DRN-1146080
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds decision to record an incident 
he notified them of on the Central Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. Mr B reported 
the incident while he held a car insurance policy with CIS. 
What happened
Mr B called CIS in March 2019 and reported a minor car collision with another driver. Mr B 
thought the other driver might claim for damage which was already pre-existing. CIS said it 
would record the incident as a notification and if it didnt hear from the third party in four 
months, it would close its file. 
In August 2019 Mr B complained to CIS after he renewed his policy elsewhere. He said his 
premium had gone up because of the incident. He wanted CIS to remove it. But CIS said it 
had correctly recorded the incident on CUE and in line with the policy agreement to do so. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. He said there was no impact between the vehicles. 
Our investigator listened to a recording of the notification call between Mr B and CIS. She 
was satisfied that based on what Mr B said, CIS had correctly recorded the incident on CUE 
as a notification. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he has letters from his current insurer confirming he issue has 
been resolved. He says CIS were wrong to add the incident to CUE. 
In October 2019 our investigator told Mr B if he had any further evidence he wanted us to 
consider, to send it to us. 
In July 2020 Mr B told the investigator that things have since changed and CIS and his 
current insurer told him the incident wasnt correctly recorded and CIS has removed it. But 
he said that CIS hasnt removed it and Mr B is still paying more for his policy than he should 
be. Mr B is concerned that the ombudsman reviewing his case wont be aware of this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure Mr B Ive listened to the call between him and the investigator. However, this is 
new information and if Mr B is unhappy that CIS has told him it recorded the claim incorrectly 
but hasnt removed it, he will need to raise it first with CIS as a new complaint. So it wont 
form part of my decision.  
Mr Bs complaint that Ive considered is that CIS incorrectly recorded an incident he reported 
on CUE in March 2019. 
Mr Bs policy with CIS has a term which isnt unusual and can be found in most motor 
insurance policies Ive seen. It said:
Claims and Underwriting Exchange and Other Registers and Databases - We, the 
insurer and/or the re-insurer exchange information with various databases and 
registers to help us check information provided, to detect and prevent crime or fraud 
and to obtain information about your no claims history. These may include the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange Register, the Hunter Database, the Motor Insurance 
Anti-Fraud and Theft Register, the No Claims History Database and any other 
relevant industry databases or registers. Under the conditions of your policy, you 
must tell us about any incident (such as accident or theft) which may give rise to a 
claim whether or not a claim is made. When you tell us about an incident, we or the 
insurer will pass this information to the registers and any other relevant registers.
A recording of the call Mr B made to CIS when he reported the incident confirms that he 
advised that a minor impact had occurred. As no claim was made by either party, CIS 
therefore correctly recorded the incident as a notification. 
I understand Mr B will be very disappointed with my decision. But from what Ive seen, I think 
CIS has treated Mr B fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. 
So Im not asking CIS to remove the incident. I think CIS correctly recorded the notification in 
line with the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman