DRN-3679947
The complaint
Mr L is concerned about how Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) meets its 
responsibilities under regulatory rules which require it to keep safe custody of clients 
money and assets. Mr L refers to these as control issues and he complains that IISL 
failed to address questions he asked about this when it took longer than expected to 
transfer his ISA and trading account to IISL and, for some of that time, his money wasnt 
accounted for. 
Mr L said he wasnt particularly interested in disputing compensation but he wanted some 
answers about control issues which he believes must have failed at IISL and may continue 
to fail if he or any other investors want to make further transfers.
What happened
Mr L had a trading account with a third party financial business I will refer to as A. He 
wanted to transfer his trading account and a stocks and shares ISA held with A to IISL and 
he started the process on 18 June 2021 by instructing A accordingly. Ultimately, it took 
around three months to complete the transfer and there were times when Mr Ls assets 
didnt appear on either A or IISLs systems. Mr L said this caused him many sleepless 
nights. 
When Mr L complained to IISL it set out in some detail the timeline of events. A admitted 
responsibility for some of the delays during the transfer process and it didnt follow the 
procedure it had agreed with IISL when it failed to email IISL to confirm re-registration. For 
its part, IISL admitted that it had added to the delays due to the confusion in the stock being 
transferred, so it upheld this aspect of Mr Ls complaint. By way of an apology for the 
inconvenience it caused, IISL credited Mr Ls trading account with £30. 
Mr L didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things  especially bearing in mind that hed 
written to directors at IISL about his concerns and not had any response from them. Whilst 
Mr L said he appreciated delays were quite normal and acceptable if clients were kept 
informed, it wasnt acceptable if clients assets werent accounted for - in his case, for almost 
a month. He said not only was it stressful worrying if theyd been lost, but this also made him 
anxious about what would happen in the event of insolvency or if he needed to sell assets in 
an emergency situation. So Mr L brought his complaint to us and one of our investigators 
looked into what happened.
Our investigator was sympathetic but didnt feel she had seen enough to be able to uphold 
Mr Ls complaint. In very brief summary, she explained that our role is to decide if IISL did 
something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably, not to express a view on hypothetical 
scenarios. She didnt think IISL had made a mistake when Mr L couldnt see money in his 
account. So she wasnt recommending IISL should pay any further compensation over and 
above the £30 it had paid already. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigator. He provided extracts from the rules set out in the Client 
Assets Sourcebook (CASS rules) along with some detailed notes explaining why he felt 
IISL had failed to properly reconcile its internal records and accounts to ensure 
completeness and accuracy as it was required to do. He remains concerned that he hasnt 
had a response from IISLs finance director, or any of IISLs other senior directors, and hes 
worried IISLs existing controls for looking after clients money are insufficient. Mr L believes 
that had he not escalated his complaint, his holdings could have remained unreconciled 
indefinitely, risking him being out of pocket and/or unable to trade.  
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr L  I can completely understand that whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for him. The transfer he arranged essentially comprised his life 
savings and was for a very significant amount. IISL has admitted there were some poor 
service issues on its part which compounded delays during the transfer process. But having 
thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the same 
overall conclusions as our investigator. 
I want to assure Mr L that Ive carried out an independent review and considered everything 
that both parties have told me. This includes reading and considering the document he sent 
in response to the investigators view with his comments and thoughts attached, which he 
particularly wanted me to take into account.
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues 
I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome. Whilst I might not mention everything 
Mr L has brought to my attention, and sometimes I will refer to what hes said using my own 
words, I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
Its my understanding that the crux of Mr Ls complaint is that in the absence of any 
response from IISLs directors about its CASS compliance measures, he cant be assured 
about the safety of his holdings. He remains worried, not only about what happened during 
the transfer process that triggered his complaint, but also the impact on him of what could 
have gone wrong and what might happen in future if his concerns about IISLs processes for 
ensuring compliance with CASS requirements are well-founded. Mr L has supplied a press 
article highlighting what he feels are similar circumstances to his own where the transfer 
delay was shorter but significantly more compensation was reportedly offered for distress 
and inconvenience and lost financial returns. 
I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling about how things could have been worse for him and 
why he would like to feel reassured about the way IISL looks after all its investors accounts 
and implements appropriate internal controls to ensure it meets all its responsibilities set out 
in CASS. But I cant award compensation for hypothetical issues that didnt happen as its 
not within the remit of this service to do so. And its the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) who is responsible for ensuring compliance with regulatory rules and taking 
action against firms that fail to meet required regulatory standards. So these arent aspects 
of his complaint that I am able to address.
I can tell IISL to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am satisfied that 
IISL did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this led to Mr L suffering 
some detriment and/or financial loss. So thats what Im concentrating on in my decision.Mr L put things this way: ..in my letters to the directors I made it very clear that my assets 
according to (A) had been transferred and that they had an obligation to reconcile and 
account for these or..return these to (A) so they could account for them 
To try and assist Mr L, our investigator asked IISL to tell us more about its processes for 
keeping track of clients assets. IISL explained it holds funds with a third party which 
provides settlement and clearing services for multiple brokers and delay receiving 
information from A held things up. IISL said it acted promptly on receipt of the information it 
was waiting for. IISL also explained why the lack of a direct relationship with the fund 
manager for the funds meant IISL wouldnt have had a control issue. 
Although the transfers also involved various other financial services providers, in this 
complaint Im looking at the way IISL managed its part of the process. If Mr L feels he has 
further cause for complaint (that goes beyond the scope of this complaint about IISL), then 
he should first tell each financial business what his concerns are, so they have an 
opportunity to respond. If he still feels unhappy after that, he may be able to bring a new 
complaint to this service. We cant award redress for any complaint where the financial 
business hasnt first been given a chance to put things right.  
The way IISL manages complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity that we can look into. But 
I can consider the service IISL provided to Mr L in connection with this matter generally and 
the extent to which IISL was responsible for delay. 
The investigator set out a detailed timeline of events and neither party has taken issue with 
the background facts as she set them out. So I dont feel I need to repeat information that 
the parties havent disputed or say much more about how the delay happened. In brief 
summary, its my understanding that Mr L had shares IISL could not hold or trade 
(unsupported assets). This meant additional work was needed and inevitably added to the 
time the transfers would take. For instance, Mr Ls further instructions had to be obtained 
and relayed to the parties involved, sales needed to happen and new valuations had to be 
done on occasions throughout the transfer process. Communications between everyone 
involved didnt always happen on a timely basis. So its clear to me that the transfer of 
Mr Ls holdings was not straightforward. And Ive thought carefully about IISLs part in all 
this and what IISL should fairly and reasonably do to put things right in these 
circumstances.  
Mr L was understandably very worried when he was unable to see his assets accounted for 
either on his new IISL account or his old account with A. I appreciate why he wanted an 
urgent explanation and assurances from IISLs directors about this and hes unhappy with 
the amount of chasing he felt necessary  and the fact he still hasnt had the responses he 
feels hes entitled to expect to receive in response to the complaint hes made. 
IISL explained it has a customer service team and a complaints team for dealing with 
customer issues and said it provided updates and replied to Mr Ls secure messages within 
the specified response times set out in their service level agreement. IISL provided evidence 
to show it attempted unsuccessfully to contact Mr L on 21, 22 and 24 September 2021 to 
discuss matters with him before sending its written response to his complaint. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect the company directors involved in running IISL to get involved with 
particular issues arising on individual accounts when they had already established specialist 
teams whose specific role was to investigate and address client queries and complaints. It 
seems likely to me that the people in those teams would probably be best placed to explain 
what happened, given that investigating problems and taking steps to put things right is a 
key part of their job role. And as far as I can see, IISL did make reasonable attempts to get 
in touch with Mr L to discuss his concerns. The fact that the directors still havent responded 
to him in person isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint. IISL didnt get everything right, as it admitted. There was confusion about the stock being 
transferred when IISL sent Mr L a list of holdings which included some assets he didnt hold. 
IISL explained that was an administrative error. Mr L didnt recognise all the assets listed 
and followed this up with IISL when corrections were done and the matter was able to 
progress. So I cant fairly say that IISLs error had a significant impact on the delay Mr L 
experienced overall. As far as I can see, IISL generally responded to Mr Ls secure 
messages within a reasonable time and the bulk of the overall delay wasnt due to IISLs 
handling of the matter  rather, the complications of Mr Ls holdings, the involvement of a 
nominee business as well as a third party financial business instructed by A and admitted 
shortcomings on the part of A all added to the time it took to complete the transfer. 
I've taken into account that although Mr L has said the £30 compensation IISL paid for this 
isnt his main focus, hes also said that the amount is tiny in comparison to the distress this 
issue has caused. But I find that the £30 paid by IISL is broadly fair and reasonable to 
reflect the limited impact on Mr L of its own shortcomings in the service it provided during 
the transfer process. It reflects the amount I would expect IISL to pay in these 
circumstances. If IISL hadnt already volunteered this payment, I cant fairly say that I have 
seen enough to make me think it would be fair and reasonable to award any more than £30.  
And whilst Mr L sent 30 or so messages and made up to 10 phone calls, and its clear he 
spent a lot of time chasing the transfer, for the reasons I have explained, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask IISL to make any additional payment here. 
I havent seen enough to show that Mr L suffered any direct financial loss as a result of the 
transfer delay that IISL was responsible for.  
So, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, Im satisfied IISL dealt with his complaint fairly and 
Im not telling it to take any further action.
I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mr L hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint has 
been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
As Interactive Investor Services Limited has already done everything I would expect it to do 
to put things right for Mr L, I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman