DRN-3806281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain esure Insurance Limited have unfairly declined their buildings 
insurance claim,
All references to esure also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
From checking weather records I can see high wind speeds, of up to 44 mph, were 
recorded in Mr and Mrs Bs postcode around the time of incident. Our service 
wouldnt consider these speeds strong enough to be defined as a storm. So, I agree 
storm conditions werent met, and the claim would not be valid under the Storm peril 
in the policy.
However, Mr and Mrs B have Accidental Damage cover included in their policy. I can 
see this provides cover for single, sudden, unexpected and physical damage which 
was not deliberate. I cant see anything that persuades me fences would be excluded 
from cover under this section of the policy  or that esure have considered this 
section of the policy when assessing Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
esure have cited an exclusion in the policy that says damage to fences caused by a 
storm wont be covered. I think the exclusion is set out clearly in the documentation. 
However, it has already established storm conditions were not present, so Im not 
persuaded this exclusion is relevant here. 
Mr and Mrs B have identified the weather conditions at the time as the cause of the 
damage.  As Ive set out above, I agree storm conditions havent been met. But while 
there was no storm, a cause of damage has been identified. And its fair for esure to 
consider all cover provided by the policy when deciding the outcome of a claim. 
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
To put things right, I direct esure Insurance Limited to reconsider the claim under the 
Accidental Damage section of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman