DRN-3620166
The complaint
Mr S complains that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) unfairly declined a claim on his home 
insurance for items stolen during a theft.
QIC used a third party company to handle Mr Ss claim and most of his correspondence has 
been with this company rather than directly with QIC. For the avoidance of doubt, any 
reference to QIC includes its agents, including the claims handling company.
What happened
Mr S had a QIC home insurance policy. The policy covered contents in his garage (used as 
a workshop). On 2 February 2021, he noticed the black plastic sheet that hung across the 
garage window was on the floor and the window was unlocked. Mr S assumed hed left the 
window open but later discovered some of his tools were missing. He reported the break-in 
to police.
Mr S says a police officer came to his property on 4 February 2021 and tried to take 
fingerprints from the window frame. When Mr S was cleaning up after the officers work a 
few days later, he says he noticed white tape concealing a hole in the window frame. He 
also found more tools were missing. 
Mr S reported the break-in and theft to QIC on 8 February 2021. Based on Mr Ss initial 
comments  specifically, that there was no damage to the garage window  QIC told Mr S it 
intended to decline the claim. It appointed a surveyor to inspect the garage window. The 
surveyor concluded:
The window was incorrectly installed and not fit for its intended purpose.
There was damage to the window frame.
Mr S told him the thieves had used a cordless drill to remove a small section from the 
window frame, then use a cable or wire to lift the window handle, and conceal this 
damage with white tape.
In the surveyors opinion, this would be a very elaborate and long-winded and noisy 
way to gain entry.
Following the surveyors report, QIC maintained its decision to decline Mr Ss claim. It said, 
in summary:
Mr S initially said hed left the window unlocked and there was no damage to the 
window frame.
As there was no forced entry to the property it wouldnt accept the claim.
Its surveyor found significant damage around the window frame.
This damage was made after Mr Ss initial claim to meet the policy requirements.
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He doesnt agree that 
the window wasnt fitted correctly or that it had been drilled from the inside, and is angry that 
QIC has accused him of fraud. He also says QIC initially told him he had a valid claim. He 
wants QIC to settle his claim in full and replace the items stolen.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that QICs conclusions about how the window was damaged were persuasive, and its 
decision to decline the claim was reasonable.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC highlighted three sections of Mr Ss policy as basis for declining his claim:
1. Section 2.5 of the policy booklet (Theft or attempted theft). This says a policyholder 
is covered following forced and violent entry to your home. QIC said Mr S wasnt 
covered because the window was left unlocked  in other words, there was no forced 
or violent entry.
2. Endorsement 7 on Mr Ss policy schedule (Theft and malicious damage excluded if 
security requirement not met). This says QIC wont pay for loss unless the locks 
declared in your insurance application are put into full and effective use. As Mr S 
initially said the garage window was unlocked, this policy condition wasnt met.
3. Section 6 of the policy booklet (Fraud). This says QIC doesnt have to pay out in the 
event of a fraudulent claim.
First, its not for me to decide if this was a fraudulent claim. Instead, I have to decide whether 
QICs decision to decline the claim was reasonable. So Im going to focus on QICs main 
reason for declining the claim  the garage window was left unlocked.
Its a condition of Mr Ss policy  as with many insurance policies  that window locks must 
be fastened when the property is left unattended or when everyone in the home has gone to 
bed for the night.
Ive listened to all the calls between QIC and Mr S. During the calls on 8 and 9 February 
2021, Mr S was clear that there wasnt any damage to the garage window. Ive also 
reviewed the surveyors and Mr Ss photos. These show significant damage around the 
window frame and show the tape around the frame. In my opinion, both the damage and the 
tape would have been seen by any close inspection of the window. So I might reasonably 
have expected either Mr S or the investigating police officer to see this when they first 
examined the window. Also, I might reasonably have expected Mr S to check this very 
carefully and be sure there was no damage to the window/window frame before he called 
either the police or QIC. So I think it was reasonable for QIC to rely on Mr Ss initial 
statement that the window wasnt damaged.
I dont think Mr S has done enough to show QICs conclusion was wrong. For example, he 
hasnt sent us the police report or obtained an independent inspection of the damage to 
challenge QICs expert. Instead, hes questioned the surveyors findings and thoroughness 
of the inspection, and says it was the surveyor  not he  who came up with the theory on 
how thieves might have broken into his garage. I dont think those points are enough to show 
me that QICs findings were wrong.
I understand why Mr S is unhappy that QIC wont accept his claim. But, for the reasons Ive 
set out above, Im satisfied that its decision to decline the claim was reasonable.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman