DRN-3726415
The complaint
Mrs G complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly turned down 
her claim when she was too unwell to work.
Mrs Gs complaint is brought on her behalf by a representative, but for ease, I will refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mrs G herself.
What happened
Mrs G works in the legal profession and is a beneficiary of her firms group income protection 
policy underwritten by L&G. The policy is designed to pay a benefit in the event of illness or 
injury, following a 52 week deferred period. 
Mrs G became absent from work following an accident in April 2019 in which she sustained 
head injuries. She began a phased return to work in May 2019, and was working her full time 
hours again by August the same year. However soon after, Mrs G reduced her hours again 
due to fatigue. And said she was unable to work the same number of hours she had prior to 
the accident. 
A claim was submitted via Mrs Gs employer in June 2020. In her claim form, Mrs G stated 
she was working around half of her usual hours and said the symptoms preventing her from 
working more than this were impaired cognitive function, cognitive fatigue and headaches. 
She said after working for a couple of hours, she would suffer cognitive fatigue which would 
worsen with further work, and caused bad headaches. She said she tended to work in the 
mornings when she was better able to function and also that the symptoms caused her 
anxiety in certain work situations, due to memory issues and being unable to find the right 
words to use when speaking. 
Ive reviewed the medical evidence including a report from a Consultant Neurologist in 
August 2019, which reflects Mrs G had reported frequent headaches that are exacerbated 
by exercise, screen use and are associated with nausea and can throb. When she overdoes 
it she has quite marked fatigue.. And she feels that her cognition has not returned to 
normal. She has poor concentration, memory lapses and has difficulty with calculation and 
slower processing speed. She is managing a difficult job however and thinks things are 
improving.. The consultant said his neurological examinations of Mrs G showed a normal 
result. However he went on to say that the circumstances of her accident suggested a mild 
traumatic brain injury. He said he would arrange a scan to investigate her symptoms as well 
as a neuro psychology assessment. Also, he prescribed an increasing dose of a medication 
to help with her headaches. And concluded that he thought Mrs G would make a full 
recovery in the fullness of time. 
In November 2019, a report from a neuropsychologist stated their assessment showed Mrs 
G had reduced attention and concentration, inefficient recall of new material, a mild 
reduction in executive function and slightly reduced processing speed. And said this was 
characteristic of a mild to moderate head injury. She said these symptoms were relatively 
mild, but would be exacerbated by working long hours or when fatigued. She said Mrs G 
would need to expend greater effort on tasks she would normally accomplish with ease, 
which would result in fatigue. The doctor recommended Mrs G continue to work reduced 
hours and said she thought her performance would continue to improve. 
And Ive looked at a further report written in April 2020, by a Consultant in Brain Injury 
Medicine, who met with Mrs G in January 2020, and reviewed the other medical reports on 
her condition. His opinion was that Mrs G had made a good recovery, and he thought there 
was still scope for further recovery over the following year. He said Mrs Gs perception of her 
performance at work was causing her stress. And he recommended further psychological 
treatment. He said he agreed with an earlier report which recommended Mrs G working 
shorter days due to her fatigue. 
The policy cover for incapacity in this case is own occupation which is defined within the 
policy terms as follows. 
means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him 
from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of 
the deferred period. 
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation 
will be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him.
L&G declined the claim in October 2020. It said it had seen insufficient evidence to support 
that Mrs G was significantly functionally impaired throughout the 52 week deferred period.
Mrs G complained to L&G. It said it had reviewed all of the medical evidence supplied, and 
its decision, and it maintained the claim should be declined, as it didnt think Mrs G was 
incapacitated for the duration of the policy deferred period. 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mrs G brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened. And said they didnt think L&G had unfairly declined 
the claim. 
L&G made no comment on the investigators view. However Mrs G disagreed and asked for 
a decision from an ombudsman. In summary she said although she didnt have contractual 
hours, she had been working a much lower number of hours than prior to her accident. She 
said shed been unable to do all the elements of her role and was avoiding some tasks or 
situations due to cognitive issues. She said a colleague was checking her work and she had 
been unable to check work for others as she had done previously. 
As Mrs G disagreed with the investigators view, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say L&G has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive reviewed the policy terms of incapacity, alongside the available medical evidence, 
descriptions of Mrs Gs working during the deferred period and L&Gs reasoning, including 
the opinion of its medical officer. Having done so, I dont think it was unfair for L&G to 
decline the claim. And Ill explain why. Ive considered the points made about the number of hours Mrs G had worked prior 
to her accident, and those completed during the deferred period. Whilst I appreciate 
that she had been working a far greater number of hours prior to her accident, I dont 
think this in itself demonstrates that she met the policy definition of incapacity. 
The descriptions of Mrs Gs working during the deferred period reflect that she has 
been undertaking her role, albeit with adjustments put in place by her employer. 
These have included another member of staff supervising some of her work. So Im 
not persuaded that she is unable to complete the material and substantial duties of 
her occupation  rather I think she was able to complete these, with the adjustments 
her employer had put in place. 
Mrs Gs employer has listed some elements of the role she has not been fulfilling 
herself or with the adjustments. However the policy wording stipulates own 
occupation and not specified occupation in this case. So Im persuaded it is the 
generic duties of Mrs Gs role that are relevant, rather than all of the individual tasks 
of her specific job, as these could differ in another workplace or with a different 
employer.  
To make a successful claim, Mrs G would need to demonstrate she met the policy 
definition of incapacity for the duration of the full 52 week deferred period. I accept 
the medical evidence supports Mrs G was unable to work at the start of the deferred 
period, immediately following her accident. However, this was not the case for the full 
deferred period. And the medical evidence persuades me that her condition was 
improving during the course of that year. Mrs G began a phased returned to work 
with the support of her treating consultants. And the medical report from August 
2019, which was around four months into the deferred period, reflects that Mrs G 
herself thought she was improving, her neurological examinations were normal, and 
her consultant expected a full recovery. 
Whilst I can understand Mrs Gs position around her lower number of working hours 
due to the way she is paid, policies such as this are not designed to cover all 
eventualities.  Although I appreciate her income has been impacted, I cant fairly say 
that her claim should be paid, as the policy terms of incapacity havent been met. 
L&Gs medical officer had made a link between Mrs Gs fatigue preventing her from working 
longer hours, and the running activities shed taken part in outside of work during the 
deferred period. However I dont think its necessary for me to make a finding on this, as Im 
already persuaded it was fair for L&G to conclude Mrs G didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity for the reasons above.
Whilst I sympathise with the circumstances of Mrs Gs accident and associated recovery, the 
assessment of incapacity for this claim is based on the policy definition. And the medical 
evidence Ive seen hasnt sufficiently persuaded me that Mrs Gs functional capacity was 
limited to the extent she was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her 
occupation, for the duration of the 52 week deferred period.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman