DRN-2540646
The complaint
Mr A and Mr S complain that Santander UK Plc gave them incorrect information about a 
change in borrower application. They ask for compensation. Mrs S, a family member, has 
represented Mr A and Mr S in bringing this complaint. 
What happened
Mr A and his ex-partner had a joint mortgage with Santander. After they separated, Mr A 
wanted to remain in the property with his children. This would mean removing his ex-partner 
from the mortgage account and paying her a share of the equity. In order for the mortgage to 
be affordable, Mr S (a family member) agreed to be on the mortgage account.
When it was asked about this in May 2019 Santander said Mr S could be on the mortgage 
account without also being on the property title. Mr A and Mr S said the divorce settlement 
was agreed on this basis. When they made the change of borrower application in August 
2019 Santander said Mr S would have to be on the property title. He paid stamp duty land 
tax (SDLT) of more than £3,000. He might also incur capital gains tax (CGT) if the propertys 
value increases before its sold. Mr A and Mr S said the agreement for the divorce settlement 
would have been different if theyd been told Mr S would have to be on the title in May 2019.
Santander accepted it had given incorrect information to Mr A and Mr S in May 2019 and 
paid £100 compensation. Our investigator said this wasnt enough and Santander should 
pay a further £200 for the distress caused at what was already a difficult time. He said he 
didnt think Mr A and Mr S would have acted differently if theyd been given correct 
information in May, and it wasnt fair to require Santander to compensate Mr S for the SDLT 
or possible CGT.
Mr A and Mr S didnt agree. Mrs S said by the time Santander gave them correct information 
the divorce settlement had been signed by Mr A and his ex-partner and they were waiting for 
court approval. Agreeing the settlement had been extremely stressful and it wouldnt have 
been acceptable for Mr A to pull out at the last minute. 
Mrs S said if theyd known Mr S would have to be on the property title, theyd have looked at 
other options, such as selling the house or Mr As ex-partner living in the house with the 
children. She said the settlement agreement would have been negotiated entirely differently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Santander says it cant provide a recording of Mrs Ss call in May 2019, it doesnt 
dispute that it gave her the wrong information. It gave Mr A and Mr S correct information in 
early August 2019. Santander said Mr S did have to go onto the property title in order to be 
on the mortgage account. This meant he paid SDLT of about £3,000. If the property 
increases in value he might have to pay CGT on any gains. 
I dont think its fair to say that Santander should have honoured the incorrect information, 
against its own lending policy. Its error wasnt that it didnt offer a joint mortgage while the 
property was in Mr As sole name. Its error was not giving Mr A and Mr S correct information 
about this in May 2019.
Mrs S says they asked Santander about this in May 2019 so theyd have the information 
they needed before Mr A agreed his divorce settlement. I dont doubt this. I also dont doubt 
that Mr A and Mr S took what they were told into account when considering what to do. 
Mrs S says an entirely different consent order would have been negotiated if theyd have the 
correct information in May. Mr S wouldnt have gone onto the mortgage account. Mr A 
wouldnt have stayed in the house. They might have sold the house. Or Mr As ex-partner 
might have taken over the house and mortgage.
What I must now decide is what, if anything, Mr A and Mr S would have done differently, if 
theyd been given the correct information in May 2019. In doing so, Ive taken the following 
into account.
While the divorce settlement was agreed between Mr A and his ex-partner in June 2019, 
it wasnt approved by the court until October 2019. Mrs S says it would have been 
difficult for Mr A to re-open discussions with his ex-partner, and I understand this. But it 
was possible. 
The change of names on the mortgage and the property title completed in December 
2019. There was time between August and December 2019 for Mr A to look into other 
ways to remove Mr As ex-partner from the mortgage account, such as selling the 
property.
Mr A wouldnt have met affordability criteria for a sole mortgage. Santander wouldnt 
have agreed to remove his ex-partner from the mortgage account if the result was the 
mortgage being in Mr As sole name.
Mr A and his ex-partner had taken out a fixed interest rate product in 2018. If the 
mortgage had been repaid in 2019 an early repayment charge of about £4,300 would 
have applied. It likely there would have been other costs involved in selling the property, 
such as estate agents fees.
While Mr S says he might have to pay capital gains tax if the value of the property 
increases, its likely hell have the benefit of the annual CGT allowance. 
By adding Mr S to the mortgage account, Mr A was able to remain the owner and 
occupier of his house. Mrs S says they were advised this was best for the children as 
theyd keep some stability in their home life.
Mrs S has said Mr As ex-partner wasnt in a position to take over the mortgage account 
and (presumably) make a lump sum payment to Mr A for his share of the equity.
Mr and Mrs S were willing and able to help Mr A  indeed, Mr S was willing to take joint and 
several liability for the mortgage debt without benefit to himself. I appreciate that, initially, he 
didnt expect to have to pay SDLT as well.
However, it seems to me there were costs and downsides to all potential options here. In 
particular, selling the property would have meant Mr A paying an ERC and moving out of his 
home. I dont think theres sufficient evidence that Mr A and Mr S would have done things differently 
or that, overall, theyd have been better off financially if they had. In the circumstances, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to pay compensation for the SDLT 
costs or potential CGT.
Putting things right
I do think that being given the wrong information caused considerable upset for Mr A and 
Mr S, at an already difficult time. I think its right that Santander pays compensation for this. 
Overall, I think £300 (£200 in addition to the £100 Santander has already paid) is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK PLC to pay £200 to Mr A 
and Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman