DRN-3245151
The complaint
Mr H complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly increased the 
interest rates on this credit card account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, for these reasons:
We dont have the power to tell American Express how to conduct their business, or 
what interest rates they should charge. This means we cannot tell them how to carry 
out reviews on their customers accounts. However, what we can make a finding on 
is whether Mr H was treated fairly. And for me to say he wasnt, Id need to be 
satisfied other customers of American Express, with similar circumstances, would 
have/have been treated differently.
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Hs credit card explain interest rates and 
fees can be changed over the lifetime of the account. In particular, this can happen 
when American Express have good reason to think that a change in your 
circumstances or generally means that the risk that you might not be able to repay us 
has increased. So, Im satisfied this is something American Express could consider 
doing, and something Mr H ought to have been aware of. So, I next had to consider if 
American Express did what Id expect before increasing Mr Hs interest rates.
When changing interest rates, credit card companies like American Express, must do 
so in line with the regulations set out in The Consumer Credit Source Book (CONC). 
This says interest rates cannot be increased if the customer is experiencing financial 
difficulties. Mr Hs own testimony confirms he took steps to manage his account well 
and pay his full balance each month. So, I cant fairly say American Express were 
prohibited from increasing his interest rates for this reason.
CONC 6.7.14 says interest rates cant be increased without a valid reason. And 
CONC 6.7.15 gives examples of valid reasons. The relevant example in this case is 
where theres a change in risk presented by the customer which justifies the change 
in interest rate, which would not generally include missing a single repayment or 
failing to repay in full on one or two occasions. Given the detail in CONC, and Mr Hs 
testimony about his management of his account, American Express could increase 
his interest rate. I should also stress that the terms of his credit card account explain 
interest can change if American Express generally thinks a customer poses a 
different level of risk  not just when the level of risk changes due to a change in 
circumstances. American Express has confirmed their review considered multiple 
factors. And the results of that review indicated a different interest rate needed to be 
applied to Mr Hs account. Its not for us to say which factors American Express 
should consider, or the weight to be placed on them. Ive not seen any evidence to 
show other customers (with similar circumstances to Mr H) are charged differently. 
So, in the absence of this, I cant agree his account had an incorrect interest rate 
applied to it following the review. 
When increasing interest rates CONC says a business should:
oGive the customer 60 days notice.
oAllow the customer to pay off the outstanding balance before the increase, 
and over a reasonable period.
oTell the customer the increase has been based on a change in risk.
oIf requested by the customer, provide a suitable explanation which can be a 
generic explanation for such increases.
In mid-July 2021, American Express sent Mr H a letter about his interest rates 
changing. Having read that letter, Im satisfied it covered the points detailed above. 
I appreciate Mr H would like to know the specifics around what caused the increase. 
However, American Express arent obligated to provide that. Their letter explained 
they regularly review accounts to determine whether there is a greater likelihood that 
certain Cardmembers might not be able to repay us. And I consider this explanation 
is in line with what they were expected to provide under CONC. 
For these reasons, while I appreciate Mr Hs frustrations, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint about American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman