DRN-3977031
The complaint
Mr E complains Aviva Insurance Limited handled a home emergency repair poorly.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr E made a claim on his Aviva home emergency policy. An internal stop 
valve (ISV) on his homes water system wasnt working properly. Avivas engineer fitted a 
new one, leaving the old one in place. 
In May 2022 Mr E had some new taps fitted. He found the water pressure to be low. His own 
plumber advised him to loosen the old ISV. He did as suggested. Unfortunately it resulted in 
water leaking from the old ISV.  He was unable to have it repaired until the following 
morning, so had to spend the night emptying vessels to prevent water damage.     
Mr E says Avivas engineer should have removed the ISV in 2020. He feels as they didnt it 
should cover the cost of fixing the latest leak - £75 - and pay him compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. 
In July 2022 Aviva responded to a complaint from Mr E. It didnt agree it had made a poor 
repair. It said he had been happy with the work in October 2020.  It said its work had 
alleviated the emergency and its 12-month guarantee had now expired. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She wasnt persuaded Aviva had done anything 
wrong. So she didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mr E didnt accept that outcome, 
so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr E or Aviva provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Im not a plumbing expert, so Ive considered the expert evidence thats been provided. 
Avivas technician feels theres nothing wrong with the ISV being left in place - as it wasnt 
leaking, restricting flow or causing any contamination issue. Mr E reports his plumber being 
astonished that it had been. Although, he doesnt seem to have given an explanation for why 
it should have been removed. 
As its been provided directly, and with greater explanation, Im more persuaded by Avivas 
technicians submission, than Mr Es account of his plumbers opinion. 
Id expect an insurer to make a lasting and effective repair. What that means varies 
depending on the nature of the problem. The old ISV was seized, not allowing Mr B to turn 
the water supply on and off. The October 2020 repair allowed him to do that. So it seems to 
have been effective at the time as it fixed the emergency. There were no other issues Im 
aware of, such as leaks. So, considering that, and Avivas technicians view, it seems 
reasonable for the old one to have been left in place. 
It wasnt until 18 months later when Mr E tried to open the ISV that he experienced further 
problems. And during that time he had new taps fitted  a possible intervening event. So I 
consider the new issue to be too remote from Avivas involvement to be able to reasonably 
say it was responsible  or that the repair wasnt lasting.
So having considered everything I cant fairly say Avivas repair wasnt lasting and effective 
or that it treated Mr E unfairly or unreasonably.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not going to require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything 
differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman