DRN-3458832
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complain about advice provided by Lloyd Bank PLC (Lloyds.)
What happened
Mr F and Mrs F sought investment advice from Lloyds and met with an adviser twice in April 
2007. At the time they held joint funds on deposit of over £60,000 and were looking to get a 
better return on some savings. Mr F and Mrs F were advised to invest £13,000 each split 
between ISAs and OEICs. 
Mr F and Mrs F maintain that the timing of the investment was inappropriate for them and 
they were exposed to more risk than they wanted to take.
Lloyds say that Mr F and Mrs F were assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk and 
they were advised to invest in a balanced fund, namely the Dynamic Income Portfolio. 
Lloyds consider that the recommendation was suitable as Mr F and Mrs F retained £47,500 
on account and a retained a joint disposable income of £755 a month. Lloyds did not accept 
that Mr F and Mrs F invested at the wrong time as the funds remained invested for five years 
and income was taken across the full duration of investment. Overall, Lloyds maintained that 
the recommendation was suitable for Mr F and Mrs Fs circumstances.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He took into account 
that Mr F and Mrs F were investing to achieve additional income and potential growth. The 
underlying funds were broken down with 35% in UK based equities and 65% in bonds. Also, 
Mr F and Mrs F retained £47,670 in saving, along with £755 in disposable income a month. 
In light of these factors, our investigator considered that the commendation was in line with 
Mr F and Mrs Fs objectives and risk profile. Further, our investigator thought Mr F and Mrs F 
had the capacity to make up any losses. There was nothing to show that Mr F and Mrs F 
were under any obligation to proceed with the advice given.
Those acting on behalf of Mr F and Mrs F disagree with the view. They say that the 
information recorded in the fact find was contradictory and accordingly it was unlikely that 
the adviser was properly appraised of the facts so did not give best advice.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr F and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time, when considering whether the 
advice given was suitable for them. It was recorded that Mr F was self-employed and had 
recently set up his own business. Mrs F was working part-time. They were aged 59 and 56 
years respectively and intended to retire at 65 years. The reference to being retired appears 
to be an error, but in any event, it has not been disputed that they jointly held over £60,000 
on deposit, along with £3000 each in ISAs and had a disposable income of around £755 a 
month. They had no dependents and no debts. Whilst there was an outstanding mortgage 
on the residential home, Mr F and Ms F discounted the option of repaying more of their 
mortgage as they intended to downsize in the future.
Ive seen that an assessment of Mr F and Mrs Fs attitude to risk was undertaken and they 
were both said to be balanced, where:
your main requirement now is for income and growth to a lesser extent over the longer term 
but without too much volatility. You understand in general terms how risk-based investments 
work and how equity-based investments offer growth and fixed interest security-based 
investments offer income. Given their current stage in life you do not wish to invest heavily 
into funds which are geared more towards equities and I feel that the balance gives you the 
opportunity to invest into both asset types for the potential of better returns.
Mr F and Mrs F were looking to get better returns on their savings and Im satisfied that they 
were looking for some income at the time. They were advised to invest £13,000 each into 
the Dynamic Income Portfolio, split between investment into an ISA and OEIC, to be held for 
a minimum period of five to ten years. The aim of the investment was to give income with 
some potential for long-term capital growth and in my view, this was in line with Mr F and 
Mrs Fs objectives. Ive noted that Mr F and Mrs F didnt raise any concerns at the time about 
the information in the correspondence.
Overall Mr F and Mrs F were advised to invest less than a half of their funds on deposit and 
retained monthly disposable income of £755, so I find that they had capacity to meet any 
losses. Further, the invested funds were split 35/65 between UK equities and bonds. So, 
looking at the holdings overall, I dont think they were exposed to more risk than they wanted 
to take.
Whilst Mr F and Mrs F now say they should have been given more time before investing, 
theres nothing to show that they shared any information with the adviser about needing 
more time and theres nothing to show that they were pressurised to invest at this time. After 
receiving the suitability letter, they proceeded with the investment. 
Ive also seen that Mr F and Mrs F were warned that returns werent guaranteed and the 
value of their investments could fluctuate. This was addressed in the suitability letter and 
information provided in the key facts documents.
Considering these matters in the round, Im persuaded that the recommendation was 
suitable for Mr F and Mrs Fs needs and they werent exposed to more risk than they wanted 
to take.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F and Mrs F but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman