DRN-2567142
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy as he feels Lowell Portfolio I Ltd (Lowell) has harassed him when 
contacting him about an outstanding debt. 
What happened
Lowell purchased a debt from another business in 2016 which it understood Mr M was 
responsible for repaying. In November 2016 Lowell sent a letter, to the last known address 
held by the other business for Mr M, confirming it had purchased the account. The letter said 
that it was now entitled to receive repayment in respect of the account and invited Mr M to 
contact Lowell to arrange this.
Lowell has said it sent twelve further letters to the address it held, between November 2016 
and March 2018, but received no response from Mr M. 
As it hadnt heard from Mr M, Lowell carried out searches in March 2018 to see if the contact 
details it held were correct. It did this by obtaining information from credit reference 
agencies. A different address was identified for Mr M. 
Lowell has said that between March and September 2018 a further nine letters were sent to 
the newly identified address, asking Mr M to contact it to arrange repayment of this and other 
debts Lowell held in his name. The later of these letters, including one sent in July 2018, 
explained that if it didnt hear from Mr M, Lowell would consider appointing solicitors to take 
legal action.
As no response was received Lowell instructed solicitors to act on its behalf. They too wrote 
to the address that was identified by the trace Lowell carried out. Notes provided by Lowell 
indicate that Mr M initially responded to the correspondence from the solicitors, questioning 
the validity of the debt. After obtaining additional information the solicitors responded saying 
they were satisfied the debt did belong to Mr M, but invited him to submit further information 
if he still disagreed. Correspondence from the solicitors continued, including notification of 
the intention to take court action.
A county court judgement was obtained in relation to the debt in December 2019, in favour 
of Lowell. 
Mr M complained to Lowell in 2020. He disputed responsibility for the debt, said that he felt 
the court judgement had been obtained unfairly and said that he felt Lowell had harassed 
him.
Lowell said it didnt think it had done anything wrong and believed that the debt was owed by 
Mr M. It confirmed however that it had taken a business decision not to pursue the balance 
further.
Mr M then asked our service to consider his complaint.
We explained, and I issued a decision confirming, that our service was limited in what 
aspects of Mr Ms complaint it was able to consider. Specifically, we could only consider his 
argument that Lowell had harassed him through excessive communication before the court 
judgement was granted. This was because the other issues raised either fell outside of our 
jurisdiction or were ones we didnt think it was appropriate to consider.
One of our investigators considered whether Lowell had harassed Mr M. But he didnt feel it 
had done anything wrong. He said it had purchased the debt in good faith and was entitled 
to pursue repayment.
Mr M did not agree with the investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lowell purchased the debt from a separate business in 2016. The information provided to 
Lowell indicated that the balance was owed by Mr M. I dont therefore think that Lowell has 
done anything wrong by pursuing repayment of the outstanding balance or by contacting Mr 
M about this.
Between November 2016 and March 2018, Lowell indicates it sent approximately thirteen 
letters requesting repayment of the balance. I dont think that is an unreasonable amount of 
correspondence in the time frame or circumstances. 
Mr M has said that the address that was being used by Lowell when sending those letters is 
not one he recognises  suggesting he didnt in fact receive those letters. This is unfortunate 
and would explain why he didnt respond. But I dont think that means that Lowell did 
anything wrong in sending the letters in the first place or that it acted incorrectly. It used the 
address information provided by the business that it purchased the debt from, which I think 
was a reasonable approach.
As it hadnt heard from Mr M, which again may well be explained by him not recognising the 
address used, Lowell carried out a trace, to try and find alternative contact information for Mr 
M. This is common practice where there is a balance owed and where a business cant 
locate a consumer using the details they have available to them. I think Lowell acted 
reasonably when doing this  as again the information it had, provided by the business it 
purchased the debt from, indicated Mr M was responsible for the debt and he had not by that 
point responded to its requests for repayment.
Lowell then began writing to the address it received details of as part of the trace  which 
appears to be Mr Ms correct address. So given Lowell was trying to get in contact with Mr M 
it appears to have acted correctly in doing so.
Lowell says that it sent nine letters to Mr Ms address between May and September 2018. 
This is an increase in frequency when compared to the correspondence sent prior to May 
2018. But again, I dont think this was unreasonable. Lowell was pursuing a debt now owed 
to it, which it had been unsuccessful in recovering for some time. So, I dont think it was 
unfair for it to have increased its efforts. Lowell also took the decision during that period to 
appoint solicitors to assist in recovering the debt  which wouldve necessitated additional 
correspondence. So, I dont think Lowell acted unfairly in sending these letters to Mr M.
Ive seen evidence that the solicitors acting for Lowell sent further correspondence to Mr M. 
Indeed, Mr M has provided copies of a number of these letters, indicating they were 
received. I can see that the frequency of these letters increased towards the end of 2019. But as that related to court action being undertaken, I dont think this was unreasonable  as 
the solicitors were required to inform Mr M of the action being taken. Ive also seen evidence 
of several phone calls between Mr M and the solicitors. But from what Ive seen these were 
initiated by Mr M, in response to the letters he had received.
Taking everything into account, while I appreciate Mr M is unhappy with Lowell having 
contacted him at all, I think it had good reason for doing so. I dont think its attempts to 
communicate with him were unfair or excessive in the circumstances. And so, I dont think I 
can reasonably say it has harassed him when pursuing this balance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman