DRN-4433911
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd declined a terminal illness claim under her 
term assurance plan.
What happened
Miss S took out a term assurance plan, which included terminal illness benefit in 2013. In 
2019 Miss S made a terminal illness claim. He policy defines terminal illness as:
Terminal Illness
A definite diagnosis by the attending consultant of an illness that satisfied both of the 
following:
The illness either has no known cure or has progressed to the point where it cannot be 
cured; and in the opinion of the attending consultant, the illness is expected to lead to death 
within the earlier of 12 months and the remaining term of the cover.
Zurich declined the claim as it said Miss S hadnt met the policy definition. Our investigator 
considered the matter but didnt recommend that it be upheld. Miss S appealed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint and omitted sensitive medical 
details. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims fairly. So Ive 
considered, amongst other things, the policy terms, Zurichs records and the 
available medical evidence, to decide whether I think Zurich has done so in respect 
of Miss Ss claim.
It is not in dispute that Miss S had been diagnosed with cancer and was receiving 
palliative chemotherapy. Miss S has said she was at deaths door at that time, and I 
have no doubt she was going through an extremely difficult time. There is evidence 
from her attending consultant that her illness was expected to lead to her passing 
within 12 months. That was in 2017. So the second leg of the definition was met.
I appreciate that Miss S feels her claim should have been met had she made it then. 
However the first leg of the definition requires: the illness either has no known cure or 
has progressed to the point where it cannot be cured. In order to determine this 
Zurich would wait to see what the results of treatment were. That is reasonable. 
Luckily by the time she made her claim in 2019 Miss S had made a recovery. She 
says this is a miracle and as from 2022 she has been cancer free. I recognise that 
this is bittersweet for Miss S  on the one hand she is well, on the other this meant 
her claim didnt succeed as she didnt have a terminal illness that met with the policy 
definition at that time.
In all the circumstances I dont find that Zurich Assurance Ltd treated Miss S unfairly 
or unreasonably or contrary to her policy terms in declining her claim for terminal 
illness, as she didnt meet the policy definition. Im sorry my decision doesnt bring 
Miss S more welcome news.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman