DRN-3822724
The complaint
Mr S complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
JLT Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill refer to JLT. 
What happened
At the time, Mr S was a deferred member of an OPS, having worked for and accrued 
benefits with a previous employer. In 2011, Mr Ss OPS had signalled an intention to offer a 
time-limited enhancement to the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for deferred 
members like Mr S who opted to leave the scheme. Members were also being offered 
regulated financial advice, the cost of which was being met by the scheme. JLT was 
contracted to provide that advice.
Information gathered in early 2011 about Mr S was broadly as follows:
Mr S was 50 years old living with his wife and one child in a mortgaged property. 
Mr S earned approximately £36,600 (gross) a year. He and Mrs S had around £7,500 
in savings and around £10,000 of liabilities comprising credit card borrowing and an 
unsecured loan.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the OPS was £78,153. But with the 
enhancement of £3,908, this took the total CETV to £82,061.
Mr S said he wanted to retire at the age of 60 if possible, but his normal retirement 
age (NRA) was 65.
Mr S had a number of options which included leaving his pension where it was or 
transferring out of the OPS to a personal pension plan. If transferring out, Mr S was able to 
transfer the whole enhanced CETV of £82,061, or he could transfer only the £78,153 and 
have the remaining £3,908 paid to him as cash (subject to taxation). 
A recommendation letter was issued by JLT, on 3 May 2011. It recommended Mr S should 
not transfer his pension out from the OPS to a personal pension unless he was going to 
transfer the full enhanced amount. Otherwise, the recommendation was for Mr S not to 
transfer away from his OPS.
However, when asking Mr S what he wanted to do in relation to its recommendation letter, 
JLT set out a number of options on an acknowledgement slip. The options included leaving 
his pension where it was, or transferring to a default personal pension plan provider as set 
out in the original offer booklet. It said he could also transfer out of the OPS but to a provider 
that he himself wanted, rather than the default company put forward by the ceding scheme.  
A fourth option set out that Mr S could transfer out and only invest the unenhanced CETV in 
a new pension; in this case, it said he could have the remaining £3,908 paid to him directly 
as cash. However, JLT said as this was against its advice, it would need to treat Mr S as an 
insistent customer (also referred to in the industry as an insistent client). Mr S went on to 
take this option.
In 2021, Mr S complained to JLT which replied saying it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr S then referred a complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said we should uphold it. They thought JLTs recommendation to transfer the 
enhanced value to a personal pension wasnt suitable as hed be likely to receive benefits at 
retirement of an overall lower value. The investigator also thought JLT hadnt treated Mr S 
correctly when later categorising him as an insistent client.
JLT responded by saying it still believes it made the correct recommendation given how 
much Mr Ss pension could have grown by according to its analysis of that time. It also said 
he had been warned that transferring out of his OPS came with certain risks, which were 
fully explained to him. 
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this complaint in October 2022 outlining why I was 
minded to uphold it. I am now issuing a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.16 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, JLT should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. 
Having thoroughly considered all the evidence available, Im upholding this complaint.
Financial viability
The first issue I considered was whether, from a longer-term financial comparison 
perspective, transferring out of Mr Ss OPS and reinvesting his enhanced CETV was going 
to leave him with lower pension benefits overall. 
Our investigator didnt think this was a suitable recommendation on these grounds. And as 
Ive mentioned above, the regulators guidance made it clear that a transfer from such a 
scheme should only be considered if it could be clearly demonstrated that it was in Mr Ss 
best interests.
I think its fair to say that, from a financial comparison perspective, the JLT adviser ought to 
have also recognised that the benefits of transferring away from Mr Ss OPS were, at best, 
very marginal and uncertain. And given that marginality, the advice to transfer away from his 
OPS was unsuitable.
This is because the adviser had not recommended the transfer if using only the unenhanced 
CETV - but did recommend transferring on the basis of using the enhanced CETV to invest 
in a personal pension going forward. But the overall difference between these two amounts 
was only £3,908 and only a very small percentage part of the transfer value. So, in my view, 
there was no material difference between these two options, even though the JLT adviser 
clearly thought there was. 
Ive nevertheless looked very carefully at the recommendation to transfer the enhanced 
amount and whether transferring could have been said to be in Mr Ss best interests.
JLT referred in its transfer analysis to critical yield rates. The critical yield is essentially the 
average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity income as the DB scheme. It is 
therefore part of a range of different things which help show how likely it is that a personal 
pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for the transfer out to become 
financially viable.
Compared against his unenhanced CETV, JLT said the critical yield required to match Mr 
Ss benefits at the age of 65 was 7.3%. It said the critical yield was 6.9% if the enhanced 
element was added and fully invested into a new personal pension. So, in this latter case, to 
make the transfer advice for the enhanced amount suitable from a financial perspective, Id 
need to think the critical yield of 6.9% could be exceeded.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The relevant discount rate was 6.3% per year for 14 years to retirement which is below the 
critical yield figure. Its also important to remember that even parts of a percentage point, year-on-year, can make substantial differences to growth prospects in the longer-term. So, I 
think this shows the transfer was unlikely to be in Mr Ss interests. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and 
the lower projection rate 5% per year.
There would be little point in Mr S giving up the guarantees available to him through his OPS 
only to achieve, at best, broadly the same, or slightly less, level of financial benefits at 
retirement outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield was 6.9%, I need to think 
about whether Mr S was likely to receive benefits of a better or worse overall value than his 
OPS at retirement, as a result of investing in line with what JLT said his attitude to risk was.
I dont think achieving such a growth rate until retirement like this was likely  I think Mr S 
was going to receive lower benefits as a result of JLTs transferring out advice. 
JLT says that its own in-house actuaries thought a growth rate of 7.2% was achievable. Its 
not clear what this was based on, but past performance is no guarantee of future 
performance and with a discount rate of 6.3% and the regulators middle projection of 7%, I 
dont think it could be said that a transfer out was clearly in Mr Ss best interests. I think 
these figures, at best, show the future potential growth achieving the critical yield of 6.9% 
was highly uncertain  and more likely below that figure. And when comparing features such 
as ongoing charges outside the scheme, the benefits Mr S was giving up by leaving his 
scheme, and the guarantees he had around a reliable future pension income, I think a 
transfer out of the OPS wasnt in Mr Ss best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered these in detail, below.
Other issues
Ive looked carefully at Mr Ss specific circumstances and considered some other issues 
mentioned in the recommendation report to see whether the advice to transfer out was 
suitable.  
Taking a tax-free lump sum and the age Mr S could retire at. 
In this case, the way Mr Ss OPS worked meant that he was unable to take a tax-free 
lump sum when starting to draw his OPS. And hed also have to wait until he was 
aged 65 to get the full financial benefits of the scheme. These things were in part due 
to the way the Guaranteed Minimum Pension worked. 
However, Mr S was only 50 years old at the time of the advice and based on what 
Ive seen he didnt have concrete retirement plans. Ive seen the recommendation 
letter implied Mr S wanted to retire at 60, but in my view this was merely an 
aspiration at that point. As he had over 14 years before he could think about 
accessing this particular pension, I think it was much too soon to make any kind of 
decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr S to give up his guaranteed benefits at that point when he 
didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr S later had reason to 
transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so closer to retirement.
Although Ive seen a comment in the recommendation letter saying Mr S would have 
found a tax-free lump sum important, again I think this is no more than a generic comment and not directly related to his situation. Ive seen nothing in JLTs advice 
that shows why this was important or what he needed a lump-sum for.  
Death benefits 
This issue was only briefly mentioned in the recommendation letter and did not form 
a prominent part on the advice rationale. But I think the existing death benefits 
attached to the OPS in this case were underplayed. Mr S was married and so I think 
the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would have been useful to Mr Ss 
wife if he predeceased her. I dont think JLT made the value of this benefit clear 
enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
Control over his pension
Im not persuaded that Mr S expressed a desire to manage his own pension affairs 
more directly, by transferring out to a personal pension fund. Mr S was in an OPS 
managed by trustees and Ive seen no evidence he had a desire or the capacity to 
personally manage this pension going forward, rather than keeping it where it was 
and managed for him.
Was Mr S an insistent client
We now know that Mr S went against JLTs advice. Instead of investing the fully 
enhanced transfer amount, Mr S only transferred the lower CETV and he took the 
remainder as cash.
Quite rightly, our investigator pointed out that the acceptance slip Mr S was sent 
following the recommendation contained four options. Our investigator thought 
placing this on the acknowledgement slip represented JLT being too suggestive, by 
effectively raising this option when it ought not to have been raised.
However, as my findings are that JLTs recommendation was unsuitable, I dont need 
to go into detail about the insistent client issue. Thats because Mr S shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer at all. The advice should have set out the valuable 
guarantees and benefits hed be giving up. Mr S should also have been warned that 
growing his pension outside the OPS was unlikely to yield any greater benefits. The 
likelihood was that hed be worse off.
Would Mr S still have transferred anyway?
Ive considered whether, if advised properly to stay in his DB scheme, Mr S would have still 
opted to transfer out. In these circumstances, I think his view would have been quite 
different. JLTs recommendation ought to have been to remain within the OPS in both cases 
whether investing the CETV with  or without  the enhancement. 
I think such a recommendation would have been much clearer to Mr S and hed have 
realised that the benefits of the scheme just werent worth giving up. I think he was unduly 
influenced by the enhancement offer, whereas JLT should have been reminding him of how 
insignificant this was. Hes said he was intending to pay off some of his loan with the money, 
but he could have done that with savings. The real issue here was Mr S likely receiving less 
benefits at retirement and losing the valuable features his DB scheme contained in the 
meantime.
SummaryIn this decision Ive explained why Im minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S was being offered only a very small enhancement to leave the OPS he was a deferred 
member of. JLT said if he took the enhancement and invested it directly in the pension, it 
was worth doing  but if he took the enhancement as cash, it wasnt. However, Ive showed 
that the difference between these two options was marginal. JLT should have been aware 
that, from a financial comparison perspective, the chances of exceeding the critical yield rate 
consistently until retirement was highly uncertain. On this basis alone, transferring out was 
not in Mr Ss best interests as hed face retirement benefits of a lower overall value.
I have also explained that there were no other viable reasons, in my view, for Mr S to 
transfer. I accept that in his case there were some restrictions in his OPS such as accessing 
the pension earlier than 65, and also restrictions on accessing a tax-free lump sum when he 
eventually decided to take his pension benefits. But JLT provided no rationale or supporting 
evidence that Mr S needed these things. He was in a reasonable financial position and had 
access to another DB pension.
So, for the reasons above, JLTs recommendation simply wasnt a suitable one. 
Finally, I considered whether, if advised properly to stay in his DB scheme, Mr S would have 
still opted to transfer out anyway. However, I think if hed been given advice that was specific 
and clear  that he shouldnt transfer at all - I think Mr S would most likely have followed that 
advice. 
Overall, I dont think JLTs recommendation was in Mr Ss best interests. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for JLTs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.Weve previously asked Mr S whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
So, I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the outcome of the 
consultation is published, Id expect JLT to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
JLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman