DRN-2690633
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial 
Services (BOI) relates to what they say was an unauthorised transfer of funds between 
accounts resulting in a loss of interest. Additionally, they complain that incorrect names were 
used in opening of an account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had accounts with BOI. On 4 May 2017 Mr R opened an account ending 160 
with BOI in his sole name. Mr Rs forename begins with D and Mrs Rs forename begins with 
T. On 29 May 2018 two joint accounts were opened online, one ending 930 in the name of T 
and T R and into which, two days later, a sizeable amount of money transferred from 
account 160. Account 930 was seemingly opened in the wrong name, since although the 
surname of R is correct, the two forenames beginning with the letter T appear to be wrong. 
Each forename is the same but with a slightly different spelling by one letter. The second 
account opened that day was in the name of Mr D and Mrs T R. No monies were ever 
deposited or transferred into it and so it was closed by BOI after 30 days. 
In early March 2019 Mr R says he spoke with BOI and was told that the interest rate on his 
online saver account was to go down to the basic rate. So, on 12 March 2019 Mr R says 
opened a new joint account which he thought was in his and his wifes name. BOI say 
account ending 179 was opened that day but in the name of T and T R, as it was for account 
930. On 12 March 2019 all the funds from account 930 were transferred into account 179. 
On 18 March 2019 Mr and Mrs R rang BOI about account 179 asking for it to be changed 
into the name of Mr D and Mrs T R. BOI said the request had to be made in writing, but Mr R 
said hed prefer the account to be closed immediately with the monies being transferred 
back to account 930 from where they had originated so that he could then open a new joint 
account himself in his and his wifes name. The advisor Mr R was speaking to agreed and 
transferred the monies back to account 930.
Mr and Mrs R then opened a new joint account ending 247 on 5 August 2019. Two days 
later a significantly sized transfer was made from account 930 into the new account 247.
Mr and Mrs R believe that BOI transferred the monies on the 18 March to an account with a 
low interest rate and have questioned why they (Mr and Mrs R) would possibly give or want 
to give such an instruction. They believe BOI carried out the transfer without their authority 
and request that the loss in interest they suffered is paid by BOI. BOI dont feel that they 
have done anything wrong, arguing they have acted upon Mr and Mrs Rs instruction on 18 
March to return the money to account 930 from account 179. As such any loss of interest 
they say was not caused by the bank.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with BOIs final response and so approached this service to see 
if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator looked into the complaint but 
thought that BOI hadnt done anything wrong as it had followed Mr and Mrs Rs instructions. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accepted facts are that account 930 was in the name of T and T R. This is an online 
account. BOIs evidence is that as it is an online account any errors in the opening of it, 
namely the input of incorrect names is more likely to be as a result of whomever was actually 
opening the account online and entering the details. BOI say that is because it has no 
involvement in that stage of the process. 
When Mr R rang on the 18 March he said he didnt know how the error with the names had 
occurred but accepted it could have been his. I think, in the light of BOIs explanation, and 
the absence of any evidence to the contrary, it is much more likely that Mr R incorrectly 
opened the account. I also note that at the same time as this particular account was opened 
in May 2018 another account ending 789 was opened in the name of Mr D and Mrs T R but 
no funds were ever transferred into it. I think this supports the view that Mr R opened 
account 930 in error, realised what had happened and then opened another account in the 
correct names. It seems likely that Mr and Mrs R then transferred monies from account 160 
into the wrong account  that being account 930 when most likely they intended it to go into 
account 789.
Account 179 was then opened on 12 March 2019. This is also an online account opened in 
the name of T and T R and whoever entered the details when applying must be responsible 
for that error too. 
When Mr and Mrs R called BOI on 18 March they would have known account 179 was in the 
wrong name because the purpose of the call was to change the account to a joint account 
with Mr R. Having heard the call recording it is very clear that Mr R instructed the advisor to 
transfer the monies in account 179 back to the account they had come from - account 930. 
Mr R can be heard saying that it would be easier to resolve the problem of the wrongly 
named account by opening a new online account in the joint names of himself and his wife 
so that once the monies were returned to account 930 they could be transferred to the new 
joint account. Mr R confirmed he would do this and asked the advisor to close account 179 
and to transfer the monies in that account to where they had come from. 
BOIs records show that the monies were transferred back into the account 930 on 19 March 
and account 179 was closed on 20 March. In the light of this call recording I am satisfied that 
the transfer was done with Mr and Mrs Rs permission and at their instruction.
There is a delay however between the transfer and the opening of joint account 247 in 
August 2019. This is another online account and in the light of Mr Rs confirmation during the 
18 March call that he would open this account himself, I cannot see that the cause of this 
delay is due to BOI. BOIs records reveal no contact by Mr and Mrs R from March to August. 
Mr R has referred to two emails sent by BOI on 12 March. These are entitled Keeping you 
safe and are a notification that some personal details have been changed on a savings 
account. There is one email to Mr R and one to Mrs R. No account details are mentioned but 
the explanation given is, These could include changes to your address, personal contact 
details, or linked account The email invited Mr and Mrs R to contact BOI if they had not 
made any changes, or to ignore the email of they had. Mr R believes that these emails relate 
to a conversation he had with BOI either on 12 March or the day before when he says it was 
agreed that the account would be reinstated to joint names.BOI have confirmed that they only have two call recordings - the 18 March and 7 August. I 
understand Mr R believes there were other calls and he may well be right. The point is there 
is no recording of them and so that I dont know what was said. In the absence of such 
evidence, I must try to determine what is more likely to have happened from the evidence I 
do have. 
If Mr R is right about this call then I think it more likely that it was made before 12 March 
since that was the date account 179 was opened, and I think that it is unlikely to have 
happened on the same day. Prior to the 12 March the monies were in account 930 in the 
name of T and T R. Mr R suggests that BOI agreed to the reinstatement of the account to 
the joint names of himself and his wife. That may be correct, but even if it is I dont think it 
alters anything. Thats because on 12 March there was the transfer to account 179 which 
isnt disputed. That takes me forward to the call on the 18 March and having listened to the 
recording it was clearly to try to correct the names on account 179. 
So, at that point in time Mr and Mrs R knew which account the money was in and that it was 
in the wrong name. That leads on to Mr R then discussing what to do about this with the 
advisor on the 18 March. It was Mr R who suggested transferring the money out of account 
179 back to where it had come from, and then the opening a new account and transferring 
the money into there. This must mean Mr and Mrs R knew that the money was going back to 
the account it had been in some 6 days earlier and it is likely he knew what the rate of 
interest was on it too. And as Mr R said he would be opening a new joint account to transfer 
the money to, I cant see how any loss of interest caused by the delay in opening this new 
account can be said to be the fault of BOI.
So, although Mr and Mrs R will probably be disappointed with my decision I cant say BOI 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably. The accounts were opened online meaning BOI had no 
involvement in the names they were opened in; the account names were not changed by 
BOI since that could only be done on the written instruction of Mr and Mrs R and none was 
given; the monies were transferred on 18 March at Mr and Mrs Rs instruction to an account 
they specifically identified, and the joint account into which the monies were eventually 
transferred was opened in August by Mr R after he had confirmed in March that that was 
what he intended to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman