DRN-1835141
 
The complaint
Mr V's complaint concerns the lapsing of his Sharesave option for an account administered 
by Yorkshire Building Society ("YBS"). He feels YBS' actions have led to him losing the 
opportunity to buy shares, resulting in a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr V was a member of his company's Sharesave scheme. He was made redundant in 
December 2018 and in January 2019 he contacted YBS to find out about continuing with the 
scheme. He was told that he would be able to continue contributing. But in accordance with 
the terms of the scheme, because of his redundancy, he could only do so until May 2019, 
with the option to then buy shares in June 2019. It was confirmed that the account in 
question would otherwise have matured in October 2019. 
The member of staff that Mr V spoke with explained that YBS had not at that point received 
confirmation of his redundancy from his company, but that once this was received, he would 
be sent a leavers pack that would set out his options and what he needed to do. Mr V was 
told this was usually received within four to six weeks of leaving the company's 
employment. 
Mr V next contacted YBS in July 2019 to take up the option to buy the shares. He was told 
that the option had lapsed in June 2019 and so would no longer be able to make the 
purchase, instead he would receive back all the money that he had saved in the scheme.
Mr V complained to YBS. It explained that Mr V's company had failed to properly inform 
YBS that he had left. The company had sent YBS the information but in the wrong format, so 
it wasn't picked up and as a result no leavers pack had been sent out. YBS acknowledged 
that it was unfortunate the issue hadn't been picked up sooner and it upheld the complaint 
as it didn't feel it had provided Mr V with its normal level of service. YBS offered Mr V 
compensation of £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But it didn't feel it could 
offer anything in respect of a potential loss as it couldn't be sure how Mr V would've 
proceeded if he had received the pack. 
Mr V referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator didn't feel YBS needed to do 
anything more. He said that as administrators of the scheme YBS had correctly explained 
the limitations that resulted from Mr V's redundancy situation and that it was reasonable to 
expect him to have followed up the non-receipt of the pack as he had been told it would be 
received within four to six weeks of his leaving date. 
Mr V didn't accept the investigator's opinion. He said, in brief, that he felt YBS should've 
followed the matter up and that the member of staff he spoke to didn't do his job properly - 
he should've contacted the company and YBS should've monitored him in his role. He felt 
there'd been technical faults with YBS' system that had led him to think that the account was 
still active up to the original October 2019 maturity date. He felt the payments he'd made to 
YBS should be analysed more closely to determine what had happened. He said that because of a breakdown in communications between the two companies he'd lost his 
savings.
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was clearly an unfortunate situation. But looking specifically at YBS' role in the matter, 
while there was potentially more that it could have done, I don't think there's anything that it 
definitely should have done, and failed to do, that led directly to Mr V incurring a loss. 
I've listened to the call Mr V had with YBS' member of staff in January 2019. I think the 
information that was given to him was clear - particularly in respect of the shortened term of 
the Sharesave scheme and also the fact that the receipt of the leavers pack was an 
important part of that process.
The error that led to that correspondence not being sent appears to have been made by
Mr V's company, not YBS. It sent the information to YBS in the wrong format. But it is solely 
the actions of YBS that I'm considering in this decision, not Mr V's former employer. 
Although Mr V had contacted YBS in January 2019 I don't think there's anything that ought 
to have prompted YBS to then note the absence of the information and chase it up. No 
commitment was made to him that YBS would do that.
Ultimately, as I said, this is an unfortunate situation. But it's nevertheless the case that Mr V 
was correctly made aware that he should expect to receive important correspondence within 
four to six weeks of leaving his company. When he didn't receive it, due to an apparent error 
by his former employer, not YBS, I think it's reasonable to expect him to have chased it up 
much sooner. Instead, it was nearly six months following his call to YBS that he followed the 
matter up. Had he done so sooner, I think the problem would most likely have been sorted 
out in time for Mr V to make the share purchase. 
As such, I don't think I can reasonably find YBS responsible for any loss incurred due to
Mr V not being able to buy the shares. I think its offer of £600 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, which reflects the fact that he was given some incorrect information 
when he made contact in July 2019, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman