DRN-1958015
 
The complaint
Ms R complains that some investment advice she received from Capital Professional Limited 
trading as Ascot Lloyd (AL) was unsuitable. As a result she declined the advice and doesnt 
think it is reasonable to be charged a fee for that advice.
What happened
Ms R held savings in the form of cash ISAs, a stocks and shares ISA, an onshore 
investment bond, and a personal pension. She also held further pension savings in an 
occupational pension scheme. Ms R got in touch with AL to seek a review of these savings 
as she prepared for retirement. She met with AL in May 2018 and agreed to the charges that 
would be payable for the advice.
In its original report AL confirmed that it wouldnt be providing Ms R with any advice in 
relation to her occupational pension savings. But it agreed to review and advise on the 
remaining investments I noted above.
AL issued some recommendations to Ms R in its report dated 26 September 2018. Those 
recommendations proposed that Ms R transfer her ISA savings and investment bond into a 
new ISA product. And that she transfer the pension savings from her personal pension into a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
When Ms R discussed those recommendations with AL she became concerned that the 
advisor wasnt able to provide the level of detail that she was asking for about some of the 
proposals. The advisor did however later provide additional information by email and 
responded to the questions that Ms R raised.
Ultimately Ms R decided that she didnt wish to proceed with the recommendations made by 
AL. She considered that the costs of the new proposals would mean that any investment 
returns would be reduced and that she would be better off remaining with her current 
arrangements. She also expressed some disappointment that AL hadnt provided her with 
advice about her occupational pension benefits.
As Ms R had decided not to proceed, AL said it was entitled to charge her for the advice it 
had provided. In the agreement that Ms R had originally signed AL was able to charge up to 
£5,000 for the advice. But the invoice it presented to Ms R was for £1,500. Ms R was 
unhappy with that charge so she complained at AL about the advice it had provided. 
AL didnt agree with Ms Rs complaint but, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to reduce its 
invoice to £750.
Ms R didnt accept that offer and brought her complaint to this Service. Her complaint has 
been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that the advice and information 
AL had provided to Ms R had been inappropriate. And she thought that the amount AL was 
asking Ms R to pay for the advice it had given was reasonable. So she didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Ms R didnt agree with that assessment. But she offered to pay AL £300 for the work it had 
done. AL didnt accept that offer. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint I have taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time. Ive looked carefully at the submissions that have 
been made by Ms R and by AL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
When Ms R has talked about her complaint, she has identified the main areas that caused 
her the greatest concern. She says that the recommendations made by AL werent 
supported by suitable evidence and information, such as details of past performance and 
projected growth. Ms R was disappointed that the investment products recommended by AL 
werent based on the whole market  but instead focussed on products available from a 
single related company. Ms R says that she was disappointed that the advice she received 
didnt provide any recommendations in relation to her occupational pension. And she says 
that the report produced by AL contained a number of material errors which made her doubt 
all the recommendations.
In reaching my decision I have considered the specific areas that Ms R has identified of 
concern. But I have also considered the overall recommendations that were made and 
whether AL has provided a reasonable level of service to Ms R.
The advice that AL provides to a consumer must start from a detailed understanding of the 
current circumstances and future expectations of that consumer. That information would 
normally be gathered through one or more discussions with the consumer, and from 
gathering information about the current investments held. I can see that AL did gather that 
information and summarised it in the report it provided. I appreciate that Ms R says that 
some of that information, in particular the rental income she received from a second 
property, was overstated. But I havent seen anything that would make me think any errors 
were as a result of negligence from AL, or that it wouldnt have taken steps to correct that 
information if Ms R had provided further details.
Before providing its advice to Ms R, AL assessed the level of risk that she was willing to take 
in order to meet her financial goals. I can see that risk level was assessed both by use of a 
questionnaire based tool, and through a discussion with Ms R. Ultimately Ms R was 
assessed as having a risk level of 5 on a scale of 1 to 10. It appears to me that risk level was 
appropriately assessed and reflected in the investments that AL recommended to Ms R.
When it first met with Ms R, the documentation produced by AL reflected that it had agreed 
with her that it wouldnt be making any recommendations in relation to her occupational 
pension. And it also confirmed that the investment products it would recommend would be 
taken from a preferred provider panel, that had been selected from those available in the 
whole market. So I dont think AL fell short of its responsibilities to Ms R in terms of the 
scope of the advice it gave, or the selection of investment providers.When producing an advice report such as this, a firm needs to strike a balance between 
ensuring that a consumer has sufficient information on which to make an informed decision, 
and making sure that it provides that information in an easily understandable and accessible 
format. Here, Ms R felt that she needed further information in order to make her final 
decision. And I can see that following the initial recommendations being provided AL did 
send further information to Ms R to help her make a final decision on whether or not to 
proceed.
Ms R continued to discuss the recommendations with AL for some time. I have noted that 
the following July Ms R told AL that her circumstances had changed and this meant she was 
having to reconsider some of the decisions shed made about her retirement plans. I dont 
think this was a major reason for her to not accept the recommendations AL provided, but 
I do think it would be reasonable to consider it a contributing factor.
Ms R was entirely free to decide whether or not to accept the recommendations that AL 
provided. And the reasons for not going ahead with those recommendations were entirely 
reasonable. But I dont think they mean that AL shouldnt be paid for the work it had done. 
I havent seen enough to make me conclude that its advice fell so short of what Ms R should 
have reasonably expected that it would be right for me to conclude AL isnt entitled to charge 
the fee that Ms R agreed to pay.
The agreement that Ms R signed allowed AL to charge her up to £5,000 if she decided not to 
proceed with its recommendations. The charge that AL ultimately asked Ms R to pay was 
much less than that - £1,500. And it has since offered to reduce that charge to £750. AL has 
confirmed that offer of a reduced charge remains available to Ms R if she now wishes to 
accept it. She should get in touch with AL to ask for a revised invoice if that is the case.
In summary I dont think the recommendations that AL gave to Ms R were inappropriate. 
Ms R was entirely free to decide not to proceed with those recommendations. But AL was 
entitled to charge her for the work it had done. So I think that the charge AL has asked Ms R 
to pay is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Capital Professional Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2020. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman