DRN-4108931
The complaint
Miss L says HSBC UK Bank Plc irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss L took out a credit card from HSBC in June 2019 with a credit limit of £1,000. The credit 
limit was never increased. The account defaulted in September 2020.
Miss L said HSBC should never have given her the card and such a high limit. Its checks 
should have shown she had a low credit score and negative marks on her file. She wants the 
debt to be wiped, any fees and charges she paid to be refunded and default markers to be 
removed from her credit file.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Miss Ls complaint. He said HSBC carried out proportionate 
checks before lending and these did not show any signs that the credit would be 
unaffordable for Miss L.
Miss L disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. She said 
HSBC had destroyed her life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending.
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
In summary, to assess Miss Ls complaint I need to decide whether HSBC carried out 
proportionate checks before agreeing to lend, if not what would better checks have shown, 
and did it make a fair lending decision.
HSBC has explained that it relied in part on information that Miss L provided at the time of 
application (such as her income and residential status) and data from internal models to 
assess affordability. And it carried out a credit search in Miss Ls name to assess Miss Ls 
level of debt at that time and to understand how she had been managing that debt. It also 
carried out an external income verification check. With that information and using their own 
scoring metric, HSBC Bank decided to agree to the credit limit of £1,000 having concluded 
Miss L had a monthly disposable income of £343.
I think these checks were proportionate given the value and type of borrowing, and the 
monthly repayments (assuming a 5% of maximum balance) relative to Miss Ls income. I 
also think HSBC made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. Ill 
explain why. 
HSBC checked the income Miss L had declared and made some assumptions about her 
living expenditure. It understood how much she needed to spend on her existing credit from 
its credit check. This showed that Miss L had under £5,000 in unsecured debt when she 
applied, and her payments were up to date on all her active credit accounts. Her most recent 
default was 15 months ago, and the debt had since been settled. So it seemed her finances 
were now stable. I dont find that this historic adverse data should have been a reason not to 
lend given the results of all other checks.
In the round I dont think there were any indicators that this credit card might not be 
sustainably affordable for Miss L. She has sent in evidence of financial difficulties, but I cant 
see that these pre-date this credit card application. Also, it maybe that there was other 
adverse date on her full credit file but as I have found HSBCs checks were proportionate, I 
can only fairly expect HSBC to react to the results of those checks. 
I am sorry Miss L went on to struggle financially, but based on the results of its proportionate 
checks I dont think HSBC was wrong to lend to Miss L. It follows I am not instructing HSBC 
to write-off the debt as she asks, nor to refund any interest and charges she paid. I can see 
HSBC signposted free debt advisory services to Miss L.
Miss L also asked that the default be removed from her credit file, but HSBC has evidenced 
that it was applied fairly and in line with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
guidelines so there are no grounds for me to order this. It accurately reflects how she 
managed the account. I would urge Miss L to contact HSBC to discuss an affordable 
repayment plan, and I would remind HSBC of its obligation to treat Miss L fairly, and with 
forbearance.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman