DRN-3980981
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997. Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr W in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, and while it is not my 
intention to disappoint them, I have not found a reason to conclude that this policy was mis-
sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two and a half decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since 
closed. So its understandable that neither side have much documentation from the sale. Ive 
thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information 
I have.
I can see that around the time they applied for their mortgage, Mr and Mrs W went through a 
financial review with an advisor. The advisor recommended they took PPI  and this was 
only a recommendation, not a requirement. It looks like in order to apply for the policy, Mr 
and Mrs W would have done so separately to applying for the mortgage itself  the PPI was 
not part and parcel of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs W explained that they were told they should take out PPI in their situation. But it 
seems like it really was suitable in their situation, so that sounds more like good advice 
rather than unfair pressure. Theres nothing in the record of the advice that gives me cause 
for concern about pressure, and Ive not seen any wider problems with HSBCs sales 
process from the time. Overall, I think its most likely that HSBC made Mr and Mrs W aware 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr W was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any 
of its main exclusions or limitations. His second income was only a small fraction of his main 
income, so it wasnt enough to cover him if he lost his main job, and it shouldnt have caused 
issues when claiming on the policy. He didnt have any alternative cover, nor any significant 
benefits he could recall, and he only had limited savings  much of which was ringfenced for 
the new home anyway. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs W had fallen behind on 
their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So it seems reasonable that they took out PPI 
to protect their home and provide some peace of mind.
Because of the time thats passed, I dont know exactly what information HSBC gave Mr and 
Mrs W about the PPI  so its possible that the information wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
their minds. But as I explained above, Mr W wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs W in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim, 
and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, 
so Mr and Mrs W could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that 
better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman