DRN-3935735
The complaint
Mr A complains about the sale and setting up of a loan which he used to convert a fixed 
week timeshare to a points-based timeshare product. The loan was provided by  
Honeycomb Finance Limited (Honeycomb).  The loan (and with it responsibility for this 
complaint) was transferred in August 2022 to Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo), but, for simplicity, I shall 
refer to the respondent as Honeycomb.  
What happened
Mr A was an existing timeshare owner with Azure Resorts, a timeshare and holiday 
company. In May 2019 Mr A bought points (called XPs) which he could exchange for holiday 
accommodation and experiences, including sailing trips, motor home hire, and driving 
experiences. He bought 8,000 XPs for £10,560, funded with a 180 month loan from 
Honeycomb. 
In or around May 2022 Mr A contacted Honeycomb to express concerns about the way the 
loan had been sold. He said he had been put under pressure to agree to the sale and the 
loan agreement and that he had at times found it difficult to make the loan repayments. 
Honeycomb did not accept that the sales process had been faulty; it was, it said, satisfied 
that it complied with all legal and regulatory requirements. 
Mr A referred the matter to this service. In doing so, he clarified and expanded on some of 
the points he had made to Honeycomb. Amongst other things, he said:
A full affordability check was not completed, and the brokers who arranged the loan 
should have given independent advice. 
The sale was not properly authorised, and the person who arranged it was not 
authorised to give financial advice.
He had no means of obtaining an alternative loan and was not given the opportunity to 
do so.
The interest rate was not competitive.
He did not know there was anything wrong with the sales process until he spoke with a 
lawyer some time later. 
He did not recall seeing or signing a disclosure document.
Azure should not have been selling the loan directly. 
The loan funds should not have been paid to Azure directly.  
In January 2023 one of our investigators wrote to Mr A with an initial assessment of his 
complaint. The investigator said, in summary:
There was no requirement for an independent adviser to be present.
It was not clear what Mr A meant when he said that the sale of the finance was not 
authorised, but Honeycomb had possessed the necessary authorisation from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at the time the loan was agreed.  
There were three credit intermediaries named on the loan agreement. All three were 
FCA authorised, as was Azure Services Limited. 
There was no requirement to provide a choice of lender, but it was open to Mr A to pay 
by other means if he wanted to do so.
 The interest rate was set out clearly in the loan and in the pre-contract information.
The loan was a restricted credit agreement. It said that the funds would be paid direct to 
the supplier. Since the loan was to be used to pay for the XPs, there was no detriment 
to Mr A in that arrangement.  
He did not believe that the actions of the seller made the loan agreement unfair. 
Mr A had the opportunity of cancelling the sale and loan if he did not want to proceed. 
He was satisfied that Honeycomb had carried out proper checks to ensure that Mr A 
could afford the loan. 
He did not believe there was any detriment in the seller signing documents before Mr A 
did. 
He explained that this service cannot consider a complaint which is purely about the 
handling of a complaint by a financial business.  
After he received the investigators assessment, Mr A instructed a claims management 
company (the CMC) to represent him. The CMC made a number of further submissions. 
They included that the contract for the sale of the XPs included a provision allowing 
cancellation of membership if Mr A did not pay fees on time. That, the CMC said, was an 
unfair term which gave rise to an unfair relationship. In addition, the way in which 
management fees were calculated was not set out in clear and intelligible language. Again, 
that gave rise to unfairness.
Mr A asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator 
did, and for similar reasons. 
The scope of the complaint
The CMCs response to the investigators assessment raised a number of issues about the 
sale of the XPs and the terms of the club membership. Some provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974  notably sections 56 and 75  can have the effect of making a lender liable 
for the statements and actions of a seller. In addition, sections 140A and 140B give a court 
the power to consider whether a loan agreement creates an unfair relationship. In doing so, 
it can consider any connected agreement  which in this case would include the sale 
agreement. That means that concerns about the sale contract can impact the loan 
agreement.    In this case, however, I think that Mr A has been clear that his complaint concerns the sale 
of the loan, not the terms of the contract for the sale and purchase of the XPs and the club 
membership. The response to the investigators assessment therefore introduced those 
elements for the first time. Importantly, Honeycomb / Oplo has not had the opportunity to 
respond to them. Like the investigator, I do not therefore propose to address these new 
concerns. For the avoidance of doubt, however, and since I have not considered them, Mr A 
may be able to raise them as a separate complaint. 
I will also comment briefly on Mr As complaint about the way in which Honeycomb handled 
his complaint. As the investigator explained, that is not a complaint about financial services, 
so we have no power to consider it. I do however have power to make an award for distress 
and/or inconvenience if I am determining a financial services complaint in favour of a 
complainant. It is not uncommon for such awards to recognise the way in which a complaint 
has been handled; that is not the same as addressing that issue as a stand-alone complaint.     
Regulatory issues 
Much of Mr As complaint concerns the actions which he says the arranger of the loan 
should have taken to meet its regulatory obligations. The regulatory requirements were 
however rather different from what Mr A believes them to have been. 
Any credit intermediary, as well as Honeycomb, was required to have the necessary 
authorisation from the FCA  either to introduce consumer credit lending, or to provide it, or 
both. I am satisfied that all the parties which needed authorisation here had it. It was not 
necessary for individuals acting on behalf of those parties to be separately authorised. 
A major part of Mr As complaint is that he was not provided with independent financial 
advice. There was however no requirement that he receive independent or impartial advice. 
This was not a case where a broker was acting for Mr A and advising him on a suitable loan 
from a range of products. The seller was introducing a loan and, in so doing, was acting as 
agent for Honeycomb  see section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act.
For the same reason, there was no requirement to give Mr A a choice of provider.
That is not to say that the broker had no obligations towards Mr A. The part of the FCA 
Handbook that deals with consumer credit (known as CONC) sets out in some detail the 
information which must be provided before a loan is agreed, and regulations made under the 
Consumer Credit Act set out, for example, the format of pre-contract information and the 
loan agreement itself. I have not however identified any breach of either. 
Mr A is concerned that the loan funds were paid directly to Azure, rather than to him. Where 
a restricted use loan is set up under arrangements between a seller and a creditor, that is a 
perfectly normal arrangement. It applies equally to credit card payments, where the card 
provider pays the retailer and then seeks payment from its account holder. 
Mr A says that the interest rate on the loan was high. The APR was 9.50%. There is no 
regulatory or other restriction on a lender charging that much. The lender is however 
required to set out what the rate will be, and Im satisfied that it did that. The pre-contract 
information included other key information to enable Mr A to make an informed choice about 
the loan. That information included the total amount of the loan, how much the credit would 
cost, how much he would pay in total, the term of the loan and the monthly payments.   
I note as well that, even though Mr A says he was required to sign contracts on the day, he 
had 14 days in which to cancel both the timeshare agreement and the loan agreement. That 
is in line with legislation designed to protect buyers of timeshare products and consumer borrowers. The cancellation provisions in both the sale contract and the loan agreement 
were clear and prominent.     
Affordability issues 
Mr A says that Honeycomb did not properly assess whether he could afford the loan 
repayments. It sought information from him  including bank statements  after it had 
approved the loan. Honeycombs own records however show that it obtained and considered 
information about Mr As income and expenditure before releasing the loan funds. He had 
said he believed he could afford the monthly repayments.      
Some of Mr As income comes from buy-to-let properties, and I am satisfied Honeycomb 
took that into account. Mr A says however that the income he gets is limited and that he 
cannot charge a market rent, because they are sale and rent-back properties.
H has said that he has had difficulty making loan payments on occasions. I note however 
that in a telephone call of 22 December 2022 he said that affordability was not his main 
complaint and that he could afford the loan. I think it likely therefore that, even if Honeycomb 
had carried out further checks, it would have reached the same lending decision, and Mr As 
position would not have been materially different.
If Mr A is having difficulty making payments or has difficulty in the future (perhaps because 
of a change in circumstances), I would expect him to contact Oplo in the first instances and 
for it to consider what arrangements it can make to assist.            
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint and do not 
require Oplo PL Ltd to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman