DRN-3741391
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a package bank 
account.
What happened
Mr Ss Bank account was changed from a First Additions packaged bank account to a 
Barclays account with Tech Pack in December 2015. Mr S paid a fee for each of these 
accounts.
Mr S says he was not given a choice when his account was changed in 2015 and didnt 
need the benefits that came with it, so he was mis-sold.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr 
S disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Mr S has complained about the change to his account in December 2015 only so this 
decision will cover this change only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has explained that the change to Mr Ss account was made as part of a commercial 
decision taken by Barclays to no longer offer the First Additions package bank account to its 
customers. When this decision was made customers with First Additions accounts were 
migrated to another account that best matched the account that they had previously held.
Its not unusual for a bank to review the accounts it offers its customers and that as part of 
the review a decision is made to either change part of an account or to remove it entirely. 
We consider changes like this to be reasonable if the bank gives customers reasonable 
notice of the change and explains the available options.
We do not consider the change to be a sale and we do not expect the bank to follow a sales 
process. I understand Mr S does not accept this change to his account was not a sale, but I 
am unable to agree. Put simply, the account Mr S held with Barclays was no longer 
available, so it was changed to an account that best matched what he had previously held.
Although, as Ive explained above Barclays still had to give Mr S reasonable notice of the 
change and explain his options.
Barclays has provided evidence from the time Mr Ss account was changed to support its 
view that it gave Mr S fair notice of the charge to his account.
On 28 September 2015 Barclays wrote to Mr S. The letter explained that his account would 
be changing to a Barclays Bank Account with Tech Pack on 15 December 2015. The letter 
also explained the new fee that would apply to the account and gave several options.
One of the options given to Mr S was:
If you decide you dont want these changes to apply, you're free to remove the Tech Pack 
from your account but you'll need to let us know before 14 December 2015By not opting 
for Tech Pack, your account will become a Barclays Bank Account  with no monthly 
account fee  and your insurance benefits will end.
I think this letter made it clear that Mr S could choose to downgrade his account to one 
without a fee. It also gave him more than two months to make this decision.
On 15 December 2015 Barclays wrote to Mr S again to confirm that the change to his 
account had been made the letter also stated:
You can remove Tech Pack or add other Features Store Packs at any time.
With the above in mind I think Barclays met its obligations to make Mr S aware of the 
change that was being made to his account and he would have been aware that he had an 
option to downgrade his account to one that was free.
So, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman