DRN-2216313
The complaint
Mr T has complained that insurance arranged by BISL Limited for his property was cancelled 
due to him not being a UK resident. Mr T believes he was never covered by the insurance, 
and has asked that he receive his premiums back, plus compensation.
What happened
In 2019 Mr T contacted BISL in order to renew his buildings insurance. He had been a 
customer since 2013. During the call, BISL has stated that it discovered that Mr T no longer 
lived in the UK and told him that it couldnt offer him cover, as it only arranged cover for UK 
residents. 
Mr T was unhappy about this and raised a complaint. He said that BISL was aware that he 
wasnt a UK resident and that it had happily taken his money previously. He felt that had he 
made a claim the insurer wouldnt have paid out and he wouldve been uninsured. Mr T 
wanted a full refund of all his premiums paid as well as compensation for the distress 
caused. 
BISL said that it wasnt made aware at the previous renewals that Mr T resided abroad. Had 
it known, his insurance wouldnt have been renewed. It recognised that it hadnt obtained 
enough information about where he lived and that it had cancelled his policy without giving 
him notice. For those errors, it offered him £105 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused and a further £20 for the telephone calls he made.
BISL also suggested that despite Mr T not being resident within the UK, had an event 
occurred during the insured period, it wouldve looked to ensure that he was covered under 
the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Unfortunately, Mr T didnt receive the compensation offered by BISL as it had transferred it 
to a payment card that had expired. For that error, BISL offered a further £25 compensation, 
making a total of £150 offered to Mr T for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr T was unhappy about this outcome and brought his complaint to the service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and found that BISL had acted fairly. He said 
that the offer of £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused, was reasonable. 
He concluded that BISLs intention wasnt to offer to cover non-UK residents. He also said 
that Mr Ts intention wasnt to mislead BISL. 
Mr T didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 15 July 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 14 
August 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
I must consider this complaint impartially and look at whether BISL acted unfairly in its 
dealings with Mr T. I have had sight of the policy document and I have considered Mr Ts 
main complaints, which are:
The cancellation of his policy without notice.
The exclusion of non-UK residents.
He felt that had he made a claim, he wouldnt be covered and so would like a full refund of 
all his premiums paid, plus compensation. 
Cancellation of policy without notice
BISL has admitted that it provided poor customer service to Mr T by it having cancelled his 
policy without notifying him first and not sufficiently, finding out where he lived. I can 
understand how frustrating and inconvenient this mustve been for Mr T. But BISL did put 
matters right by offering an initial £125 in total compensation. I note that this compensation 
was later increased by £25, when BISL had wrongly sent the payment to an expired card. 
So, I think that BISL had acted fairly by recognising its poor level of service and its failure to 
enquire where Mr T lived. 
Exclusion of non-UK residents
BISL said that had it been made aware that Mr T had lived outside of the UK, it wouldnt 
have covered him. It relied upon terms and conditions, that said that cover was only for UK 
residents. I have seen that this information was present on the price comparison site from 
2013, when Mr Ts policy was first incepted. It said: UK residents only. 4.1 This website is 
directed only at UK residents and nothing within it or these terms and conditions constitutes 
an offer or promotion of services or products to persons outside the UK. 
BISL confirmed that Mr T wouldve been aware of the UK residency requirement because he 
wouldve had to tick the terms and conditions box in the online form, before being allowed to 
generate a quote. In addition, the screenshot that I have seen makes it clear that cover is 
only available to UK residents. So, Im persuaded that BISL was clear that cover wasnt for 
non-UK residents. And I dont think that BISL can be at fault, if Mr T didnt fully read the 
terms and conditions and merely ticked the box to allow a quote. 
I have listened to the renewal calls. It was accepted that the property was a holiday home. 
But BISL said that at no time did Mr T disclose that he wasnt a UK resident. Based on the 
evidence that I have seen, I agree. There is no mention from Mr T that he resided abroad in 
his previous renewals. So, when he attempted to renew in 2019 and BISL became alerted to 
the fact that he wasnt a UK resident, it declined cover. I think its reasonable for BISL to 
have declined cover, on that basis as it wasnt in line with its terms and conditions.
Was Mr T covered? 
Mr T said that he had been paying premiums without being covered. BISL has stated that Mr 
T had had the benefit of cover over the years and that if he had made a claim, it wouldve 
looked to cover him under the terms and conditions of the policy. In response to a question raised about this issue with BISL, it has said that: the insurer 
would not have a way to decline the risk. In the absence of an actual claim having to be 
made by Mr T, I cannot say for certain whether claims would have been met. But if this were 
to happen retrospectively and Mr Ts claim was declined, this service could look at any 
complaint he raised against the insurer.
I have next looked at whether the level of compensation was fair in the circumstances. BISL 
has offered compensation as it recognised that it had cancelled Mr Ts policy without giving 
him notice and had failed to fully investigate where he lived. Our role isnt to fine or to punish 
the businesses we cover. Rather, we look at the effect on the policyholders including their 
upset. I can understand why Mr T was rightly upset and the stress this may have caused. 
But I am satisfied that BISL has offered a level of compensation that is a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
Whilst I can see how strongly Mr T feels and how disappointing this will be, I dont think BISL 
has acted unfairly and I cant ask it to do anymore. 
Responses to my provisional decision
I have received no response from BISL, but Mr Ts main response was: 
That he felt that had he made a claim, he wouldnt be covered and so would like a full 
refund of all his premiums paid, to avoid escalation.
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, I 
havent changed my findings. My reasons for this will be explained below.
BISL has acknowledged that Mr T had had the benefit of cover over the years that he had 
been insured with them. And because he had this benefit, it wouldnt refund premiums. It has 
also said that the insurer would not have a way to decline the risk. In the circumstances, I 
am satisfied that BISL have confirmed that Mr T had cover. 
As to whether a potential claim made by Mr T wouldve been met, my role is to look at what 
actually happened as a result of a mistake  its not to speculate on a future event that may 
or may not occur. Of course, should anything like this happen again, Mr T would be entitled 
to raise a complaint about that at the time. 
I understand that Mr T remains disappointed and wants to pursue other avenues which is 
something he can do if he wishes. But, I am satisfied that BISL acted fairly and there is 
nothing further that I can ask them to reasonably do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that BISL Limited offer is fair and reasonable. So I direct BISL Limited to 
pay £150 if it hasnt done so already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman