DRN-4456170
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have recorded incorrect default dates on his bank 
account and his credit card.
What happened
Mr K says that HSBC registered a default for his bank account on 31 December 2021, and 
for his credit card on 30 September 2022. He says these dates are incorrect as the default 
on his bank account should be dated 1 February 2020 and the credit card default date 
should be 1 July 2019 as this is when he was six months in arrears. Mr K made a complaint 
to HSBC.
HSBC did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. They said that they only register a default when the 
final demand letter has expired. and the account(s) are closed and passed to HSBC 
Repayment Services. They said their records show Mr K was sent default notice letters in 
2018/2019 but the process to register the defaults on his accounts were suspended. HSBC 
said their records show at the time there was an ongoing investigation into fraud transactions 
on his account, and his accounts were reviewed again in 2021 and the default process 
reinstated as they had received no payments to repay the debt. They said letters were sent 
to him to inform him of their intention if they received no payments. 
Mr K brought his complaint to our service. He said the fraud/disputed transaction 
investigation was concluded on 26 April 2018, and he provided our service with a letter 
HSBC sent on this date stating the investigation into the disputed debits had been 
completed, and they were unable to support his claim for reimbursement.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. She said HSBC explained that the fraud 
complaint stopped the default process, and when the default process was restarted in 2021, 
they had issued the default notice on 18 June 2021 for the bank account, with a default 
being registered on 30 December 2021. She said the default notice was issued on the credit 
card in February 2019. Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he 
wanted the defaults removed and he wasnt given the chance to make repayment plans. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ks complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
Ive considered whether the date of the defaults are fair for what happened here. Ive 
considered what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says about what should or 
shouldnt be reported to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). The ICO is the body created 
which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a document called Principles for 
the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. It is 
entirely reasonable to rely on this, because when determining a complaint, as amongst other 
things, I am required to take into account good industry practice and in my view, these 
principles constitute good industry practice in this area.
The PRAAD states that a default would usually occur if the customer falls into arrears on
their account, or they do not keep to the revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be
recorded to show that the relationship has broken down. As a general guide, this may occur
when somebody is three months in arrears, and normally by the time somebody is six
months in arrears. 
So Ive considered whether I would have expected the defaults to be registered when they 
were. I can see that HSBC wrote to Mr K on 10 October 2018 to advise him that they no 
longer wished to provide him banking facilities. HSBC sent Mr K a default notice on 23 
February 2019 for his credit card. I can see from the statements and the credit file that Mr K 
has sent us that he had been in arrears for a number of months from when they sent the 
default notice. And while Mr K made a payment only two days earlier, this did not clear the 
arrears or stop a default notice being sent out. 
The default notice told Mr K that he needed to pay £206.38 by 16 March 2019, and if he 
didnt do so then further action may be taken against him, which included disclosing 
information about the default to the CRAs. The letter says they would not register a default 
for at least 28 days from the date of the letter. So Im not persuaded that HSBC should have 
automatically registered a default on 23 March 2019 (28 days from the date of the letter) as 
the default notice shows at least 28 days. Given that Mr K had made a payment only two 
days earlier on 21 February, then Im satisfied that there could have been a chance Mr K 
made a further payment to avoid a default.
But when Mr K did not act by the date given in the default notice and he continued not to 
make payments, then Im satisfied they should have taken action to default the account in 
line with PRAAD when he was six months in arrears. So Im not persuaded it was 
proportionate to register a default on 30 September 2022. I know HSBC have commented 
the collections activity had been halted due to the complaints that Mr K made, but it doesnt 
appear his complaints were related to his credit card. But even when the outcome of these 
complaints had been made then HSBC should have backdated the default based on what 
happened, instead of registering the default in September 2022. 
I say this as the relationship had clearly broken down years before this date. The last date 
which Mr K made a payment when he was not in arrears on his account was on 6 
September 2018. So I think it would be fair to backdate the default to six months after this 
date to be in line with PRAAD guidance. It would not be fair for the default to stay on Mr Ks 
credit file until September 2028, when the default should have been registered in March 
2019 (and therefore not be on his credit file from March 2025, and not 2028). So Im satisfied 
that HSBC should backdate the credit card default to 6 March 2019 for these reasons.
Ive then considered the date of the default on Mr Ks bank account. Again Im aware that 
HSBC paused collection activity while his complaints were ongoing, but I would still expect 
PRAAD to be followed and I wouldnt expect making a complaint to have an adverse effect 
on someones credit file (in the sense that a default registered later than it should have will 
stay on a customers credit file for longer than if a complaint had not been made). I know HSBC issued a final demand on 6 September 2021 for Mr Ks bank account. But Im 
persuaded that HSBC should have acted long before this date. I say this because Mr K 
entered an unauthorised overdraft on 9 July 2019. He made no further payments into this 
account. So in line with PRAAD, Im persuaded that a default notice should have been sent 
in late 2019 giving Mr K 28 days to clear the arrears to avoid a default. So again, Im not 
persuaded that registering a default on his bank account on 31 December 2021 was treating 
Mr K fairly when there was no indication he could or would make payments to clear the 
overdrawn amount back in 2019.
So Im persuaded that the fairest thing to do here is for HSBC to backdate the default on his 
bank account to 9 January 2020. This is when the account would have been six months in 
arrears, and it is in line with PRAAD that a default would be registered generally when a 
customer is six months in arrears. While there may be some circumstances where it is not 
appropriate to register a default after six months (based on individual customer 
circumstances), Im not persuaded that it is proportionate for a default to be registered years 
after it should have been in this instance.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about the defaults should be removed. This is a different 
outcome to what hes previously said that he wanted as an outcome of this complaint. But as 
Mr K has not made regular payments to either his credit card or bank account for a number 
of years, then it would not be proportionate for me to ask HSBC to remove the defaults. 
While Mr K has said he wasnt given the opportunity to make payment arrangements, Im not 
persuaded by this either. 
I say this because Mr K was sent letters regarding making a payment arrangement and 
making payments before his accounts defaulted. They are addressed to the same address 
that he provided us on HSBCs letter in April 2018 about the outcome of the disputed 
transactions investigation. So Im satisfied that Mr K was given the opportunity to do this, but 
he didnt make any payment arrangement. HSBC also provided us an outbound phone call 
that they made to Mr K on 8 June 2021  before both defaults were registered. The caller 
clearly identifies herself as being from HSBC. Mr K confirms she is speaking to him, and she 
confirms again she is from HSBC. Mr K asks the call handler to give him one sec(ond), but 
then it appears he disconnects the phone line. So Mr K would have been aware HSBC 
wanted to speak to him, but Ive seen no evidence he called them back and wanted to make 
an arrangement plan. And the accounts were always likely to default when he made no 
payments for a prolonged period of time.
Mr K also ought to have been aware that he was in arrears on his accounts and that he 
hadnt paid for a number of years also. But Ive seen no evidence that Mr K tried to put a 
plan in place. Even if he was unable to pass security on the phone, he could have written to 
HSBC with a proposed payment plan (or visited a branch to verify himself and go on the 
phone if his health permitted it). There were at least eight letters sent to him before the 
accounts defaulted with telephone numbers to talk to them. I would find it unusual for Mr K to 
not receive any of these letters when he had received their letter about the disputed 
transactions investigation. But even if he didnt receive these letters, as they were posted to 
his registered address, then I cant hold HSBC responsible for any postal errors as this 
would be outside of their control. So Im not persuaded that HSBC should remove the 
defaults or that they didnt give him the opportunity to make a repayment plan. 
But I do believe they should backdate the dates of the defaults for the reasons Ive already 
given, so it follows I intend to ask HSBC to put things right for Mr K.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr K accepted the provisional decision. HSBC responded to the provisional 
decision, and they said they had no further points to add at this time.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to backdate the default on Mr Ks HSBC credit card to 6 March 2019, 
and to backdate the default on his HSBC bank account to 9 January 2020. Im still satisfied 
this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should backdate the default on Mr Ks 
HSBC credit card to 6 March 2019 and they should backdate the default on his HSBC bank 
account to 9 January 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman