DRN-3613498
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC reduced the credit limit on her account.
What happened
Mrs H received notice from Barclays that they were reducing the credit limit on her Barclays 
credit account from £11,300 to £2,100. Mrs H wasnt happy about this as she felt that she 
had an excellent credit record such that the reduction wasnt justified. So, she raised a 
complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Hs complaint. They confirmed that theyd made the decision to 
reduce the credit limit on Mrs Hs account after a review of her account information and 
information obtained from the credit reference agencies, and the they didnt feel that theyd 
acted unfairly towards Mrs H by doing so. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly towards Mrs H in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mrs H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit providers such as Barclays have an obligation to ensure that any line of credit that 
they provide to a customer continues to be affordable for that customer. To this end, credit 
providers receive regular updates about their credit account holders ongoing financial 
position from credit reference agencies to help them assess whether the amount of credit 
currently being offered could or should be adjusted.
In this instance, Barclays have confirmed that they received information from a credit 
reference agency that Mrs H had entered into a new mortgage arrangement towards the end 
of 2021 which prompted an assessment of Mrs Hs credit limit with them. And following this 
assessment, Barclays felt that the existing credit limit of £11,300 might no longer be 
affordable for Mrs H, and so may the decision to reduce the limit to £2,100.
Im aware that Mrs H feels that her excellent credit rating means that there wasnt any 
justification for Barclays reducing the credit limit on her account. But affordability concerns 
stem from whether a credit provider feels that an account holder would be able to reasonably 
afford to repay all of their existing credit commitments, if it were the case that that person 
used the maximum amount of credit available to them. 
In short, because of Mrs Hs new credit commitments surrounding her mortgage, Barclays 
had concerns that if Mrs H were to take her Barclays account balance to the £11,300 credit 
limit, she might struggle to be able to afford the monthly repayments that would become due 
on the account with such a balance. And so, they took the decision to reduce the credit limit 
available to Mrs H, in order to reduce this perceived risk.
It must be acknowledged that such a reduction of a credit limit is a decision Barclays are 
entitled to make. A consumer has no right to a particular credit limit. Rather, its at the 
discretion of the credit provider as to how much credit theyre willing to offer a particular 
consumer. And its within the terms of Barclays credit accounts that they can reduce the 
credit limit on an account if they consider it prudent to do so.
Additionally, I can also confirm that Barclays acting to reduce Mrs Hs credit limit as a result 
of an increase in perceived risk is precisely what would be expected of Barclays here, in 
consideration of their regulatory obligations and commitments. Indeed, had Barclays made 
the assessment of Mrs Hs affordability that they did, but continued to allow the credit limit on 
Mrs Hs account to remain at the previous higher level, I would almost certainly consider 
Barclays as having acted irresponsibly towards Mrs H for doing so.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unreasonably 
of unfairly towards Mrs H by reducing the credit limit on her account here, and it follows from 
this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action.
I understand that Mrs H continues to feel that her financial circumstances warrant a higher 
credit limit, and Barclays have confirmed that Mrs H can apply for an increase in the credit 
limit on her account moving forwards. However, Im satisfied that it absolutely should remain 
at Barclays discretion, pending their own assessment of Mrs Hs financial position, as to 
whether any application for further credit made by Mrs H will be successful or not.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs H was wanting, but I trust that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman