DRN-4019895
The complaint
Miss S and Mr T complain about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) who has 
avoided their cover (treated it as though it never existed) and provided poor service, 
following their claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S and Mr T obtained cover from RSA online. The statement of fact, issued on 29 
September 2021, showed that there was one claim disclosed. Miss S and Mr T made a claim 
for a leak. During the claims process, Miss S and Mr T disclosed to RSA that there had been 
some previous claims. RSA said that it wasnt aware of any other claims, as only one had 
been disclosed on the online submission. 
During the investigation, RSA found that there had been two additional claims that Miss S 
and Mr T had not disclosed. There had been an accidental damage on 18 July 2020 and an 
escape of water on 5 October 2020. 
Miss S and Mr T said that there had only been one additional claim as the other claim that 
had been on their record, was a duplication. 
Because RSA found the two additional undisclosed claims, it voided their policy, as it said 
that had it been made aware of the claims, it would never have offered cover. 
Miss S and Mr T made a subject access request (SAR) as they wanted to know what 
information RSA had, that led to its decision to void their policy. They felt that RSA had 
incorrectly recorded the claims on their record, and this not only affected their premiums 
going forward, but also caused them extreme distress. So, Miss S and Mr T complained to 
RSA. 
In its final response, RSA said that the decision to void the policy was correct, as they had 
found three separate claims (it didnt accept there was duplication). It confirmed that it had 
refunded all the premiums paid, as a result of the voidance. It also said that there was some 
poor communication, and that it hadnt acted on the first SAR. For those failings, it offered 
compensation of £250, for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Miss S and Mr T remained unhappy with the outcome and referred a complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be 
upheld. 
She said that RSA treated Miss S and Mr T as if they had made a careless 
misrepresentation. And as it had confirmed and provided evidence to show that it would not 
have provided cover, had the other claims been disclosed, this was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. Her view was that RSA had been fair to refund all the premiums paid and 
fair that it had recognised the poor service. She said that the compensation of £250, was in 
line with our approach. 
RSA accepted the view. Miss S and Mr T did not. They said that it was important to ensure 
the record was accurate (which they said it wasnt) as this wouldve an effect on their future 
policies. They said there were concerned about the information given to them by RSA, 
regarding whether they were insured or not. They said that RSA failed to respond to their 
SAR, and this breached guidelines. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment to Miss S and Mr T. But I 
hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
RSA thinks Miss S and Mr T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they completed the online application, by indicating that there was only one previous 
claim recorded against them. And for this, it classed the misrepresentation as careless.
Miss S and Mr T said that there had only been one other claim, as the other two claims were 
duplications. So, Ive had a look into this. 
From what Ive read, there are three claims that have been mentioned by all parties. Miss S 
and Mr T said the claims are as follows: 
1 July 2019         Escape of water 
18 July 2020       Accidental damage (caused by the escape of water) 
5 October 2020   Escape of Water 
Miss S and Mr T said that the first and second were a duplication, as they had in error 
entered 2019 rather than 2020. 
RSA said that the 1 July 2019 Escape of water was for £800 (disclosed), the accidental 
damage claim was for £937.56 (undisclosed) and the final escape of water claim was for 
£600 (undisclosed). 
If the claims on 1 and 18 July 2020 had been duplications, I wouldve expected the 
settlement figure on both to be the same, as well as the dates. But they werent. It could be 
that 1 July claim was made and settled, which was then followed by 18 July claim, which Miss S and Mr T have shown arose from the escape of water claim on 1 July. If this is the 
case, then it will still be two separate claims (albeit arising from the same incident). 
But apart from Miss S and Mr T stating that it was a duplication, they havent provided any 
evidence (such as from a previous insurer) that shows that the claims were a duplication. 
Consequently, Im persuaded that the claims were not a duplication and that there had been 
three claims made, albeit two arose from the same incident. And I do think that RSA fairly 
voided their policy, on the basis of the undisclosed claims. 
I have next looked into the poor communication that Miss S and Mr T complained about. And 
in particular the two weeks in which they said they werent sure if they were insured or not. 
Ive had a look at the call records and from that evidence, RSA told Miss S and Mr that their 
policy was still active and that the final decision hadnt been made (as to the investigation). A 
further call took place a few days later and after Miss S and Mr T had been informed of 
RSAs decision to cancel the policy and refund the premiums. 
During that call, the call handler informed them that the policy had been referred to the 
underwriter for a review. Miss S and Mr T told the call handler that they had received 
communication from RSA indicating that the policy had been cancelled, to which the call 
handler agreed that it was most likely cancelled. I understand that from that date Miss S and 
Mr T obtained alternative insurance from another provider. 
Miss S and Mr T said that they felt that RSA were not transparent and should have:  been 
informed of the investigations process through a reservation of rights letter (or equivalent) by 
RSA indicating that the claim raised may not have been covered under our policy, and that 
our insurer was investigating the claim and reserved the right to deny the claim after it 
completed its investigation.  We cant tell a business how it should operate, as this is not 
within our remit. What we can look at is whether its actions were fair and reasonable. And I 
think they were. RSA did tell Miss S and Mr T that their policy was still active  which was 
correct. It also warned them not to effectively make a claim whilst the investigation was 
ongoing. And told them when the policy was cancelled. It also refunded all premiums to Miss 
S and Mr T. So, I think its actions were fair and what we would expect it to do in the 
circumstances. 
Miss S and Mr T also complained that RSA had failed to respond to their SAR request and 
that this breached guidelines. 
RSA said that it had submitted the request for the SAR but there was a delay in its 
submission, which when it was submitted, the request and information that followed was 
provided to Miss S and Mr T. 
Although there was a delay (which RSA accept) Im satisfied that it did provide Miss S and 
Mr T with the information. Further, Miss S and Mr T had purchased alternative insurance, 
from a different provider, on the same day that RSA notified them that their policy had been 
cancelled. Given there is a 30-day time frame for SARs to be responded to, Im persuaded 
that it wouldnt have made much difference to the cost of the alternative insurance, as the 
premium would be higher, due to the voided policy. 
Turning to the level of compensation RSA offered, namely £250, Im satisfied that this was 
fair and reasonable (and in line with our approach) for the delay that it accepted had been 
caused during the investigations. Consequently, Im unable to direct RSA to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.My final decision
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has agreed to refund the premiums from the date 
of inception to the date the policy was voided. And I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Miss S and Mr T £250 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused (If it hasnt done so already).
So, my decision is that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must refund the premiums 
from the date of inception to the date the policy was voided, within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss S and Mr T accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. If it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman