DRN-3991314
The complaint
Mrs O and Mr O complain UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Insurance (UKI) failed 
to direct them to their legal expenses insurance (LEI) cover for help in taking action against a 
contractor. And theyre unhappy UKI later declined their LEI claim. 
What happened
Mrs O and Mr O had home insurance with UKI that included legal expenses insurance (LEI). 
In around late 2019/early 2020 Mrs O and Mr O made a claim on their policy for damage to 
their property caused by an escape of water. They chose to appoint their own contractor to 
carry out repairs. UKI agreed to that and made them a cash payment to settle their claim.
While repairs were being carried out, UKI met storage costs for their contents. UKI spoke to 
Mrs O and Mr O several times about when it would be possible to move them back to the 
property. Unfortunately, Mrs O and Mr O had problems with their contractor which added to 
delays already resulting from the coronavirus pandemic and caused them additional costs of 
repair. In early 2021 Mrs O and Mr O told UKI theyd had to let the contractor go and arrange 
for others to do the work. 
Mrs O and Mr O told UKI they planned to sue the contractor. UKI said Mrs O and Mr O could 
report the contractor to the council and trading standards and take legal advice. But they 
didnt suggest they contact UKIs legal advice helpline, which was available to them as part 
of their LEI cover, or that they might be covered for the costs of legal proceedings. 
Mrs O and Mr Os legal action against the contractor succeeded. But the contractor failed to 
pay. And Mrs O and Mr O took further action to make him bankrupt. The proceedings ended 
in around June 2022. They incurred legal costs of around £6,000 overall.
In around July 2022, when Mrs O and Mr O were making a further claim on their home 
insurance policy for an unrelated issue, they realised their LEI cover would have been 
available for their claim against the contractor. When they attempted to claim the legal costs 
theyd incurred, UKI declined their claim. They said it was excluded since the costs had been 
incurred without UKIs agreement.
Mrs O and Mr O felt UKI should meet the claim. They said UKI ought to have told them they 
could make a LEI claim when they mentioned they were planning legal action. And they 
were unhappy UKI had passed them between different departments when they contacted 
them to make their claim. UKI didnt uphold Mrs O and Mr Os complaint that UKI had failed 
to advise them they had LEI and could make a claim for cover to pursue the contractor. They 
said Mrs O and Mr O had never raised the issue; details of their cover were set out in their 
policy schedule and policy booklet; and the policy didnt cover costs incurred without UKIs 
permission, as here. UKI acknowledged theyd provided poor service in handling the claim 
and paid them £100 to put things right.
Since Mrs O and Mr O were unhappy with the outcome, they brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator thought UKI had fairly declined their LEI 
claim on grounds the exclusion applied. He thought Mrs O and Mr O ought to have known 
what cover they had. And he thought the compensation UKI paid for the poor service was 
fair. Mrs O and Mr O didnt agree, so their complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont mention here everything the parties have told us. No discourtesy is intended by that. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on what I think is key 
in coming to my decision. 
Im sorry to hear of the difficult time Mrs O and Mr O had in relation to the works being 
carried out to their house, how long things took and the expense they incurred. I can 
understand it was stressful given their circumstances and the impact of the coronavirus 
pandemic. 
We expect insurers to consider claims fairly and promptly and not to decline claims 
unreasonably. The starting point is the terms of the policy. Mrs O and Mr O had LEI which 
provided cover for their legal expenses up to a limit, subject to the policy terms and 
conditions.
They had cover under Section 4 Family Legal Protection for, amongst other things, contract 
disputes arising out of the buying of services. So, on the face of it, the costs of pursuing the 
claim against the contractor would have been covered provided all the terms and conditions 
of the policy were met.
It was a condition of the policy that they must contact the legal helpline before incurring any 
costs. And cover was excluded where costs were incurred before UKI accepted a claim. 
Since Mrs O and Mr O had incurred costs before they made the claim, the exclusion applied. 
The exclusion was clearly set out in the policy as Id expect. Its not an unusual term to find 
in a LEI policy. We dont generally expect insurers to meet costs over which theyve had no 
control in terms of the rates charged and work carried out for example. The issue here is 
whether it was fair, in the circumstances of Mrs O and Mr Os complaint, for UKI to apply the 
exclusion and decline the claim.
From what I understand, Mrs O and Mr O were aware they had LEI cover when problems 
with their contractor arose. But since their policy documents were in storage they couldnt 
check the cover at the time. And they didnt realise they could have made a claim until they 
were looking at their policy in connection with a separate claim in 2022. Even if Im wrong 
about that, I think its reasonable to expect Mrs O and Mr O to have read the policy when 
they took out the insurance given its importance. And, if theyd done that, its reasonable to 
think theyd have known they had LEI cover and could make a claim, even if they couldnt 
access the policy wording to check the details.
UKI and Mrs O and Mr O were in contact in relation to their property damage claim. UKI had 
made a cash payment to settle it. And Mrs O and Mr O said they understood that since 
theyd engaged the contractor, not UKI, UKI werent responsible for the poor work hed 
carried out. 
When Mrs O spoke to UKI in early March 2021, she mentioned Mr Os plan to confront the 
contractor about his poor work, their concerns he shouldnt be allowed to treat other 
customers in the same way and the money theyd wasted on his services. UKI suggested 
they could report their concerns about the contractor to the council and trading standards. The possibility of Mrs O and Mr O getting legal advice, pursuing a small claim and the risk of 
throwing good money after bad were also discussed. 
But the discussion took place in the context of UKI checking regularly with Mrs O and Mr O 
when theyd be able to take delivery of their contents for which UKI were paying the storage 
charges. Im not persuaded the balance of evidence shows Mrs O and Mr O asked UKI 
directly then or at any other time before they made the claim in around July 2022 if they had 
LEI cover to pursue the contractor. Mr O sent an email to UKI in June 2021. UKI say it 
wasnt matched to his claim since it had the wrong reference. In the email, Mr O let UKI 
know he was taking legal action against the contractor. But he didnt request UKIs help with 
that, so I dont think it would have changed things even if UKI had considered it.
Im not persuaded either that UKI deliberately directed Mrs O and Mr O away from making a 
claim as theyve suggested. UKI could have checked if Mrs O and Mr O had LEI cover. But 
given the conversations were focussed on returning their belongings and storage charges, 
on balance, I dont think UKI acted unreasonably by failing to do so. Bearing everything in 
mind, it was reasonable for UKI to rely on the exclusion in declining the claim.
Even if Mrs O and Mr O had made a claim at the time, I cant be certain UKI would have 
accepted it or that all their costs would have been approved and met. It was a condition of 
the policy that their claim must have reasonable prospects of success. That meant, broadly, 
there had to be a more than 50% chance of obtaining a successful judgment and enforcing 
it. And UKI could refuse to pay costs if they considered they would be disproportionate to the 
value of the claim. Given the contractor was unable to pay, its possible UKI would have 
declined the claim or paid limited costs in any event.
Id expect UKI to have dealt with Mrs O and Mr Os LEI claim promptly when they made it. 
Given all Mrs O and Mr O had been through I can understand it will have been particularly 
frustrating for them when the claim was passed between different departments. So, it was 
fair UKI compensated them for the poor service. I think UKIs apology and the compensation 
payment they made of £100 was reasonable to put things right. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand they will be disappointed, I dont uphold    
Mrs O and Mr Os complaint 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs O and Mr Os complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to accept or reject 
my decision before 18 May 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman