DRN-2956232
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy about the fee Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim 
(FTR) has asked her to pay for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In January 2019, Mrs H said she instructed FTR to act on her behalf to pursue mis-sold PPI 
claims. She said she updated FTR when she moved address in March 2019. Mrs H said she 
had a successful claim with her lender Ill call L, and paid FTR their fee. But in January 
2021, she was surprised to receive an invoice from FTR asking her to pay another fee. FTR 
told her the fee was for another successful claim shed had with  L. But Mrs H said shed 
never received any redress. 
Mrs H was told her claim had been successful in April 2019. And that FTR hadnt updated 
her address details with L whod issued the redress payment to her old address. Mrs H 
said by FTR not updating her lender she had lost the opportunity to challenge the redress L 
had paid to her as she didnt think it was correct. And shed had to ask L to reissue the 
cheque for her redress. She complained to FTR as she didnt think their fee should be paid.
FTR confirmed Mrs H had updated her address but that they wouldnt have been able to 
update the address with the lender as this needed to be done by Mrs H. But they couldnt 
see that Mrs H had been told this when she informed them of her change of address. They 
said when they found in November 2020 that the PPI claim with L was successful theyd 
asked Mrs H for a copy of the final response letter that L should have sent. When Mrs H 
didnt reply, in January 2021 they sent the invoice for their fee. They accepted their customer 
service hadnt been to the standard theyd expect and offered to reduce their success fee for 
the successful claim with L by 50%.
Mrs H wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mrs Hs claim was successful and that L would have calculated the 
redress in line with the available guidance, so doubted there would have been a financial 
impact to Mrs H in not being able to have the amount of redress L offered reviewed. She 
also said that it wasnt for FTR to update her lender about her change of address.
Mrs H didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs H instructed FTR to act on her behalf in her mis-sold PPI claims. 
The agreement Mrs H had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means FTR 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. This 
meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mrs Hs claim was 
successful. So, in reaching my decision I need to determine whether I think FTR has acted 
fairly and reasonably in their actions with her.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI with them on
January 2019. And that Mrs H agreed to their terms and conditions.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You will ensure that any information provided is accurate and true to the best of
your knowledge.
And in March 2019 Mrs H updated them when she changed address. I can see FTR 
amended their records. And in April 2019 Mrs H was told by FTR about a successful claim 
with L.  FTRs records say: 
Called client to query address as lender has previous on offer letter. If we hold clients 
current address client will need to contact lender to update address in order to receive 
refund.
Mrs H has confirmed she received this offer of compensation and she paid FTR their 
success fee. So, I think it would have been known to both Mrs H and FTR that L still held 
Mrs Hs previous address details. I know Mrs H thinks FTR should have updated L but as 
FTR has said L wouldnt have accepted the change request from a third party and it would 
have been for Mrs H to have asked L to update their records.
For this successful claim FTR acted upon the final response letter from L so they knew Mrs 
Hs claim had been successful. But Mrs H had two successful claims with L both in April 
2019. From FTRs records I think theyd overlooked the outcome of the second successful 
claim. And it was only on checking their system records in November 2020, they found the 
other claim had also been successful. I can see they asked Mrs H the same month to 
provide details of the offer shed had from L. Mrs H said she never received FTRs request,  
but I cant hold FTR responsible for its non-delivery. And in January 2021, FTR asked Mrs H 
to pay their success fee.
I know Mrs H will be disappointed in my decision, but I think it was for her to update L with 
her new address details, and if she had, she would have received the cheque for her redress 
in April 2019. As outlined above the agreement she had with FTR wasnt based on the work 
they did but on whether the claim was successful or not. And the claim was successful. So, I 
think FTR can charge their success fee.
But there was a breakdown in their customer service which meant there was a delay in 
identifying the success of Mrs Hs remaining claim with L. And if this hadnt happened Mrs 
H could have taken the corrective action she has sooner. FTR has accepted theyre 
customer service wasnt to the standard theyd expect. And have offered to reduce their 
success fee by 50% in recognition of this. Ive considered what I think would be a fair and reasonable offer for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs H by FTRs customer service. And I 
think FTRs offer is fair and reasonable and in line with our approach. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman