DRN-4019943
The complaint
Ms B complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) poor service she experienced 
following a claim under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Ms B discovered a leak in her home. She contacted IPA who sent an engineer. There was a 
delay before the engineer attended, but when they did, they found there to be a leak that 
required access. As Ms Bs policy didnt have trace and access provision, a further delay 
was caused by IPA trying to decide, if Ms B was covered for the trace and access rather 
than the less invasive general access. 
There was an additional further delay which led to Ms B raising a complaint to IPA. In its final 
response, IPA accepted that the service it provided was poor. It accepted that there were 
avoidable delays. It said that it shouldve made a decision regarding the trace and access 
and stuck to it, which it didnt do. So, it apologised, offered to reimburse the outstanding 
work, and requested any invoices that Ms B had, so that it could review them in line with the 
policy terms and conditions and settle them up to the policy limit of £500. 
IPA also offered to pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Ms B was still 
unhappy as she said that she had been without heating and hot water for two months. And 
as she had been given her referral rights, she referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that it 
was clear that IPAs service was poor, and it was right that it offered to reimburse Ms Bs 
costs or carry out the repairs. He also thought the amount of compensation IPA offered, was 
fair. 
IPA accepted the view. Ms B did not. She said that our investigator had applied a narrow 
scope to her complaint. She found the outline concerning and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Ms B, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered both partys comments as well as the policy terms and conditions. Ms Bs 
policy did not have cover for trace and access, the cover that the policy did have was for 
general access. IPA explained that essentially the difference between the two kinds of 
access was that trace and access (which Ms Bs policy didnt have) was a more invasive 
form of investigation. Which could include drilling holes in plasterwork, investigating the 
structure of a building or even reinstating ceilings. General access was less intrusive. 
In any event, IPA said that the decision it took to decide whether Ms B had sufficient cover to 
undertake the trace and access was too long. Consequently, this caused delays to it dealing 
with Ms Bs claim. 
Ms B also describes that she was without heating and hot water for around two months, as a 
result of the delays caused by IPA. Im satisfied that these delays were avoidable, and that 
IPA has accepted this. Im also sure that the delays wouldve caused Ms B a level of distress 
and inconvenience. 
Ms B said that our investigator applied a narrow scope to her complaint, but apart from 
mentioning this, she hasnt expanded on what is actually meant by this. But as IPA has 
accepted that it provided poor service to Ms B (which I agree with) then its only fair and 
reasonable that it compensate Ms B for this error. 
Although I am unclear as to what scope Ms B is referring to, having reviewed the impact of 
IPAs mistake on Ms B, I think the impact was more than just minimal, it required a 
reasonable effort to sort out and lasted a few weeks. I havent been provided with any further 
evidence from Ms B that could show a significant level of disruption or a lot of extra effort to 
sort out. I also note that Ms B had no vulnerability issues. Taking all of this into 
consideration, I do think IPA was fair in its offer of £150 compensation and it wouldve been 
an amount I would have recommended, had it not done so already.  
I understand that the repairs have yet to be completed, but IPA has now agreed to either 
carry out the repairs or reimburse Ms B (if she has now had those repairs completed). Given 
that IPA has now agreed to do this, I think this is reasonable and something that it should 
have initially done. 
Overall, Im satisfied that IP has accepted the poor service it provided to Ms B. And whilst I 
understand how disappointed Ms B will be, I think IPA was fair and reasonable to offer 
compensation of £150, for the trouble and upset caused. As well as agreeing to carry out the 
repairs or reimburse Ms Bs costs on production of an invoice. Accordingly, I cant 
reasonably ask IPA to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman