DRN-1768905
 
The complaint
Mrs U complains that she was mis-sold a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). 
What happened
Mrs U took out a credit card in November 2003. Six months later after the credit card was 
agreed and used she was sold a PPI policy over the phone by Barclays. 
The policy cost 0.79p per £100 of the balance on Mrs Us credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the credit card for up to 12 
months per claim if Mrs U was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought because the policy 
was added some time after the credit card was taken out Mrs U wouldve understood it was 
optional and that the policy provided a useful benefit. 
Mrs U disagrees, she says she never asked for PPI so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mrs Us 
complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Us complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mrs U she had a choice in taking the policy and that she 
chose to take it. The policy was sold over the phone six months after Mrs Us credit card 
account was opened. I dont know what was discussed with Mrs U at the time she was sold 
the policy but Ive seen a copy of her original credit card application where she was given the 
option to select to take PPI or decline it. I can see Mrs U didnt select to take PPI at the time 
she applied for her credit card. 
But because PPI was applied to Mrs Us account months after the credit card account was 
opened and she was given the option to take PPI on her credit card application, I think she 
wouldve understood she didnt have to take PPI to have the credit card. And I think PPI was 
likely applied to her account because following a phone call with Barclays she chose to take 
it. Though I can understand given the length of time that has passed why she may not 
remember this.
If Mrs U hadnt agreed to PPI I wouldve expected her to question why Optional Payment 
Protection was showing on her monthly statements and for her to have cancelled the policy a lot sooner than she did in 2010. 
I dont know if Barclays recommended Mrs U take the policy so to be fair to Mrs U I am going 
to treat the sale as if Barclays advised Mrs U to take the policy. What this means is that 
Barclays not only had to provide information about the policy in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that Mrs U could make an informed choice about buying it. It also had to 
make sure that if it were to recommend the policy that it was suitable to her needs and 
circumstances.
I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs U for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mrs U says she was entitled to sick pay and had savings which 
she could use to make her repayments if she couldnt work. But the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of this and covered her for longer - up to 12 months if she was unable 
to work or lost her job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs 
U in her circumstances. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time. And 
if she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it which she eventually did.
 
I also need to consider whether Barclays gave Mrs U information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she 
wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if Barclays did provide all the proper information but even if it hadnt for the 
same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs U has told us about her 
circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the policy if shed been given 
all the proper information on it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs U or refund 
any interest and charges applied to her credit card that may have been incurred because 
of those premiums.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs U because in 2017, following 
a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued some new rules 
about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Barclays said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it refunded the extra Mrs U paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI premium. It 
also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mrs U for any time she was out of pocket. 
In this case I think Barclayss offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs U.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs U any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman