DRN-3631792
The complaint
Ms F has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed one of her 
accounts without notice. She says this caused another of her accounts to go overdrawn and 
meant she missed payments. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my 
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
Ms F had a charge card account with NatWest. With this type of account, the balance must 
be repaid in full each month. In late 2020 Ms F had an £8,100 balance and she was unable 
to pay it as her income had been impacted by the pandemic. To assist Ms F, NatWest 
agreed to transfer the balance to a repayment account. This meant the balance wouldnt 
incur interest and Ms F could repay it over 18 months, at about £450 a month. I find this was 
a positive action on the part of NatWest. Although the repayment account would show as in 
arrears - given it was more akin to an unauthorised overdraft than a loan  the alternative 
was for NatWest to default the charge card account. Ms F is concerned about her credit file 
so Im satisfied given the choice, she would have chosen the repayment plan. 
In March 2021, Ms F couldnt afford to continue paying the about £450 a month. She asked 
for a payment to be reversed. This took a little while, but NatWest paid her £100 
compensation in recognition of this, which I consider fair. 
Later in March 2021, despite Ms F being given no warning, NatWest considered the 
repayment plan  for her to pay £450 a month  to be broken. And despite knowing Ms F 
was in financial difficulty, it proceeded to debit Ms F main current account by £5,400 to clear 
the repayment account. This had the effect of removing all of Ms F available funds and 
taking her significantly over her agreed overdraft limit, which led to numerous problems and 
some direct, albeit minor, costs. These included, but arent limited to: Ms F couldnt pay her 
bills, including her mortgage  which resulted in a charge; Ms F had no access to money 
initially, and then only £500 of emergency cash NatWest provided (which she had to collect 
from a branch); and Ms F says she was so shocked and worried she had a panic attack. I 
find NatWest caused Ms F significant distress and inconvenience here.
That being said, Im not persuaded the alternative  leaving the current account alone and 
defaulting the repayment account  would have been preferrable to Ms F, given her 
concerns about her credit file. So, Ive considered what would have happened differently if 
Ms F had been told what would happen. Having done so, Im not persuaded she could have 
avoided her main current account being debited and her repayment account being cleared. 
I say this because Ms F couldnt afford to keep to the repayment plan. She most likely could, 
however, have mitigated the impact. Ms F could, for example, have made alternative 
arrangements for her bills, or moved some money elsewhere so she had access to funds. 
And of course, she wouldnt have experienced the shock and worry she did.
I accept Ms F remains concerned her main current account is showing as in arrears on her 
credit file while she pays down her unarranged overdraft. But the account is in arrears and 
from the data NatWest has provided, Im satisfied its reporting that although in arrears, there 
is a payment arrangement in place. 
Ms F understandably wants to avoid adverse information on her credit file, but theres no 
scope for that here. She had a debt which she couldnt repay in the way she was supposed 
to. As things stand, however, she has avoided a default and is repaying her debt in an 
affordable manner, without incurring interest or charges. Taking all of the above into 
account, I dont intend to require NatWest to make any changes to Ms Fs accounts or her 
credit file.
NatWest offered Ms F £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
she was caused. The investigator didnt consider this enough and so recommended £300 
compensation. In light of my findings as set out above, and to take into account the minor 
direct costs Ms F incurred, I intend to require NatWest to pay Ms F £500 compensation. 
NatWest didnt respond to the provisional decision.
Ms F responded to say that there were factual inaccuracies in the provisional decision. She 
forwarded her own timeline of events, which she said highlighted this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I acknowledge the timeline and considerations raised by Ms F, I am 
satisfied the redress I have proposed is fair. 
Ms F has also said that my provisional decision is factually incorrect but hasnt pointed to 
anything in particular. I have considered the timeline she has provided as well as the rest of 
the file, and I am satisfied with what I set out. £100 was paid in March 2021 as an apology 
for errors and misinformation. A further £100 has been offered since the case was brought to 
this service.
She has highlighted the impact that this had on her, especially at the end of April 2021 and 
start of May 2021. However, I believe that £500 is fair compensation for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. To put things right, National Westminster 
Bank Plc should pay Ms F £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 Yoni Smith
Ombudsman