DRN-4196648
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement provided by BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited  trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMWFS).
What happened
In November 2021 Mr R entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS in order to 
acquire a used car. The car was around six years old and had covered around 58,354 miles.
The car cost £34,418.24, a deposit was recorded on the finance agreement of £500 and Mr 
R was due to make regular payments of £588.40 per month for 48 months, with a final 
repayment of £14,266.50 if he wanted to keep the car.
Unfortunately, a few days after Mr R collected the car he says an engine management light 
(EML) appeared. He says this was intermittent, and the car was returned to the dealer in 
December 2021. 
Mr R says he got the car back the same month, but the EML returned. He says the dealer 
told him the EML was in relation to the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) and says he was 
advised to take the car on a longer journey to clear it.
Mr R says he followed the advice, but the EML continued to be an issue and the car was 
again returned to the dealer to look at. The dealer booked the car in with a manufacturers 
garage, who inspected the car and did various tests. This garage advised the DPF should be 
removed to be inspected and recommended other tests to be carried out.
The dealer told Mr R that the recommended work had been completed and the car was 
returned to him in March 2022. Mr R says the EML wasnt present and did not return  so he 
assumed the issue was fixed. But, Mr R says he didnt receive any paperwork for the repairs 
carried out.
At the beginning of July 2022 the car broke down and needed to be recovered. Mr R says 
the dealer couldnt look at the car for a number of weeks. The car was taken to a couple of 
different garages, but it doesnt appear it could be seen, before being taken back to the 
dealer. 
The dealer noted that it believed the car had way too much oil in and the crank shaft could 
be snapped. The dealer later did further investigation and said the engine had suffered a 
catastrophic failure. 
Mr R complained to BMWFS. An independent inspection was then carried out on the car at 
the end of September 2022. The mileage at this point was recorded as 64,129. This 
inspection, in summary, said that the engine had suffered excessive damage to bearing 
shells and crankshaft journals. The inspector believed at some point in the past the car had 
been run with insufficient oil in. It said this had likely been the case for hundreds or likely 
thousands of miles. It said it was likely the damage was due to driver error.
The dealer said it believed the car would have given Mr R a warning light to say it was low 
on oil, which it said he had ignored. It said it thought Mr R had then panicked when the car 
broke down and overfilled the car with oil before it was moved back to the dealer.
BMWFS issued its final response in October 2022. This said, in summary, that the faults 
werent present at the point of sale and it believed the car was reasonably durable.
Mr R was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. Mr R said, in 
summary, that he had never had any warning lights about oil and so never topped up. He 
said He didnt think the DPF was ever repaired and the issue had been masked up. He said 
he had spoken to the manufacturer of the car, who told him if the DPF had failed, this could 
cause the oil level to rise. 
Our investigator issued an opinion. She said, in summary, that she thought the later issues 
with the car were likely linked to the earlier issues with the DPF. She said she thought this 
meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied and so Mr R should be able 
to reject it. She said he should get back his repayments made from July 2022, be 
reimbursed for the cost of cancelling his insurance, be reimbursed £170 for towing costs and 
she said BMWFS should pay Mr R £150 to reflect what happened.
Mr R got in touch and said he mostly agreed with the view. But, he said he should be 
reimbursed various other costs. These included insurance, tax, additional towing costs, his 
monthly payment for the time he had a courtesy car, the cost of transferring a private plate 
and some funds towards a second car he had to buy. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Rs comments and said, in addition to what shed previously 
recommended, Mr R should be reimbursed - the costs of insuring and taxing this car once 
hed bought the second one, £250 for the towing costs, £80 to remove a private plate and 
20% of the February 2022 payment from when he had the courtesy car. She also said, 
having reviewed things, that BMWFS should pay him £250 to reflect what happened.
BMWFS then also responded. It said, in summary, that neither the MOT history nor the 
manufacturer had noted an oil leak. It said there was no evidence to say the car was sold 
with engine failure. It said the DPF and oil issue werent the same and it pointed to the 
conclusions of the independent report.
As BMWFS disagreed, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I should start by explaining to both parties that I may not comment on every point raised nor 
every piece of evidence and testimony. Where I havent, this doesnt mean I consider 
something unimportant. Ive carefully thought about all of the information on the case. But, 
my decision will focus on what I consider to be the crux of Mr Rs complaint along with what I 
think are the key facts and evidence. This approach reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
Mr R complains about the quality of a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. 
Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, 
so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Rs complaint against BMWFS.When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  BMWFS here  has a responsibility 
to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill consider that the car Mr R acquired was around six years old 
and had covered over 58,000 miles. So, I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to 
be in the same condition as a newer, less road worn car. And I think they would expect parts 
of the car to have suffered some wear and tear. 
But, that being said, the car also cost over £34,000. So, I think a reasonable person would 
expect it to have been free from anything other than very minor faults and would expect 
trouble free motoring for some time.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car was of satisfactory quality or not. 
It isnt in dispute here that the car developed a fault. All parties acknowledge there was an 
initial issue with an EML/DPF and a later one with the engine failing. And I can also see this 
was the case from the job sheets and the independent report.
Our investigator felt the earlier issue with the DPF led to the later issue with the engine 
failing. BMWFS and the dealer have said that Mr R ran the car without oil in, ignoring a 
warning light, which led to the engine failure. So, I need to think about what likely happened 
here.
Ive firstly considered the initial issue with the DPF. The job sheet from the manufacturers 
garage said:
CHECKED ELETRICAL CONNECTORS ALL OK
CHECKED TEMP SENSORS ALL OK CHECKED COMPRESSION ALL OK
UPDATED SOFTWARE BUT FAULT STILL PRESENT ADVISE TO REMOVE DPF FOR 
INSPECTION. CARRY OUT INJECTOR, TURBO AND SMOKE TESTS OF THE INTAKE 
SYSTEMS 
Ive seen an invoice from a third party company that says:
Dpf clean on the (manufacturer) dpf
Reset system
And then Ive seen a job sheet from the dealer that says:
removed intake pipe and plug smoke Tester in no leaks on intake system exhaust system 
smoke Test passed fine
Mr R has confirmed once the car was handed back to him, the EML had gone off and the 
issue didnt return. So, it might appear that the dealer referred the issue to the manufacturer 
and then followed the manufacturers guidance, leading to an initially successful repair. Ive gone on to consider what Mr R said here. He believes the DPF wasnt repaired and the 
issue was masked over. In summary, hes made various points about the work completed, 
including questioning the validity of the job sheets for numerous reasons.
Having thought carefully about this, I will say I can understand Mr Rs scepticism here. I say 
this for a couple of reasons  there are some discrepancies around the dates on the job 
sheets and invoice. For instance, the information from the third party about the DPF clean is 
dated after the job sheet from the dealer going through the work which was to be carried out 
following this. 
Mr R has given us a detailed timeline of what he says happened, and has said the 
paperwork from the dealer and the third party are dated after the point where he got the car 
back. And, having looked at the third partys website, they are very clearly a remapping 
specialist. The website advertises DPF solutions, along with various ECU mapping and 
tuning, but no other vehicle servicing or mechanical work is offered. 
There is an earlier invoice, for significantly less money, from another remapping specialist 
that does appear to offer DPF cleaning. But the invoice simply says repair.
That being said, I dont think I need to make a finding on what happened here  Ill explain 
why further below.
Ive then considered what happened when the engine failed. 
There is a job sheet from the dealer which explains:
CAR HAS WAY TOO MUCH OIL IN SEE DIP STICK
The independent report explained:
We believe that, at some time in the past, this vehicle has suffered from cavitation of the oil 
which has reduced the oil flow around the engine causing accelerated engine bearing 
wear/erosion
Cavitation of the oil is usually caused by the vehicle having been run with insufficient oil in
with the level of wear confirming to us that the vehicle been driven on in a distressed 
condition for multiple hundreds and will likely multiple thousands of miles
Checking oil on a regular basis as the vehicles owners responsibility leading us to 
conclusion that the engine damage is employed by driver error rather than a mechanical 
failure
So, in summary, the dealer noted a high level of oil, while the independent report said the 
engine showed a high level of wear that was consistent with being driven with oil cavitation 
for a significant period. And it said this was usually caused by a low oil level. It is worth 
pointing out however that this is noted as being at some point in the past, as opposed to 
stating this was likely directly before the engine failed.
The dealer said it thought Mr R had run the car with too little oil, and then had panicked and 
overfilled the oil when the engine failed. 
Mr R directly disputed this. And he explained he had spoken to the manufacturer who had 
said, in summary, that if the DPF failed and couldnt regenerate, then this could cause fuel to 
mix with the oil  increasing the volume and causing issues with the engine.This also reflects my own understanding here, which is that if a DPF is clogged, this can 
increase exhaust gas pressure, which can force fuel into the oil system. Its also worth 
explaining here that, while the independent report explained oil cavitation is usually caused 
by low oil, I understand this can also be caused by oil levels being too high  as this can 
cause bubbles to form.
Ive carefully thought about all of this. Having done so, I dont think that the investigators 
opinion that the later engine failure was linked to the earlier DPF issue was unreasonable. I 
say this as the high oil level found can reasonably be explained by the DPF failing and not 
regenerating. 
This same logic would apply whatever the reason for the DPF failure. So, if the DPF failed 
due to the later failure of an initially successful repair, an underlying issue with the DPF 
which wasnt repaired, or if the repair in fact didnt take place - and the DPF warning system 
had instead been bypassed as Mr R seems to allege - all of these could cause the issues 
seen.
Ive considered that the DPF issues initially appeared very soon after Mr R got the car. So, 
Im satisfied this means the car had a fault that was present or developing at the point of 
supply. If any of the above scenarios were correct, Im satisfied this would mean the later 
engine failure was due to an earlier issue that was present or developing at the point of 
supply. It follows this means the car would not have been of satisfactory quality when Mr R 
got it.
All of that being said, I appreciate this is somewhat finely balanced. And so Ive considered 
what BMWFS and the dealer said here  that Mr R drove the car with too little oil and then 
topped up too much. 
But, having done so, I dont find this version of events persuasive. I say this as Mr R has 
been consistent with what hes said here. Hes given us a detailed timeline of events and 
provided a lot of evidence to back up what hes said. 
Ive also thought about his actions. Mr R quickly complained and took action to arrange 
attempted repairs, on multiple occasions, when the EML appeared in relation to the DPF. 
Given this, I cant see why he would then ignore another EML about oil levels, continue to 
drive the car for potentially thousands of miles until the engine failed, mistakenly top up too 
much oil and then, to be blunt, lie about what had happened  -in detail - to the dealer, 
BMWFS and our service.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied a few things may have happened here. Its possible 
the damage to the engine was directly caused by the DPF failing. Or its possible engine 
damage was caused before Mr R got the car due to the engine being run with low oil  which 
then came to light due to the DPF failing. Its again worth noting here that the independent 
inspection stated:
We believe that, at some time in the past, this vehicle has suffered from cavitation of the 
oil (emphasis added by myself)
As Ive explained before, the DPF couldve failed for various reasons. But, whatever 
happened here, the key thing is that, on balance, I think its more likely the engine failed due 
to one of these scenarios, rather than what was put forward by the dealer and BMWFS.
It follows all of this that Im satisfied the car supplied to Mr R wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
I want to reassure BMWFS that Ive carefully considered all of the other information and 
comments its provided, including all of the arguments put forward by the dealer. But this 
doesnt change my opinion.Ive then gone on to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right.
Repairs have already been completed or attempted. Im satisfied any further repairs could be 
very costly given the issues. And Ive considered the time Mr R has already been without the 
car. Thinking about all of this, I agree with our investigator that Mr R has a right under the 
CRA to now reject the car.
Its worth adding a note here about the deposit which Mr R is due back. The credit 
agreement shows an advance payment of £500, which is what our investigator originally 
told BMWFS to reimburse Mr R. In their second view, our investigator said Mr R had shown 
evidence he paid a total deposit of £1,100. She said hed carried £235 negative equity over 
from part exchanging his previous car  which meant it appeared Mr R had actually paid 
£865 as a deposit. Our investigator asked BMWFS for an explanation of what happened 
here, but it didnt comment.
Ive seen a copy of the sales invoice that BMWFS provided to our service, which presumably 
was sent to it by the dealer. Here, its recorded Mr Rs previous car has a part exchange 
value of £16,400 and finance to be settled of £16,400. Its then recorded that Mr R paid a 
deposit of £500. £500 is also what appears on the credit agreement.
But, Mr R has provided another invoice from the dealer, with very similar details. But, this 
records a part exchange value of £16,400, a finance settlement of around £16,635 and a 
total deposit paid of £1,100. The cash price of the car is also slightly higher on this invoice.
Thinking about this, Im more persuaded that Mr R did in fact pay an initial total of £1,100. I 
say this as hes also provided a customer receipt from the dealer showing this, and a card 
receipt for part of the deposit showing he paid the dealer £1,000.
BMWFS, when asked, hasnt given any explanation here. Its hard to say exactly what 
happened. But, given the conflicting evidence, and lack of a response from BMWFS, I agree 
with our investigator its fair for Mr R to receive £865. I dont think its reasonable to give the 
full £1,100, as this would put him in a better position than he wouldve been in originally, as it 
appears he was in negative equity on his previous agreement.
Thinking about Mr Rs use of the car, Im satisfied he stopped driving it on 4 July 2022. So, 
any payments made towards the agreement from this time should be reimbursed. Mr R was 
also given a courtesy car for the time his car was being worked on in February 2022. Hes 
shown pictures that appear to show this car had bald tyres, so I think his explanation that he 
didnt use this car as much as he normally would have is reasonable. I agree with our 
investigator that BMWFS should reimburse him 20% of February 2022s repayment to reflect 
this.
Mr R has also had some additional expenses he otherwise wouldnt have, had the car been 
of satisfactory quality. He has shown three towing receipts from July and August 2022 
totalling £250 which should be reimbursed. 
While it was Mr Rs responsibility to tax and insure the car, I also agree with our investigator 
that it doesnt seem reasonable that he was covering the cost of this for two cars when he 
stopped driving this one and had to acquire another. 
So, BMWFS should reimburse Mr R the equivalent of £139.82 per month for his insurance 
and £27.56 for tax, from August 2022 when he acquired the second car, to November 2022 
when he declared this car SORN and cancelled the insurance. I also agree with our 
investigator that its reasonable BMWFS cover the cancellation fee from this insurance 
policy.Im satisfied that Mr R has suffered distress and inconvenience because of what happened. 
Hes been without his car for a significant period, has had to deal with the car breaking down 
and has had to spend time and effort sourcing a second car to provide transport for his 
family. I agree BMWFS should pay him £250 to reflect this.
Mr R has said he believes BMWFS should contribute to the cost of the car he acquired when 
this one broke down. But, I dont think this is reasonable. Mr R is getting back the monthly 
repayments as Ive directed, which should cover the cost of alternative transport. And 
although I understand the second car has had issues, this isnt the responsibility of BMWFS.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited  trading as Alphera Financial Services to put things right by doing the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr R
Reimburse Mr Rs deposit of £865*
Reimburse Mr R all repayments towards the agreement from 4 July 2022*
Reimburse Mr R 20% of the February 2022 repayment*
Reimburse Mr Rs monthly insurance premiums of £139.82 between August 2022 
and November 2022*
Reimburse Mr Rs cancellation fee for his insurance policy on this car* **
Reimburse Mr Rs monthly car tax cost of £27.56 between August 2022 and 
November 2022*
Reimburse the cost of transferring/removing the private plate from this car* **
Reimburse Mr Rs total towing costs of £250 from 22 January 2023 * ***
Pay Mr R £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file in relation to this agreement
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate
**on receipt of evidence by BMWFS of these costs from Mr R
*** This is the date the invoice shows Mr R paid these expenses, rather than the date the 
costs were incurred. For the purposes of the 8% interest above, this is the correct date to 
use
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman