DRN-4302642
The complaint
Mr P complains that he had problems when he tried to open his account with TSB Bank plc 
as part of a switch incentive. He further complained that TSB delayed in complying with his 
subject access request and of problems trying to register with Internet banking.
What happened
Mr P made an application to switch his account to TSB in February 2023. However he had 
difficulties opening the account and had to contact TSB who helped him open the account 
through a video banking application, which he found inconvenient. He then wasn't able to log 
into his account and had to contact TSB again who advised him on how to log in to the new 
account. He was also concerned that transactions were taking longer than normal to register 
on his account and he might not qualify for the incentive, which required him to carry out a 
minimum number of debit card transactions a month.
Mr P made a complaint to TSB concerning the problems he had. He subsequently made a 
data subject access request for telephone calls which TSB did not respond to within the time 
frame allowed. TSB apologised for the poor service in respect of the long waits he had on 
telephone calls and in not registering his complaint when he asked it to. It paid him £75 for 
the inconvenience. It did not uphold his other complaints, in particular it said that it had paid 
him the first part of the incentive payment and that he was still on track to receive the second 
part.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that he thought that 
TSB had done all that it could to resolve Mr Ps complaints, and that it had paid an 
appropriate amount of compensation. 
Mr P did not agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P's complaints were:
He experienced difficulties trying to open his account online.
He tried and failed three times to log into his account.
He was not provided with the sort code and the account number.
He was concerned that transactions were taking longer than normal to register on his 
account and he might not qualify for the incentive, needing to carry out a minimum 
number of debit card transactions a month.
He spent hours on the phone to TSB with lengthy holds.
TSB failed to register his complaint.
opening the account
Mr P said he couldn't open the account online so had to spend some time on the telephone 
with TSB. I note however that TSB was able to help him and it opened the account for him 
using a video banking application. Whilst I note it was not Mr Ps preference and it was 
inconvenient, I think that TSB acted appropriately in sorting this out for him.
logging on to the account
I know that Mr P was unable to do this online. As I understand it this was because his 
account was not yet fully activated and initially he had to register rather than log into his 
account. I appreciate that he had to telephone TSB to get this information, but I nevertheless 
think that it gave the right amount of help to him.
provision of sort code and account number
I understand that TSB confirmed that this was on the initial email Mr P received a few pages 
down, and it also provided this to him on 20 February 2023 during his application.
concern that the transactions were taking too long and that he might not qualify for the 
incentive payment
I note that Mr P was paid £125 on 17 April 2023 which was the first part of the incentive 
payment. And that to qualify for the additional £75, the two active direct debits needed to 
remain on the account, Mr P needed to make five debit card payments each month and his 
account credited with £500 each month from 01 April  30 September 2023.
At the time of making his complaint I note Mr P had received the first payment and was on 
track to get the second payment. I can't see that TSB did anything wrong here.
spending hours on the phone
I note that TSB was experiencing high volumes of calls. I have particularly noted that during 
calls customers could be put on hold for lengthy periods. In Mr P's case I understand that 
this caused him frustration and inconvenience. But I think that the payment of £75 was a fair 
and reasonable award of compensation for this. If Mr P incurred extra expenses through his 
phone bill or by having to visit the branch, TSB has offered to consider this on receipt of the 
appropriate bills etc. I think that was a reasonable offer.
registering complaint
TSB acknowledged this but has confirmed that it registered the complaint and backdated it 
to February 2023.
delay in responding to a subject access request
Mr P made a request for recordings of phone calls during a phone call on 24 April 2023. 
Unfortunately this was missed, but TSB did action the request when it responded to his 
complaint on 30 May 2023. I won't make any additional award for compensation in respect of 
this, as I think this was a simple oversight.Overall I think that TSB responded to Mr Ps complaint points adequately and that it's paid 
him a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in respect of the poor service provided 
concerning phone calls, the delay in actioning his complaint, and in responding to his subject 
access request.
My final decision
As I think that TSB Bank plc has paid Mr P an adequate amount of compensation, i won't 
require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman