DRN-4042524
The complaint
Mr A complains The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation Ltd unfairly declined his 
self-storage claim.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr A claimed against his Salvation Army self-storage insurance policy. 
He claimed for goods in storage being damaged by vermin. Initially Salvation Army declined 
part of the claim  for perishable and food items. It said the policy excluded perishable 
goods. It later declined the full claim  saying the policy only covers damage caused by 
vermin from a source outside of the premises. Salvation Army said there was no evidence to 
demonstrate they were from outside. 
Salvation Army responded to a complaint from Mr A. It said, whilst it now understood, he 
hadnt claimed for food and perishable goods, some were stored in the unit. It said this was 
against the terms of his agreement with the storage provider. This in turn meant Mr A had 
breached Salvation Armys policy acceptance criteria. So it had avoided his policy (treating it 
as though had never existed), returned the premium and declined the claim. 
In response Mr A provided a storage agreement that showed he was allowed to keep food or 
perishable goods if they are securely packed so that they are protected from, and do not 
attract, vermin. Salvation Army said there was no evidence this requirement had been met  
it said Mr A had prejudiced its position by destroying the goods before its loss adjuster had 
made a site visit. Mr A wasnt satisfied, so came to this service. He would like the claim to be 
paid, adding he lost income as the decline meant his business couldnt carry on with its 
trade.  
In November 2022 our investigator said Salvation Army hadnt shown the vermin were from 
outside the premises. So she recommended it settle the claim, except for any food or 
perishable items. Mr A accepted that, but Salvation Army didnt. It said the investigator had 
failed to consider all its reasons for declining the claim. She went on to consider further 
reasons, related to Mr As storage lease agreement terms and Salvation Armys acceptance 
criteria. She still felt the claim should be settled. As Salvation Army didnt agree the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In March 2023 I told both parties I intended to uphold the complaint for similar reasons to the 
investigator  and would give further reasoning in my final decision. I explained I thought it 
unfair for Salvation Army to have avoided the policy, so my intention was to require it be 
reinstated. I also said I would require simple interest, at 8%, be added to the final claim 
settlement. Finally I said £300 would be awarded to recognise the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience the claim decline and policy avoidance had caused Mr A. Salvation Army 
responded to say it didnt accept my position that the claim should be paid. It provided a 
range of comments. These were mainly focused on its belief Mr A hadnt done enough to 
show a claim was payable  including compliance with the storage lease agreement and 
policy terms. Ive considered those latest comments, addressing them below where I feel it 
necessary. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered this complaint based on the balance of probability. That means Ive 
considered the information provided to decide what I think most likely happened. 
Salvation Army says theres nothing to show the perishable goods and food was stored as 
required by the storage agreement - securely packed so that they are protected from and do 
not attract vermin. Theres little to confirm how the food items were packed and stored. We 
have Mr As account they were securely stored in manufacturer packaging  sealed packets, 
boxes and tins - and kept at a raised level. He feels its reasonable to assume this would be 
sufficient.   
Theres only one photo of the food goods. These are shown stored in standard manufacturer 
boxes. They are drinks usually sold in glass bottles, so in this instance Id say thats enough 
to meet the storage agreement. Whilst its only a single photo it does support Mr As 
description of the storage. 
 
Salvation Army says Mr A prejudiced its position by removing the food and perishable goods 
before its visit. Its referred to a term of the policy that requires him not dispose of any 
damaged items before its had the opportunity to inspect them. He says he got rid of the 
items on the advice of environmental health (EH). 
Ive seen, from Salvation Armys phone call note on the day Mr A made his claim, he was 
told to ensure he keeps all the items except for perishable food. An email on the same day, 
from Salvation Army, explains it requires photos of the damage that has occurred to the 
items. But in the same email its explained perishable goods arent covered. So I can 
understand why Mr A disposed of these goods without taking any photos.  
If Salvation Army considered it a possibility it would refuse the full claim and avoid the policy, 
because of how those items were packaged, it would have been reasonable for it to have 
asked Mr A to photograph or retain them. Hes not to blame for it failing to do so. Neither is 
fair for Salvation Army to later say he prejudiced its position as a result.   
In its latest submission Salvation Armys said Mr A hasnt provided sufficient evidence. It 
claims he hasnt supported the involvement of an EH officer. But in September 2021 it said, 
in an email to Mr A, its loss adjusters waiting for him to complete enquiries with EH. The 
loss adjuster seems to have been satisfied. The following month his report says 
Independent enquiries were made of the local EH officers and their verbal advice was that 
all stock would be categorised as contaminated .. 
Salvation Army has also said Mr A hasnt provided an invoice for the cost of disposable of 
the perishable goods. I accept I may have missed something, but having read its claim files I 
havent seen that it ever requested this from him. 
Overall Salvation Army hasnt provided much, if anything beyond speculation, to show the 
goods werent stored in line with the storage agreement. On balance Im more persuaded by 
Mr As account that he did store the food items in a way that met the storage agreement 
requirements. It follows that I dont feel its fair for it to avoid (or cancel) the policy and 
decline the claim for failing to meet those criteria. 
So to put things right Salvation Army will need to reinstate the policy, removing any records 
from internal or external databases of it having cancelled or avoided it. Ive next considered Salvation Armys remaining reasons for declining the claim. Mr As 
policy covers his storage contents against loss or damage by vermin from a source outside 
of the premises.
The policy defines storage contents. It says this doesnt include food or perishable goods. 
So regardless of anything else, those items arent covered by the policy. So I cant say 
Salvation Armys refusal to decline that part of the claim was unfair. 
Salvation Armys loss adjusters report states Mr A was able to determine that the majority 
of the stock had been contaminated/damaged by the rats and was able to supply a detailed 
spreadsheet of all damaged stock. So it seems Mr A demonstrated to the loss adjuster his 
storage contents were damaged by vermin. But Salvation Army declined the claim based on 
a failure to meet the final part of the cover  ie that the rats must be from a source outside of 
the premises. 
This service has been provided with two versions of the full policy terms. The one tagged as 
V4 05 21 seems most likely to be the version in place when Mr As policy started in June 21. 
So thats the version Im referring to for this decision. The other appears to be an earlier 
version  being V2 05 20. I raise this as the two have slightly different definitions of 
premises. 
The definition of premises has been central to Salvation Armys decline of the claim. The 
relevant policy terms define it as the address of the Self-storage or managed Storage 
Company shown in the schedule. Salvation Armys referred to a different definition, from the 
earlier policy, in its correspondence. But if Im to consider the claim fairly, I need to refer to 
the correct and relevant version. 
Salvation Armys loss adjusters initial opinion was rodents had entered Mr As storage unit 
after escaping from packaging of a delivery to a neighbouring one. Salvation Army later said 
this was just based on Mr As speculation. Its since said theres no evidence of rats being 
present elsewhere in the storage facility. It presents this as evidence they werent from 
outside the premises. However, for me it supports the position they most likely were  if they 
were from inside the premises other units would likely have experienced them. 
So it seems likely the rats were most likely from a source outside the storage premises. And 
even if the earlier premises definition applied, Id still come to the same outcome - that 
considers premises to be Mr As individual storage unit. This means the loss, excluding the 
perishable goods, should be covered by the policy. 
Based on this Salvation Armys decline of the claim was unfair and unreasonable. So it will 
need to settle Mr As claim (excluding any food or perishable items). It has his spreadsheet 
of damaged items. As Mr As been unfairly without those funds for some time, it will need to 
add simple interest, at 8%, from the date of claim to the date of payment. Salvation Army 
can deduct any refunded premium from the final settlement. 
Finally the decline of claim and avoidance has clearly caused some distress and 
inconvenience to Mr A. Hes said it made it difficult to continue with his trade. That will likely 
have been distressing for him. Making any alternative arrangements, in the absence of the 
claim payment, will no doubt have been an inconvenience. To recognise the impact of this, 
Salvation Army shall pay him £300 compensation. It seems it may have previously paid him 
£75 compensation. If it did, it can deduct the amount paid from the compensation due. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is The Salvation Army General Insurance 
Corporation Ltd needs to: 
reinstate Mr As avoided (or cancelled) policy and remove any internal or external of 
it being avoided (or cancelled) by Salvation Army,
settle Mr As claim for loss (not including food or perishable items). If it chooses to it 
can deduct any refunded premium. It will need to add simple interest at 8% to the 
final amount from the date of claim to the date of settlement*.
pay Mr A £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience (deducting £75 if paid 
previously). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman