DRN-3492273
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought a points-based timeshare membership from a business, Ill call 
Business C, in July 2004 (the Time of Sale"). The cost of the membership was £42,336 
and that was partly paid with a loan of £38,341 taken with First National Consumer Finance 
Limited (which later became GE Money). The loan was in joint names and set to run for 15 
years. The proceeds of the loan werent paid to Business C, but to a different business, Ill 
call Business R. 
At the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs H said they were told that they would be able to book 
holidays based on the points they held, be offered luxury accommodation and hold their 
membership in perpetuity, enabling them to transfer it to their children with no additional 
costs. They said the membership was sold to them as a long-term family investment. 
Mr and Mrs H alleged Business C misrepresented to them, at the Time of Sale, the 
availability of accommodation, the standard of the accommodation and their ability to 
transfer their membership. They said all of this meant Business C breached its agreement 
with them. Mr and Mrs H said that, had they known what Business C said wasnt right, they 
wouldnt have taken out the membership in the first place.
In January 2018, Mr and Mrs H, using a professional representative (PR), complained to 
GE Money. It responded to say it had limited information on its systems about Mr and 
Mrs Hs loan due to the time that had passed. As the sale took place many years before the 
complaint, GE Money said that meant the complaint had been brought too late under the 
relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also noted that the loan 
proceeds had been paid to Business R and not Business C, so it didnt think there were the 
right types of agreements in place for the CCA to apply to this complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They said Mr and Mrs H werent able to make a claim under s.75 CCA as 
the value of the timeshare meant that provision didnt apply. They considered the claim 
under s.140A CCA and thought it had been brought too late, so they didnt think GE Money 
needed to consider the substance of the claim. 
PR responded to the view to say, on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf, that it disagreed with the view. It 
said, amongst other things:
the loan taken with GE Money had been paid off in July 2005;
Mr and Mrs H had a separate claim under s.75A CCA as the purchase price was 
over £30,000;
Mr and Mrs H had made a claim against the timeshare supplier in the Spanish court 
and the agreement had been declared null and void. It followed that the agreement 
no longer existed; and
why it thought the complaint had been brought in time under both the LA and the 
rules that govern how complaints are dealt with by our service.
As Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the view, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
a decision.
An ombudsman issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. She explained 
that she agreed that GE Money didnt need to do anything more, but for different reasons. 
So she set out why she thought that and asked for comments from both parties. 
The ombudsman considered GE Moneys argument that, as Business R were paid the loan 
proceeds rather than Business C, the provisions of the CCA cited in making the claims didnt 
apply. She thought it was possible a court would conclude there were the right arrangements 
in place to be able to make the claims, but she concluded that she didnt need to make a 
finding on that issue as, even if the provisions of the CCA did apply, she didnt think GE 
Money needed to do anything further.
The ombudsman noted that the cost of the membership bought was over £30,000, and so 
s.75 CCA couldnt apply to Mr and Mrs Hs agreement. But she went on to consider the 
claim made under s.75A CCA, which can make the creditor (here GE Money) jointly liable for 
some breaches of contract where the price of the goods or services is above £30,000. Here 
it was said that Company C going into administration led to a breach of contract. 
The ombudsman didnt think s.75A CCA assisted Mr and Mrs H though. She noted the fact 
that Company C has gone into administration didnt mean that there is an automatic breach 
of contract. Further, Mr and Mrs H hadnt pointed to anything specific they said they were 
entitled to under the membership that they were no longer entitled to after Company Cs 
insolvency. 
She also said that Mr and Mrs H pointed to a judgment in a Spanish court that they say 
meant their agreement with Company C has been nullified. She thought this meant they had 
rescinded their agreement with Company C and were to be put back in the position they 
would have been had they not entered into the contract. So she didnt think there was a 
contract in place to breach when Company C went into administration.
The ombudsman also considered Mr and Mrs Hs claim under s.140A CCA, but that has now 
been considered in a different decision, so I wont comment on it further.
GE Money responded to say it agreed with what our ombudsman said. PR responded with 
further submissions. Those submissions are lengthy and it isnt possible to set them out in 
detail, but in summary it further set out concerns with Business Cs corporate structure, how 
there was an actionable breach of contract and how limitation periods could be extended.
Unfortunately, the ombudsman who issued the provisional decision wasnt able to issue a 
final decision on the complaint. So I contacted both parties to explain that I had read and 
considered all of the available evidence and arguments and agreed with what the first 
ombudsman had said. I addressed some of the points raised by Mr and Mrs Hs 
representative and invited any further comments they wanted me to consider before I issued 
a final decision. Both parties explained they had no further submissions to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs H, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs H to make a claim under the 
CCA?
Under s.75A CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement in this case, as 
the supplier of the timeshare was Business C, but the loan proceeds went to a different 
business, Business R, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. The outcome would turn on the relationships between Business C and 
Business R and I think its possible a court would conclude that there were the right 
arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Hs claim under the CCA. But Ive not 
gone on to make a finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right 
relationships in place for the claim, I dont think GE Money needs to do anything for the 
reasons set out below.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs H said that Business C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement and breached its agreement with them, so they say GE Money is 
jointly liable under s.75 CCA.
The protections under s.75 CCA are only available where the cash price of the item supplied 
under the transaction financed by the credit agreement is between £100 and £30,000. Here 
the cost of membership was £42,336 and so s.75 CCA cant apply to Mr and Mrs Hs 
agreement.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives have also pointed to s.75A CCA, which can make the 
creditor jointly liable for some breaches of contract where the price of the goods or services 
is above £30,000. Here it has said that Business C going into administration led to a breach 
of contract. Having considered everything I dont think this provision helps Mr and Mrs H for 
a number of reasons.
First, Mr and Mrs Hs agreement ran between July 2004 and July 2005, but s.75A CCA 
wasnt enacted until February 2011. I cant see that s.75A CCA was ever intended to have 
retrospective effect, so I cant see how it applied to their agreement.
Secondly, the fact that Business C has gone into administration doesnt mean that there is 
an automatic breach of contract. Here, Mr and Mrs H have not pointed to what they say they 
were entitled to under the membership that they were no longer entitled to after Business Cs insolvency. So I dont know what specific term of the agreement was breached by Business 
Cs insolvency.
Thirdly, PR set out in some detail deficiencies in the way the timeshare membership was set 
up, noting the club Mr and Mrs H joined was a dormant company. It was alleged  that the 
Club and its manager are and always have been incapable of delivering the benefits paid 
for. PR identified potential breaches of the contract that flowed from the way the club 
membership was arranged, but those alleged breaches would have been actionable from the 
date of sale. So even if s.75A CCA did apply, which I dont think it does, any breach of 
contract claim made in 2018 was several years out of time under the six year limitation 
period that applied for a such a claim.
Finally, Mr and Mrs H have pointed to a judgment in a Spanish court that they say means 
their agreement with Business C has been nullified. In other words, they have rescinded 
their agreement with Business C and say they are to be put back in the position they would 
have been had they not entered into the contract. In those circumstances I cant see how 
there can be a contract to breach, so I cant see that s.75A CCA assists them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman