DRN-2526678
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes.
The policy was purchased on 24 January 2020, to cover any trips of up to 50 days duration 
(35 days if aged 71 or over) taken worldwide, with the exception of certain listed countries. 
The policy year started on 25 January 2020 and ended on 24 January 2021.
Mr and Mrs B paid £851.34 for the standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, 
which also covered Mr Bs declared medical conditions. 
Mr and Mrs B had two trips booked for travel in the first six months of the year but, due to 
Covid-19, they had to cancel their holidays. On 5 June 2020, Mr and Mrs B contacted the 
broker to cancel their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes said that as it was more than 14 days since the purchase of the policy, 
Mr and Mrs B were not entitled to a refund of the premium. However, due to the unusual 
situation Great Lakes offered a pro-rata refund of the premium, calculated from the date they 
asked to cancel the policy  which was 5 June 2020. Great Lakes said the refund could be 
used in three ways:
A pro rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price of 12, at 
the current market rates. 
A pro rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy. This will be a 12-month 
policy, at the current market rates. Mr and Mrs B could choose to start the cover at 
any time within 12 months of purchasing the policy. 
A UK only annual multi trip policy, with a potential to upgrade the destination area at 
a later date (this was subject to terms and conditions).
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with Great Lakes offer. They said they wouldnt use the credit 
voucher as they werent intending on travelling abroad again due to Mr Bs health and 
wanted a cash refund. So, they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
found that neither the relevant regulators rules nor the policy terms and conditions entitled 
Mr and Mrs B to a full premium refund. But she did think it was reasonable for Great Lakes 
to provide a pro-rata refund as it was no longer on risk for any trips. She was satisfied the 
credit voucher was a suitable way to provide the refund and she didnt find that the terms of 
the credit voucher were restrictive. So, she felt Great Lakes offer was fair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said that they only had two trips 
booked last year and as they were cancelled due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt have to 
provide insurance. They reiterated that the voucher was of no use to them due to their 
decision not to travel abroad again and they wanted a cash refund. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs B held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says: 
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted Great Lakes regarding the cancellation of their travel insurance 
policy over four months after they had taken it out  so the cancellation request was not 
made within 14 days. And, under industry rules, even if Mr and Mrs B had cancelled the 
policy within this time period, they wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium 
paid. This is because Great Lakes was already covering the risk of them needing to cancel 
either of their booked trips for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time, 
such as ill health.
The policy terms and conditions 
The insurance policy Mr and Mrs B took out with Great Lakes includes terms and conditions 
which explain their cancellation rights under the contract. These say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or 
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any 
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more 
favourable to them than is required by industry rules. But as Ive set out above, their policy 
was cancelled more than 14 days after they bought the policy. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B 
arent entitled to a refund under the policy terms and conditions.
The policy terms and conditions do give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions  whereas the Covid-19 global pandemic has had a far-reaching impact, affecting 
a large number of Great Lakes policyholders. Im not persuaded that this type of situation is 
one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
Whilst I dont think Mr and Mrs B are entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of their contract with Great Lakes, Ive considered what I think is fair and 
reasonable taking into account all of the circumstances of the complaint.
I understand why any potential travel plans Mr and Mrs B may have had for the remainder of 
the policy year  and therefore the need for this annual multi-trip insurance policy  changed 
due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract.
 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Bs contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 25 January 2020. This is because 
Mr and Mrs B were insured from that date for travelling on any number of trips of up to 50 
days duration (35 days if aged 71 or over) which they may have taken until the policy was 
cancelled on 5 June 2020. Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips Mr and Mrs B took (unless 
Mr and Mrs B subsequently made a claim under the policy). There may have been many 
trips or there may have been none, but Great Lakes was covering the risk of a claim during 
the time the policy was in force. 
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr and Mrs B for the cancellation of any holidays 
which they had booked and were due to take from 25 January 2020 until they decided to 
cancel the policy. So, Mr and Mrs B would have been covered if they had to cancel any 
number of holidays for any of the listed reasons detailed in the policy, such as ill health.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered. However, I think it is important to recognise that Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under 
Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy after the date they requested to cancel the policy. By the 
time that Mr and Mrs B asked to cancel their policy their planned holidays had already been 
cancelled. Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim for those holidays and therefore it wouldnt have 
born any risk for a claim being made for any insured event. 
And from the date Mr and Mrs B requested the cancellation of the policy, Great Lakes was 
not providing cancellation cover for any other holidays which Mr and Mrs B may have had 
booked, or for any travelling that Mr and Mrs B may have done either abroad or within the 
UK. 
As Ive mentioned above, the circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic are 
incredibly unusual. And based on those unique and unprecedented circumstances, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs B with a pro-rata refund 
of the premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy from the date they 
requested that the policy was cancelled  which was 5 June 2020. 
How the refund should be paid
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Great Lakes will not provide a cash refund of the insurance 
premium, rather than a credit voucher. In considering whether I think Great Lakes should 
make a pro-rata refund of their premiums by way of a voucher or a monetary refund, Ive 
thought about what would be fair and reasonable to both parties. 
It is important to note that it was Mr and Mrs Bs decision to cancel the insurance policy  
although I understand their reasons for doing so. Mr and Mrs B entered into a contract with 
Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid 
claim occurring under the policy. Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great 
Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date.
Im not persuaded that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to Mr and Mrs B. 
I think a credit voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that voucher 
being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. Great 
Lakes offer incorporates a series of different options for Mr and Mrs B, including a pro-rata 
credit towards a new policy which would provide cover for 15 months for the price of a 12-
month policy or using the credit to buy a new annual policy but that the start date could be 
deferred for up to 12 months from the date of purchase. 
Mr and Mrs B have said they dont want a voucher as they are unlikely to travel abroad again 
due to Mr Bs health. Theyve said Mr B hasnt been able to attend regular check-ups to 
review his medical conditions as a result of the pandemic  this is why they have made the 
decision not to travel abroad. I understand why they may have reached that decision, 
especially considering the current circumstances - but this view may change once Mr B has 
been able to attend these appointments. In addition, Great Lakes has said that it offers 
insurance for UK based trips, which Mr and Mrs B could find useful in the future, especially if 
travelling abroad is no longer an option they want to consider. Taking everything into 
account, I dont find the terms of Great Lakes voucher unreasonably restrictive, so Im 
satisfied the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances. Im not persuaded that Great Lakes 
has to offer a monetary refund on this occasion.
The calculation of the credit voucherMr and Mrs B dont disagree with the monetary value of the voucher offered. But for 
completeness, Ive considered whether the way Great Lakes has calculated this refund is fair 
and reasonable.
Great Lakes has told us it doesnt break the premium for this policy down based on the cover 
it provides pre-travel (if the trip has to be cancelled) and post-departure cover. Instead, it 
says the premium charged is split equally across the whole period of cover.
An insurer is entitled to decide how it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account 
factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims 
arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. Based on 
the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating the 
premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the incidence 
of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied that 
Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly or any differently to other customers in 
similar circumstances.
The voucher value of £542.82 has been calculated based on the unused period of the 
standard travel insurance cover. The premium Mr and Mrs B paid for this policy was for 
cover from 25 January 2020 to the 24 January 2021. The value of the voucher which Great 
Lakes has offered to Mr and Mrs B is equivalent to 234 unused days of cover from 5 June 
2020 until the original end date of the insurance policy on 24 January 2021. This is reflective 
of the fact that Great Lakes wouldnt have been covering any further risk under the policy 
from the date the policy was cancelled.
Overall, based on everything Ive seen and been told, Im persuaded that Great Lakes offer 
of settlement, by way of a voucher, is fair and reasonable. So, I dont find that Great Lakes 
has to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman