DRN-4151895
The complaint
Mr A complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt do enough to prevent him losing money to 
an alleged scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In February 2022 Mr A made an 
international payment for $2,240. The money was for the purchase of a vehicle which was to 
be delivered. Mr A says the vehicle has not been received; the seller sent fake documents; 
and has been unwilling to refund the money. Believing that hed been the victim of a scam, 
Mr A reported this to Starling Bank.   
Starling bank didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said it wouldnt be refunding Mr As loss as it 
couldnt treat his claim as a scam because hed previously sent funds to the same 
beneficiary for the purchase of a vehicle and had received it. It concluded this to be a 
buyer-seller dispute.
Mr A remained unhappy that Starling Bank were not dealing with his claim as a scam. He 
referred his complaint to our service. Our Investigator concluded that Starling Bank 
shouldve considered and acknowledged the rest of the evidence Mr A had provided. But 
even if it had treated the matter as a scam, as there had been no failure by Starling Bank in 
the processing of the payment, and the recovery of funds from the recipient bank seemed 
unlikely, he didnt think Starling Bank needed to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Mr A didnt accept the Investigators assessment and asked that an Ombudsman review the 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr A, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear about the situation in which Mr A finds himself. I understand why he 
wants to do all he can to try to get his money back. But in these circumstances simply 
because Starling Bank didnt treat the matter as a scam and/or failed to look into the 
evidence Mr A had provided before reaching its claim outcome, isnt a basis upon which I 
can ask it to refund Mr As loss. I can only ask Starling Bank to refund Mr As loss if I can 
fairly and reasonably conclude its act or omission was the cause of it.  
I appreciate much of Mr As dissatisfaction is focussed on Starling Banks reluctance to 
accept that he has been the victim of a scam. But ultimately what Mr A wants is for 
Starling Bank to refund his loss. And in the circumstances of this complaint even if I were to 
say Starling Bank ought to have concluded this to be a scam, I still dont think this wouldve 
resulted in Mr A receiving his money back. I say this for the following reasons: 
- Of course, in hindsight and now knowing the seller hasnt sent the vehicle as 
promised its easy to say Starling Bank ought to have intervened and done more and 
that it missed an opportunity to prevent Mr As loss. But taking into account 
the volume of transactions that take place daily, it simply wouldnt be practical for a 
bank to stop and check each and every one of those  especially if its not 
uncharacteristic, unusual and/or suspicious in the context of the previous and/or 
expected account activity. It has to strike a balance between monitoring accounts 
and preventing fraud without unduly hindering its customers use of their account. 
- I can see in the weeks leading up to the disputed payment Mr A had made payments 
to the same beneficiary (same account details), and payments which were larger in 
size. So in the context of Mr A's previous spending and account usage, Im satisfied 
that it wouldnt be fair to say that the amount and/or type of payment should have 
appeared sufficiently uncharacteristic or suspicious to Starling Bank such that it 
ought to have intervened and contacted Mr A about the payment. 
- And even if Starling Bank had intervened, questioned Mr A, and provided scam 
warnings (which to be clear I dont think it needed to). Ultimately, I think Mr A 
wouldve gone ahead with the payment as hed previously paid for, and received, a 
vehicle from the seller. 
- Ive also considered whether Starling Bank ought to have done more to assist Mr A in 
his efforts to recover the money hed sent. I appreciate Mr A wants Starling Bank to 
accept he has been the victim of a scam and would like it to take the necessary steps 
it wouldve done, had it treated the matter in this way from the start. But even if it had 
taken those steps, I think its unlikely that it wouldve been able to recover any of 
Mr As funds. I say this because firstly, Starling Bank can only try to recover Mr As 
money on a best endeavours basis, it cant compel or make a recipient bank return it. 
Secondly, as our Investigator has explained, from the evidence Mr A has shared 
even if the money was available in the recipient bank account it appears as though 
the seller wouldnt have agreed to it being sent back. So, its unlikely the recipient 
bank (which also happens to be an international bank that operates under different 
rules and regulations) would have returned it. And if this is fraud as Mr A says, on 
balance, the money was likely to have been moved elsewhere or spent by the time 
he reported this to Starling Bank. 
- On a number of occasions Mr A has mentioned a scheme under which victims of 
scams are reimbursed. I think what he is referring to here is the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the code). This requires firms who are a 
signatory of the code to reimburse customers whove been the victims of authorised 
push payment (APP) fraud, in all but a limited number of circumstances. One of the 
codes requirements for a payment to be covered is that it must be a transfer 
between UK-domiciled, GBP accounts. The disputed payment Mr A sent does not 
meet the codes criteria as it was an international payment in US dollars. So even if 
Starling Bank had treated Mr As claim as a scam, the payment wouldnt have been 
covered under the code. So, I cant fairly say Starling Banks actions have resulted in 
Mr A not receiving reimbursement that he otherwise wouldve done.  So taking all the above together, I cant reasonably conclude that Starling Bank couldve 
prevented Mr As loss or that it not treating the matter as a scam when Mr A reported it had 
an impact on any potential recovery or redress.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman