DRN-3069105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D hold travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs D booked flights to a country Ill call S. They were due to travel 
between 3 and 19 August 2020. However, on 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against 
all but essential travel to S. On 17 March 2020, it advised against all but essential travel to 
all destinations. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed wide-ranging 
restrictions on movement, commonly known as lockdown.
Subsequently, on 5 June 2020, the airline let Mr and Mrs D know that it had cancelled their 
outbound flight. It gave them the option to either rebook or receive a refund. And on 11 June 
2020, the airline also cancelled Mr and Mrs Ds inbound flight and provided them with the 
same options. Mr and Mrs D rearranged both flights for the same dates but flying at different 
times.
On 4 July 2020, the FCDO announced that there would be a travel corridor between the UK 
and S. This wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs D to travel as planned. However, on 25 July 2020, 
the FCDO again advised against all but essential travel to S and so Mr and Mrs D cancelled 
their holiday. They made a claim for the costs of their cancelled flights.
AXA turned down the claim. It said that at the time Mr and Mrs D rebooked their flights, on 5 
and 11 June 2020, there had still been FCDO advice against all but essential travel. It said 
that the policy specifically excluded claims where a trip had been booked when FCDO 
advice against travel was in place.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with AXAs decision. They said theyd called AXA to check 
whether or not theyd be covered and had been told that they would be, as their flights hadnt 
been booked in June 2020  their original booking had simply been amended. AXA couldnt 
find a copy of this call though, so it paid Mr and Mrs D £50 compensation to recognise any 
potential mis-advice they mightve been given. But Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy with 
AXAs stance and so they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. She noted that the 
policy didnt cover claims if there was FCDO advice in place to a policyholders destination 
when their trip was arranged. And in this case, the FCDO advice against travel to S had still 
been in place when Mr and Mrs D had rearranged their flights. So she felt itd been fair for 
AXA to turn down Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They said theyd been told specifically that their flights would be 
covered and it was on the basis of this advice that theyd rearranged rather than cancelled 
their flights.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I think it was fair for AXA to turn 
down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy and the available evidence, to decide whether AXA has 
treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with AXA. The Cancellation section of the policy only covers 
cancellation in the event the FCDO advises against all travel. In this case, the FCDO didnt 
advise against all travel. So AXA considered the claim in line with the Travel Disruption 
section of the policy which provides cancellation cover in the event that the FCDO advises 
against all but essential travel. I think then that it was reasonable for AXA to assess the 
claim under the Travel Disruption cover provided by the policy.
However, the Travel Disruption section also includes a list of things AXA specifically 
excludes from cover. One of these is:
Claims arising directly or indirectly from:
Strike, industrial action or the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other regulatory
authority issuing a directive prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to the country or 
specific area or event to which You were travelling, existing or being publicly announced by 
the date You opened Your account or at the time You made Your travel arrangements 
for this Trip.
I accept that Mr and Mrs D initially booked their flights in January 2020 and at that point, 
couldnt have foreseen the circumstances that would unfold surrounding Covid-19. However, 
at the point they rearranged their flights, on 5 and 11 June 2020, there had been FCDO 
advice against all but essential travel to S in place for almost three months. This advice 
hadnt been lifted at any point during that time. So I think it was fair for AXA to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs Ds travel arrangements were made at a time when the FCDO advice remained 
in place. And so, I think it was fair for it to conclude too that the exclusion Ive outlined above 
applies to the circumstances of the claim.
Mr and Mrs D say that they were told by AXA that their claim would be covered if they 
rearranged their flights and it was on that basis that they chose to do so rather than get a 
refund through the airline. AXA says it cant trace this call. Ive seen copies of AXAs 
complaint notes which suggest that Mr and Mrs D told it that the call had been made on 27 
July 2020  which was around six weeks after theyd rearranged their flights. Taking this into 
account, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to find that any misinformation AXA may have 
provided affected Mr and Mrs Ds decision to rearrange their trip - because theyd already 
made revised travel arrangements. Ive also seen a copy of AXAs claims notes. I cant see 
any record of any calls to AXA in June 2020 or around when Mr and Mrs D chose to 
rearrange their flights. So on balance, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to fairly find that Mr and Mrs D 
rearranged their flights because of any misinformation on AXAs part. This means I dont 
think I can reasonably direct AXA to pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim on this basis. And I think the 
£50 compensation AXA has already offered Mr and Mrs D is enough to recognise the upset 
any potential poor service on its part may have caused.
Overall, I find it was fair and reasonable for AXA to turn down Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman