DRN-2258991
The complaint
Miss A says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading at the time of sale as Egg) mis-
sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Miss A took out in March 2002 online. The 
policy was cancelled in 2003 and the card ended in or before 2009.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss As complaint. Miss A disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I dont think Egg gave advice, so I dont need to consider whether the policy was suitable. It 
did need to provide clear information so that Miss A could make an informed decision.
Ive decided to not uphold Miss As complaint because:
I am satisfied that Miss A chose to protect her credit card repayments, knowing there 
would be a cost to do so. Egg has provided a screen shot of what Miss A would have 
seen when she applied for the card. The screen shot shows PPI being presented. It 
broadly describes the purpose of the cover and sets out its cost, right next to where it 
appears Miss A would have clicked a box saying Yes to the cover. There was the 
option to say No so I think Miss A would have known about the PPI policy and also that 
she had a choice to have it.
The information Egg gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But it doesnt look as if better information would have put Miss A off anyway based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She says she had 6 months full sick pay 
and more than £3000 in savings. 
I am persuaded based on what I have seen, that Miss A would have found the benefits 
provided by the policy useful in a difficult time over an extended period to cover her in 
addition to her sick pay and savings. The cost of the PPI policy was relatively low 
(compared to others in the market). And the policy provided Miss A with a safety net, at a 
good level of benefit, which with her circumstances at the time of sale, he would have 
considered useful if she needed it.
I couldnt find anything else within the policys terms and conditions that would have put 
Miss A off buying it like a restrictive or significant term, at the time of sale.
 In conclusion, I have not been able to find any grounds to uphold this complaint about the 
mis-sale of the PPI policy. This means Egg dont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Miss A. But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss A because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Miss A about that. Because Egg didnt tell Miss A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Miss A any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman