DRN-4160702
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs K holds with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires. Shes unhappy that a direct debit was set up incorrectly, resulting in 
a payment arrangement being cancelled. There are other things that Mrs K is unhappy with, 
but our investigator explained that Mrs K had waited too long to refer them to us. Mrs K is 
represented here by her daughter.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 15 May 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs K and Birmingham 
Midshires. Im also aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, 
which has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mrs K being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of 
the complaint. 
Mrs K has a mortgage that was due for repayment in 2014, but remains outstanding 
and overdue. The mortgage is also in arrears on the monthly payments. A court 
issued a possession order in 2019, but as of yet, Birmingham Midshires has not 
enforced the order. In January 2022, an informal arrangement was agreed for Mrs K 
to make regular payments on the 10th of each month, over and above the normal 
amount, to reduce the arrears. However, Birmingham Midshires set the direct debit 
up to collect payment on the 14th of the month, causing the arrangement to fail 
immediately. It has apologised and paid Mrs K £100 compensation. 
Our investigator thought that was a fair response, but Mrs K, has asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed and decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Our rules include a time limit on how long a person can wait after a business has 
issued a final response before they can refer a complaint to this service. In Mrs Ks 
case, Birmingham Midshires has issued several final responses, but our investigator 
thought our jurisdiction was confined to considering the subject matter of only one of 
these. 
We revisit jurisdiction at every stage of our complaint-handling process, so Ive 
considered that first. Id normally do this separately, and then address the merits after 
that. But Im mindful that Birmingham Midshires is currently holding 
recovery/enforcement action in abeyance while the complaint is with us. Overall 
fairness therefore suggests I should not unduly delay concluding our involvement. 
Ive looked at the complaints Mrs K has raised, and Ive considered what our rules 
say. Having done so, I agree with our investigator that our jurisdiction here is 
confined to the issue of the payment arrangement and the direct debit error in 
January 2022. Ill explain why.
Our rules require a consumer to refer a complaint to us within six months of receiving 
a final response from a business. Mrs K brought the current complaint to us on 
5 August 2022. The six-month time limit in our rules means we can only consider the 
subject matter covered by final responses issued on or after 5 February 2022. Mrs K 
has received final responses from Birmingham Midshires dated 1 May 2019, 19 
January 2022 and 7 February 2022. 
Only the last of these final responses falls within my remit, and it is the one that deals 
with the payment arrangement and the direct debit. Mrs K was issued with a fourth 
final response, dated 30 September 2022, but all this did was revisit the 2019 
complaint and remind Mrs K that it had been dealt with at the time. 
Birmingham Midshires hasnt consented to us looking in to matters from outside the 
time limits Ive set out, and to be clear it doesnt have to. Ive not been provided with 
evidence of any exceptional circumstances that would allow me to disregard the time 
limits in this case. I could only set aside the time limits Ive outlined above if I thought 
exceptional circumstances had prevented Mrs K from meeting them. 
The test I have to apply, and it is an onerous one, is not just whether exceptional 
circumstances existed, but also whether those circumstances are the reason the 
complaint wasnt made in time. Theres nothing to suggest exceptional circumstances 
exist that prevented Mrs K from raising any of her complaint elements sooner than 
she did.
Having established why there is only one point of complaint for me to address, I now 
turn to that point. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
This is not a complaint where I have to decide fault; Birmingham Midshires has 
accepted it made a mistake and has apologised and paid £100 compensation for Mrs 
Ks time, trouble and upset. What I have to decide, is whether its offer is fair, or if it 
needs to do more. 
My starting point here is that at the time of the event complained about, Mrs Ks 
mortgage was already about seven years overdue for repayment, in arrears on the 
monthly interest instalments, and had been the subject of a possession order in 
2019, which has yet to be enforced. No-one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre 
not automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due.  A 
lender must treat customers fairly, and in the circumstances Ive described above, it 
would be hard to conclude that Birmingham Midshires has not shown Mrs K 
considerable patience and forbearance over the years. But it is not required to 
continue doing so indefinitely. 
Everything has a context, and in all of the circumstances set out above, I dont think it 
was unfair or unreasonable that Birmingham Midshires didnt consider offering Mrs K 
another formal payment arrangement to be viable. Overall, I consider that the 
apology and payment of £100 was a fair response. 
Theres one further point for me to make. It is important to explain here that lenders 
will generally agree to put enforcement action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, 
but they dont have to and we cant force them to. If the Financial Ombudsman 
Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality between the parties to a 
complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using our service to 
bring complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying to take 
legitimate action through the courts to recover money owed to them. 
I do not wish to alarm Mrs K, but I would not want her to be under any 
misunderstanding that we would tell Birmingham Midshires that it must suspend any 
enforcement action in the event of any new complaint being raised with our service, 
or uphold any future complaint that it refused to do so. The more appropriate forum to 
ask for enforcement action to be suspended is the court through which the action is 
being taken.
Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments; that 
time has now passed. Birmingham Midshires confirmed it had nothing to say in response to 
the provisional decision. Despite a reminder, weve not heard from Mrs K. The provisional 
decision was sent to an email address that has been used previously to send us 
correspondence, so Im satisfied it reached its intended audience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
and with no further substantive arguments or evidence to consider, I wont be changing my 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman