DRN-2706663
The complaint
Mr M says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk irresponsibly lent 
to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan MoneyBoat provided to Mr M in April 2018. The 
loan was for £350 and was to be repaid in four monthly instalments of £134.90. Mr M wasnt 
able to keep up with his repayments and a court mandated a repayment plan to clear the 
loan. From what I can see, an amount is still outstanding on the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicators view, and so the complaint was passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
MoneyBoat asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr M said his monthly income was £1,685. He said his monthly outgoings 
were £720. 
As our adjudicator explained, MoneyBoats credit checks showed that Mr M was most likely 
have trouble managing his money: 
Mr M had a history of regular use of short term loans with nine loans in the past 
seven months.
There had been 43 searches of Mr Ms credit file in the past year.
Mr M had defaulted on a short term loan two years earlier. 
Mr M had three other outstanding short-term loans when he applied for his loan from 
MoneyBoat. The repayments for these accounted for half of Mr Ms monthly income. 
But MoneyBoat didnt take this into account in assessing affordability. 
I think from the information it had gathered, MoneyBoat should have realised that it was 
unlikely that Mr M would be able to sustainably repay his loan without having to borrow 
again. And so I think it was wrong to have provided it.
 Putting things right
To put things right for Mr M, I think MoneyBoat should do the following
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on his loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
offset this refund against any principal still outstanding and pay Mr M the balance 
remaining;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk to carry out the redress set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman