DRN-2426080
The complaint
Mr A complains about his Contracts for Differences (CFD) Options trading account with 
Plus500UK Ltd. He says Plus500 manipulated its pricing, causing him to lose all of his 
money. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr A opened his account with Plus500. He began trading but the 
following month, he got in touch with them using the live chat function. Mr A said he was in 
five positions, all of which were losing. The agent explained how buy and sell positions make 
and lose money, but that they couldnt help Mr A with his trading strategies. Mr A said that if 
he kept losing money and not making a profit, hed assume hes being scammed and would 
report the problems to authorities and online. A couple of days later, Mr A got in touch again 
as hed lost €3,000 so Plus500 logged his concerns as a complaint. 
Thereafter, Mr A used Plus500s live chat function on a number of occasions  mainly to 
chase up the status of his complaint and see whether hed be given his money back. On 
3 January 2020, Mr A used live chat again  by this point, he said hed lost €5,000 and that it 
was unbelievable Ive not made a profit on any trades. He asked for his money back. He 
contacted Plus500 again on 8 January saying hed lost €6,000 in a week. He said hed 
uncovered fraud in his trades and would report it to the police. He asked for his money back. 
On 27 January, he said hed lost €7,000.
 
Plus500 issued their final response in February 2020. They didnt uphold the complaint and 
said, in summary:
Regarding claims they manipulate prices to cause losses  they use prices directly 
from recognised markets where the underlying instrument is traded. This was 
explained in the order execution policy as they source price feeds from various data 
providers in order to ensure that reliable market data is displayed on the platform. 
When the account was opened, Mr A accepted that Plus500 would apply spreads to 
price feeds, which would often explain any slight price differences. They said the 
application of fixed or dynamic spreads is described in the order execution policy.
He was made aware of all spreads and fees hed be liable for. 
He was reminded about the user agreement which clarified that buy positions are 
closed according to sell rates and sell positions are closed according to buy rates.
At the time, Mr A had five open positions on his account  three were closed on 
margin call and the other two were closed by Mr A  one for a profit and one for a 
loss.
They wouldnt be compensating him for any losses as the decisions to trade were his 
own  it was his responsibility to be aware of the market conditions and form his 
trading strategy in accordance with his knowledge of the market and his own 
judgement.
Unhappy with this, Mr A asked for our help. One of our investigators had a look at what 
happened. She asked Plus500 some questions about Mr As appropriateness for this sort of 
trading and how prices are established. But having reviewed that, she didnt agree Plus500 
had done anything wrong. 
She agreed that the account didnt seem appropriate for Mr A, but in line with the rules hed 
been warned about this and chose to go ahead regardless. She also noted he placed over 
80 trades within the first month, so even if the account wasnt appropriate at the outset, Mr A 
gained knowledge and experience very quickly. She said Plus500 told Mr A about the risks 
involved too. As Mr A hadnt identified specific trades he thought Plus500 had manipulated, 
our investigator looked at things more generally  but from what shed seen, there wasnt 
anything to suggest pricing was fraudulent or unfair or that theyd deliberately done anything 
to disadvantage his positions.
Mr A didnt agree. He felt Plus500 were cheating, had taken €7,000 and wouldnt allow him 
to continue trading. So as an agreement wasnt reached, the matter was passed to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As complaint is rather broad. He believes that Plus500 have done something wrong with 
his trades and he would like his money back. Hes said prices have been manipulated but 
hes not pointed to any examples for us to review. It seems that his basis for the allegation is 
on the fact that hes lost money  so he must have been scammed. I can see our 
investigator invited Mr A to narrow the scope of his complaint or identify specific trades 
where he thinks Plus500 did something wrong. But Mr A hasnt done this, hes just said he 
wants his money back. 
Ive reviewed Mr As trading history  I can see he placed over 600 trades between 
November 2019, up until May 2020. It looks as though around half of these trades were 
profitable. But the other half which werent meant Mr A lost money  profits of around 
$17,000 were offset by losses of over $30,000. Over half of the trades were on oil, with the 
rest being a mixture of options across other commodities, indices and individual stocks. 
Our service wouldnt look to review every trade Mr A made to establish the prices applied  
with some, it will be the case that we wouldnt be able to review underlying price data either 
given the time thats passed. As Mr A hasnt narrowed his concerns, I can see why our 
investigator has instead focussed on how Plus500 work more generally. 
Plus500 shared an example with us of how theyd price a coffee CFD  this was one of the 
positions Mr A had open when he first used the live chat function. The example showed 
Plus500s prices were in line with Bloomberg prices, and had only been adjusted to apply 
their 0.2 spread. 
This is explained in detail within Plus500s order execution policy. It said, in summary, that 
prices for contracts (like the coffee example) are calculated by reference to the price of the 
relevant underlying financial instrument. Prices are obtained from a range of independent 
third party reference sources and various nominated independent financial market data 
providers who source their price feeds from relevant exchanges. 
Aside from the automatically applied spreads (like the 0.2 mentioned above) the prices 
quoted are from independent providers. They are not set by Plus500 and the policy does not 
seem to build in discretion for Plus500 to amend them as they see fit  or to otherwise 
manipulate them as Mr A suggests. I appreciate Mr A will remain suspicious but he has not provided us with any evidence  
such as examples where Plus500s prices havent correlated with whats being seen across 
the market  nor has he pointed us to specific trades of concern. For me to agree with him 
that Plus500 had indeed manipulated prices or otherwise have scammed him as he 
suggests, I would need some evidence or theory to follow. But he hasnt provided anything 
like this so it follows that the price manipulation that has been alleged has not been 
established. From what Ive seen, Mr A lost money due to the underlying market conditions, 
not because Plus500 manipulated their prices to disadvantage him.
Ive also thought about the wider circumstances and how Mr A begun his relationship with 
Plus500. As Plus500 are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out in the 
regulators handbook  the conduct of business (COBS) section is whats relevant here. 
Plus500 werent required to assess the suitability of Mr As upcoming trading given they 
werent going to be giving him any advice  his account was opened on an execution only 
basis so it was for him to decide which trades to make. However, to trade as he did 
COBS 10 required Plus500 to assess his appropriateness for doing so. In other words, this 
required them to gather relevant information from Mr A in order to decide whether he had the 
necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved. 
Looking at the answers Mr A provided, I can see that he didnt have the knowledge and 
experience to pass the appropriateness test. He was aged 31 when he opened the account, 
he said he had no trading experience, earned between €0 and €20,000 a year and had 
between €0 and €5,000 in savings  with the primary source of these funds being from a 
government issued student loan. Despite this, he said he could afford to risk between €100 
and €5,000. Mr A was also asked three questions about his investment knowledge  these 
asked him to calculate leverage, what happens when the market gaps through a stop loss 
and who was responsible for maintaining margin. Mr A got two questions right.
But this, along with Mr As personal and financial circumstances, meant he wasnt assessed 
as being an appropriate candidate for this sort of trading. Plus500 displayed a warning to this 
effect. It said: Appropriateness Risk Warning. Declaration  I acknowledge your warning that 
a CFD account is not appropriate for me. However, I wish to proceed with my application 
and I understand the risks associated with CFD trading. I am aware of your demo account 
and the information on your website. Mr A answered true. Having given the warning, and 
with it being accepted, Plus500 then had the option to either turn down Mr As application or 
proceed with it. They chose to proceed and allow the account to be opened. Mr A may now 
argue this wasnt the right thing to do, but the regulators rules permitted Plus500 to do this 
while having regard to the circumstances.
Despite the fact Plus500 didnt consider Mr A an appropriate candidate for trading, it doesnt 
follow that they did anything wrong by letting him open an account anyway. If a firm warns 
the client of their concerns but they wish to proceed, the firm is able to open an account  
guidance just asks them to have regard for the wider circumstances. I did initially have 
concerns when I saw that a student using money from a student loan had opened this 
account. But anyone over 18 can open these sorts of accounts, and its not for firms to 
suggest trading might not be suitable or to assess suitability. While it might not have been a 
good idea to put his student loan at risk, as our investigator said, Mr A got into trading rather 
quickly  he placed five trades within the first week profiting by $70 and another five trades 
the week after losing $350. Mr A made almost 80 trades within his first month, and these 
were a mixture of profitable positions. 
Importantly, we must recognise Plus500 warned Mr A that they didnt think the account was 
appropriate for him, but he chose to accept the warning and proceed regardless. So despite 
Mr As inexperience and financial situation, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for the risks he accepted at the time and the decisions he made to trade to now be transferred to 
Plus500 by way of them compensating him for his losses. Mr A continued to place almost 
500 more trades after receiving the final response letter which confirmed he wouldnt be 
receiving compensation  he lost another $10,000 during this point but he was on notice of 
the risks and knew Plus500s position.  
I sympathise with Mr As situation as I can see hes lost a lot of money. But from everything 
Ive seen and for the reasons Ive explained above, I think Mr A made the decision to accept 
the risks involved and trade despite Plus500 warning him against it. I havent been able to 
review specific trades of concern, but from what I have been able to consider more 
generally, I find that Mr A lost money due to market conditions rather than as a result of 
Plus500 working against him. Unfortunately, Mr A did lose money trading CFDs, but as Ive 
not seen Plus500 did anything wrong and hes not evidenced or identified any wrongdoing, I 
dont think his losses are something for which Plus500 ought fairly and reasonably to be held 
responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman