DRN-3070577
The complaint
Mr C complains that information provided to him by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (HLAM) was unclear and inaccurate and as a result he is now subject 
to the Money Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA) rules.
What happened
Mr C has a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) arranged through HLAM. In May 2015 
he completed an application for flexible drawdown from the SIPP. The application had a 
decision tree and included questions about the risks involved, which Mr C completed. He 
ticked yes to the question are you aware your pension contributions could be restricted by 
taking income via drawdown? Below this question was an explanation that by taking 
income, future contributions could be limited and he was advised to Check how this affects 
you before proceeding. Mr C also confirmed that he had taken regulated financial advice.
Mr C moved further funds into drawdown in March 2016 and again in October 2018. On 
each occasion risk questions were completed and ticked, noting that Mr C had read all the 
documentation. 
In June 2019 Mr C completed an online income withdrawal to take £5,000 from his SIPP. He 
later complained that as a result of doing this he was now subject to the MPAA and said this 
was due to the unclear information from HLAM, which meant he hadnt understood the 
implications of drawing income from the SIPP. 
HLAM said the information provided was clear. When Mr C brought the complaint to this 
service our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He said HLAM had provided clear 
information and didnt think it had caused Mr C any loss. 
Mr C disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. In pursing his complaint hes 
made a number of points. I wont set them all out in full but they include:
its reasonable to expect information to be clear and concise at the point of the 
transaction;
information was provided when he moved funds into drawdown but not when he 
actually took income in 2019;
there were mistakes and inaccuracies by HLAM throughout his dealings with them, 
which meant it was difficult to know what information was correct, and as a result he 
lost faith in them;
the information said he might or could be subject to a tax charge  not that he 
would be  if hed been told clearly that there would be a tax charge he would not 
have gone ahead.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HLAM dealt with Mr Cs SIPP on an execution only basis. This meant it didnt provide any 
investment advice and only executed the instructions given by Mr C. So HLAM wasnt 
responsible for advising him on the actions he was taking or whether they were suitable. But 
its terms and conditions say information will be provided in a straightforward way And 
firms are expected to provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. So Ive 
considered the information HLAM provided about the MPAA to see how clear it was.
Mr C moved money into drawdown three times  in May 2015, March 2016 and October 
2018 respectively. Each time, the documents included questions about the risks involved 
and warnings. These included, for example:
If you are still contributing to pensions, starting to take income could restrict how much you 
can pay. Future contributions to money purchase schemes such as SIPPs and personal 
pensions could be restricted to £10,000 per annum. Check how this affects you before 
proceeding.
I understand that if I take any income from my plan, I will be flexibly accessing pension 
benefits. Future contributions made by me, or on my behalf, to all money purchase pensions 
will be limited to £4,000 per year, with effect from the earliest date on which I flexibly access 
pension benefits from any pension scheme. Any contributions in excess of this will be 
subject to a tax charge.
I think the information provided was clear that if he went on to draw income from his pension 
while still making contributions he would be subject to the MPAA. 
I appreciate Mr C says the documents only warned him that he might be subject to a tax 
charge, not that he definitely would be. But the documents explained that if he paid in 
contributions of more than £4,000 this will be subject to a tax charge. He was made aware 
of the risk, and the documents suggested he took financial advice if he was unsure. For 
HLAM to have said it would definitely apply, it would have needed to understand Mr Cs 
circumstances and effectively be giving advice on his individual circumstances. And as Ive 
said, HLAM wasnt providing advice to Mr C.
Mr C also says this information was only provided when he moved funds into flexible 
drawdown and not at the point when he actually took income in 2019. But Ive seen the 
instruction screen completed in 2019, which said:
IMPORTANT: If this is the first time you have flexibly accessed pension benefits the future 
total contributions to all your money purchase pension schemes, including the HL SIPP, 
are now limited by the money purchase annual allowance  MPAA. This is currently £4,000.
Mr C had to select either No, please take me back to my pension portfolio or Yes, I 
understand the implications in order to proceed. He chose to proceed at this point.
I have looked at all the information provided and I think it was clear that if Mr C withdrew 
income from his pension, that would affect the amount of contributions he could make in 
future. He may not have known exactly what would happen but he was made aware of the 
MPAA and that anything over £4,000 would lead to a tax charge.
There were some errors in the information HLAM provided. For example it said Mr C had 
moved funds into drawdown four times but later accepted this was wrong and he had only 
done so three times, not four. There was also some delay responding to an enquiry from 
Mr C, but HLAM offered him compensation of £50 in respect of that. I dont think errors of 
that nature altered the fact that Mr C was given clear information about the risk of him being 
subject to the MPAA. And if he wanted more detailed information about the risks he could 
have sought advice before proceeding.Its not clear to me that Mr C is in fact affected by any tax charge; this would only apply if he  
contributes more than £4,000 a year and hes indicated he isnt intending to contribute more 
than that. But even if his circumstances are such that he does wish to contribute more than 
£4,000, any charge would not due to HLAM providing inaccurate or unclear information.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman