DRN-2123671
The complaint
Ms I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc allowed an unauthorised withdrawal from 
an account that she owned jointly with her sister.
What happened
Ms I had a joint account with her sister that she understood was set up on the basis that any 
withdrawals required both to sign. However, in July 2019 a withdrawal for £100 was made by 
the other account holder without Ms Is consent. Ms I says she hasnt authorised any change 
to the account and Nat West didnt tell her thered been any change in the terms of it. As a 
result, she feels the payment for £100 was illegal as she hadnt agreed to it and that 
NatWest made a mistake in allowing an unauthorised transfer to be made.
NatWest said it didnt have all the information on this account as some of it went back to 
2008 when the account was converted to a joint account. However its terms and conditions 
state that a joint account allows transactions to be carried out at the request of either 
account holder. Although a no operations marker had been put on the account later due to 
the dispute between Ms I and her sister, this had been removed on 8 July 2011 on request. 
After that, either party could deal with the account as if it was their own. It didnt agree it had 
made a mistake in allowing the payment.
Our investigator agreed with NatWest that the terms and conditions for this account allowed 
either account holder to operate the account without having to get the consent of the other. 
These went on to say that if it was changed so that both had to sign, then it would require 
any instructions to be jointly signed and in writing and that it wouldnt be able to be managed 
via the telephone or online banking services.
Shed seen Ms I had been able to view the account online up to the date of the disputed 
transaction in 2019. It was also clear that the disputed payment had been done by phone. 
On that basis she was satisfied that, at the time of this payment, the account hadnt required 
both to sign so she didnt agree NatWest had made a mistake.
Ms I disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said the 
account should have required both to sign and in support she sent in copies of: 
a) a letter dated from NatWest dated 14 March 2011 that confirmed a stop had been put 
on the account and that any withdrawals would now require the signature of both 
account holder
b) a letter dated 10 August 2011, signed by both her and her sister, giving instructions 
for a number of withdrawals on the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence on any particular point is incomplete, unclear or disputed Ive looked at 
whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances of the case and made my decision 
on the balance of probabilities.
Nat Wests terms and conditions state that 
3.2 Joint Accounts
3.2.1 If you have a joint account, we will (unless and until instructed otherwise under General 
Condition 3.2.2) accept instructions from any one of you. This means that any one of you 
can withdraw the full balance in your account.
3.2.2 Any one of you may instruct us that we may only accept instructions from all of you 
acting together. If this happens:
(a) we will only act on your instructions if they are in writing and signed by all of you; and
(b) you will be unable to use our telephone and online banking services, which depend on us 
being able to accept instructions from any one of you.
Its clear from this that, if this account had been set up on the basis that both had to sign 
then Ms I and her sister wouldnt have been able to make withdrawals other than in writing. 
They also wouldnt have been able to view the account online. The account history however 
shows that this wasnt the case which indicates that in general this account was being 
operated on the basis that either Ms I or her sister could authorise transactions on the 
account.
Ive seen the copy of the chequebook provided by Ms I that states Both to sign. Ive 
considered this carefully but it doesnt change my decision. This is because its not clear 
when it was issued although NatWest said its never been used. More importantly it has to 
be balanced against the other information that, other than for a short time in 2011- and again 
from October 2019, theres nothing to show this account was being managed on a both to 
sign basis.
Its clear that in March 2011 a no operations marker was put on the account. But as 
NatWest has explained, once a payment is jointly authorised after that, the marker comes off 
and it goes back to allowing either to sign. 
The notes for this account show the marker was removed on 8 July 2011 following 
information Ms I and her sister had resolved their disagreement. Unfortunately its not clear 
who contacted the bank at this time but as banks arent required to keep all information for 
more than six years, I dont find that unreasonable. However In August 2011 Ms I and her 
sister wrote in with instructions for payments out of this account and I havent seen anything 
to show this marker was re-applied until Ms I contacted the bank in October 2019.  For that 
reason, even if Ms I didnt authorise its removal in July 2011, it would have come off in 
August 2011 in any event. For that reason, I cant agree that the payment in July 2019 
wasnt in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
I realise Ms I may be disappointed by my decision but on the information available, I dont 
find that NatWest has made a mistake with this payment so I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman