DRN-2196689
The complaint
 Ms T complains about the administration of her share dealing account by Halifax Share 
Dealing Limited (Halifax). She complains Halifax sent her correspondence stating she would 
be charged for the transfer of holdings, when previously it had said she wouldnt be charged.
Ms T is unhappy that Halifax said it hadnt received her instructions to switch her holdings to 
new providers and felt this was a slight on her character.
She also complains the details on her account statement were incorrect because the transfer 
fees were charged to her account and then refunded. And she considers that access to her 
account was unfairly restricted.
What happened
On 9 November 2018 Halifax wrote to Ms T and gave her one months notice that it was 
closing her account. It said that she had to notify Halifax of her transfer instructions within a 
month, or those holdings would be rematerialized.
On 19 November Ms T wrote to Halifax and said that she was transferring her holdings to 
three different providers.
On 22 November Halifax wrote to Ms T to confirm her transfer to provider 1 was underway. 
The letter stated that a transfer fee of £50 was due. 
On 28 November Ms T contacted Halifax and queried the correspondence she had received. 
Ms T said she had been told she wouldnt incur any fees. 
On 29 November Halifax responded and said it wouldnt have been aware of when      Ms 
Ts transfer out request would be received by its Transfer Team. It said that was the reason 
why a communication was issued requesting the transfer out fee. Halifax said its intention 
had been to refund any fee and it apologised for any confusion caused.
Halifax also said it had now arranged for the transfer out fee to be waived rather than 
refunded and confirmed no money would be debited from any of Ms Ts accounts in respect 
of the transfer out of its service.
On around 13 December Halifax wrote to Ms T regarding the transfer to provider 2 and said 
it would be charging her £75 for transferring three holdings to the new provider. 
On 2 January 2019 Ms T contacted Halifax and said she had received a letter confirming her 
transfer request to provider 2 but also informing her that a fee would be applied to her 
account. Ms S also said that online access to her account had been blocked.
On the same day Halifax responded and said it hadnt received Ms Ts transfer instructions 
for all her holdings within the one month notice period. It also said her account was being 
closed in accordance with the notice provided and online access would not be restored. 
On 4 January 2019 Halifax wrote to Ms T and confirmed her ISA funds had been transferred 
to provider 3.
Ms Ts account was closed on 13 February 2019.
Ms T complained to Halifax about the transfer fees applied to her account, the removal of 
her online access and the accuracy of her account statement. Halifax didnt uphold her 
complaint. It said it had agreed to waive any transfer fees. Halifax said the fees were debited 
and then credited to her account which explained how they appeared on her statement.
Ms T referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She reiterated that she was only dealing with the 
issues raised in this complaint. The investigator said she thought Ms T had advised Halifax 
of her intention to transfer her holdings to new providers within a reasonable amount of time 
of receiving the notice. She noted there appeared to have been a delay in receiving the 
transfer forms from the other providers but didnt think Ms T should be held responsible. 
The investigator said that Ms T had been told that no fees would be applied for the transfers, 
but correspondence was then sent to her that stated fees would be charged. The 
investigator said Halifax has explained it intended to waive those fees once they had been 
applied to Ms Ts account. But she felt the correspondence sent to Ms T wouldve caused 
her concern. 
The investigator said Halifax had informed her there was nothing on record that would 
prevent Ms Ts online access up until her account was closed on 13 February 2019. But she 
noted it had said in an email on 2 January 2019 to Ms T that her online access would not be 
restored as her account was being closed.
The investigator thought it wouldve been reasonable to allow Ms T online access to her 
account until her transfers had been completed so she could monitor the transfers. She said 
as an ISA transfer can take up to 30 working days to complete, allowing her access only in 
the notice period wouldnt have enabled Ms T to monitor her transfers to completion.
The investigator concluded that Ms T had been caused trouble and upset as a result of 
Halifaxs actions. So, she said Halifax should pay Ms T £100 for the trouble and upset it 
caused.
Halifax disagreed. It said that there was no evidence that Ms T had been unable to access 
her account online. But it said its agreement stated the online service wouldnt always be 
available and at such times she could use the telephone service. Halifax said it had told Ms 
T at outset that she wouldnt be charged for any transfers and she wasnt charged. Halifax 
said it had not treated Ms T any differently than it would another customer and it had acted 
within with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Halifax wrote to Ms T and informed her that it was closing her account. I am satisfied that it 
was entitled to do so under the terms and conditions of the account. Section 16 states:
16. Changing this agreement and termination
16.2 We may, at our discretion, end this agreement and/or close any account at any
time by giving one months written notice to you.
The letter also said:
At the end of the notice period, unless we have received a transfer instruction to transfer 
your investments to another provider (which we will arrange free of charge), any 
shareholdings within your IWeb share dealing and ISA accounts will be rematerialized and 
the share certificates sent to your registered postal address by recorded delivery free of 
charge. Similarly, any monies held will be transferred to your nominated bank account. 
Please note, your account will remain available to operate as normal throughout the notice 
period should you wish to use it.
Ms T accepts that Halifax had the right to end their agreement. Her complaint is about how 
this took place and the service she received from Halifax during this period. 
I am satisfied Halifax informed Ms T that she needed to give her transfer instructions within a 
month from the date of the notice.
About 10 days after the notice was sent, Ms T wrote and informed Halifax that she was 
transferring her holdings to three providers and identified those providers. So, I consider 
Halifax was on notice that Ms T wanted to transfer her holdings rather than leaving them to 
be rematerialized. 
Halifax wrote to Ms T on 22 November 2018 to confirm the first transfer was underway. So, I 
think it was clear that Ms T was serious about transferring her holdings. 
The transfer process involves several parties. It requires Ms T to give her instructions to the 
business receiving the transfer. It also requires the receiving business to contact the original 
business- Halifax- and ask it to transfer the holdings. So, I dont think Ms T had control over 
the whole process and how long it took. 
Ms T is unhappy that Halifax said in an email on 2 January 2018 that she hadnt given her 
instructions within the one month notice period. In response to that email Ms T provided 
Halifax with a copy of the confirmation from provider 3 that it had received her instructions. I 
think what Halifax probably meant, and should have explained, is that it hadnt received 
instructions from all three new providers within that month. That doesnt necessarily mean 
that Ms T hadnt given her instruction within that time frame. And Ms T has expressed, in 
strong terms, that she had done so. I think what she says is also supported by her email of 
21 November 2018 indicating the transfers were underway.
Transfer Fees
Halifax has pointed out that Ms T was told at the outset that she wouldnt incur transfer fees. 
I can see that Ms T was informed of this in the notice letter. But I think she was then given contradictory information stating she would incur costs, on two occasions. 
Halifax contacted Ms T on 22 November and informed her that a transfer was underway, and 
a transfer fee was due. 
It said the fee would be taken from the cash balance in Ms Ts Share Dealing Account if 
available, or from her Stocks & Shares ISA. It also said if there were insufficient funds 
available in her ISA, the balance due would be requested via Ms Ts nominated payment 
method ten working days from the date of the letter.
The correspondence also said that upon receipt of the above fees it would write to the new 
provider to arrange the transfer. 
I agree with Ms T that this gave the impression that the non-payment of the fees could delay 
the transfer. 
Once this was raised with Halifax it did respond quickly to confirm that fees wouldnt be 
charged. But this was undermined by it sending a further letter on around 13 December, in 
respect of the transfer to the second provider, again stating that fees were being charged.
I agree with the investigator that these requests would have caused Ms T some concern. In 
addition, I note as a result of the first letter she thought that the issue of fees could delay the 
transfer which I think wouldve caused her additional upset. I think this is also supported by 
the fact she wrote to Halifax raising her concerns only a few days after she received the first 
letter in November. 
I think it likely on balance that Ms T was sent a standard letter for transfers and that it wasnt 
Halifaxs intention to charge her transfer costs. But the closure of Ms Ts account had been 
initiated by Halifax. So, I think it was incumbent on Halifax to ensure it gave her the correct 
information. And, if the process was such that Halifax had to charge fees and then refund 
them, it should have explained this at the outset to prevent causing upset to Ms T.
Online access
Halifax has said there is no evidence that Ms T lost online access to her account. But Ms T 
wrote to Halifax on 2 January 2019 to complain that she didnt have online access and 
couldnt use her account. Halifax responded and said her online access will not be 
restored, which would strongly suggest it had been removed.
Halifax has also said, in effect, that the terms and conditions of the agreement didnt oblige it 
to keep the online access open beyond the notice period. I think thats correct because it 
was entitled to close the account with one months notice and closing the account would 
mean removing access to it. Its letter also only said the account would be available to use 
during the notice period. 
But I also consider what would be fair and reasonable in these particular circumstances. I 
note these transfers could take some time and that was not something that was in     Ms Ts 
control once she had given her instructions. And Halifax knew that Ms T was intending to 
transfer her holdings to three providers. She had informed them at an early stage that those 
transfers were underway. In addition, the first transfer appears to have gone through within 
the notice period. 
So, given those circumstances I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable to allow online 
access for an additional period of time, so Ms T could monitor the transfers. Having said 
that, I dont think it would be reasonable for that to be indefinite as ultimately, Halifax was closing Ms Ts account. 
I also dont think Halifaxs response of 2 January stating that Ms Ts online access will not 
be restored because her account was being closed gave any recognition to the fact there 
were still outstanding matters. As Ms T was still waiting for her third transfer to go through. 
And I think that was something that would have been important to Ms T. 
Halifax has said that the agreement provided that online service wouldnt always be 
available and on those occasions the telephone service could be used instead. Looking at 
the agreement and section 6 How to access the service I think it was envisaged that 
primarily it would be accessed online. 
Section 6.20 provides that Halifax may suspend the service where it reasonably concludes it 
is necessary. It gives examples such as for maintenance, technical problems and for its 
protection, or to ensure it can continue to make the service available. But the only reason 
given to Ms T in January for not providing access was that her account was being closed. 
And while she could have used the telephone service this would have been more time-
consuming and less practical for the purposes of monitoring her account. I also consider this 
against the background that Ms T didnt really have a choice but to transfer her holdings if 
she didnt want them to be rematerialized.
Account information
Ms T has complained about the accuracy of information displayed on her quarterly statement 
for the transfer period. This appears to be largely because the transfer fees were debited, 
and the same amounts were also credited to her account. While I can see that would have 
been confusing for Ms T I think Halifax has since provided an explanation as to why that 
happened. It has said there had to be a manual override of the operating system so the fees 
could be waived.
Halifax has also explained it is unfortunately no longer able to provide copy statements 
because the account is now closed. It has confirmed Ms Ts account was closed with a nil 
balance. So, I dont think I can reasonably ask it to do anything further on this issue. 
Putting things right
Trouble and upset
I think Ms T has been caused trouble and upset by the contradictory information she 
received about the transfer fees. I also note she was inconvenienced by not being able to 
use her account fully to monitor her transfers. Overall, I think that £100 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that Ms Ts complaint is upheld and Halifax Share Dealing Limited should 
pay Ms T £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman