DRN-3731859
The complaint
Mr R has complained that HBL BANK UK LIMITED (also known as Habib Bank Limited) 
wont refund transactions he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In November 2020, Mr Rs card and PIN were used for a number of cash machine 
withdrawals and point of sale transactions abroad, in and around the place where he was 
staying. On his return to the UK, Mr R queried these transactions with HBL, saying he didnt 
recognise them.
Mr Rs card was then used for a number of payments to a cryptocurrency platform, mostly 
for large amounts.
Mr R has explained that his card was in his possession the whole time, and he had not 
written down his PIN or told it to anyone. He thought his card had been cloned. He was also 
unhappy that HBL later closed his account.
HBL held Mr R liable for the payments in dispute, mainly on the basis that the transactions 
had all been properly authenticated.
Our investigator looked into things independently and partially upheld the complaint. They 
found it was most likely that the transactions abroad had been made with Mr Rs consent. 
But they found that HBL had not evidenced that Mr R had consented to the cryptocurrency 
payments, so they recommended that those be refunded.
Neither party agreed. Mr R felt sure his card had been cloned abroad, and HBL wanted the 
case to be kept on hold as they hadnt been able to get in touch with the cryptocurrency 
platform. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ill consider the ATM and point of sale transactions that were made abroad.
HBLs technical evidence shows that those payments used Mr Rs genuine card, and the 
correct PIN. They were not made using a cloned card, as Mr R suggested. So Im satisfied 
that those transactions were properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the 
evidence suggests its most likely that Mr R consented to those payments, or not.
Mr R has confirmed that his card was with him the whole time, and that he still had it 
afterwards  which I can see is the case as he used that card for genuine payments after the 
disputed ones. However, the ATM withdrawals and point of sale payments were made using 
Mr Rs physical card. And its not likely or plausible that a fraudster would give Mr R his card 
back after stealing it  that would drastically increase their chances of getting caught while 
actively stopping themselves from stealing as much as they could have. Its also unlikely that 
theyd be able to find Mr R hours later, or that theyd be able to put his card back in his 
pocket without him noticing anything wrong.
Moreover, those payments were made using Mr Rs PIN. Hes confirmed that he hadnt 
written down his PIN or told it to anyone, so a thief couldnt have learned it that way. And its 
not likely that they would happen to guess it correctly on the first try. Its sometimes possible 
for thieves to learn someones PIN by watching them enter it previously. But here, the 
disputed payments started several hours after Mr Rs last use of the PIN. And its not very 
likely that a thief would overlook him entering his PIN, then wait so long to steal the card, nor 
that theyd steal the card at the time and then wait so long to use it. So there doesnt seem to 
be a likely way that someone knew Mr Rs PIN without his permission.
I might have expected a thief to try to take as much money as possible, as quickly as 
possible, before the card gets blocked. But here, the person using the card did not take 
nearly as much as they could have, then they stopped using the card entirely despite leaving 
a very large balance in the account. This does not fit well with the possibility of fraud.
On the other hand, the payments abroad were very similar to Mr Rs genuine payments in 
terms of locations, amounts, and so on. And customers do sometimes forget payments they 
have made and then mistakenly dispute them. Ive not seen any evidence that makes it 
seem implausible or unlikely that Mr R couldve authorised these payments or given 
someone else permission to make them on his behalf.
So it doesnt seem likely or plausible that the payments abroad were unauthorised. But it 
does seem both likely and plausible that they could have been made with Mr Rs consent. 
So on that basis, I dont think I can fairly tell HBL to refund them.
Ill now turn to the cryptocurrency payments.
HBL have shown that the cryptocurrency payments were authenticated using Mr Rs card 
details. But again, that is not enough  on its own  for HBL to hold Mr R liable for them. 
They also need to be able to evidence that Mr R consented to those transactions.
To explain, the onus is on HBL  rather than Mr R  to evidence that HBL are entitled to hold 
him liable for these disputed payments. And I appreciate that it may be frustrating for HBL 
that theyve not had a response from the cryptocurrency merchant. But this is the sort of 
information they should have gathered at the time, before we asked for it. And weve given 
HBL numerous deadline extensions, stretching far beyond our standard timescales. We are 
required to resolve complaints quickly and informally, so we would not look to keep a case 
on hold indefinitely. And we are impartial, so it would be unfair for me to give HBL special 
treatment in that regard. Our last deadline has passed, so I will decide this complaint based 
on the evidence I have.The cryptocurrency payments were made using Mr Rs card details. Contrary to HBLs 
arguments, this does not require the physical card  just the card details. Indeed, these 
types of payments are commonly known as card not present transactions.
There are a number of possibilities for how someone could have gained Mr Rs card details 
without his permission, such as if a merchant hed previously given his card details to got 
compromised. And Ive not seen any evidence which shows that two-factor authentication 
was used here. So it seems both likely and plausible that these payments could have been 
made without Mr Rs consent.
The cryptocurrency payments were made for large and repeating amounts. When payments 
got rejected, the person making them then tried lower ones to get them through. This looks 
consistent with someone trying to take as much as they could.
Indeed, the person making these payments was still attempting them at about the same time 
Mr R was on the phone to HBL telling them to block his card. Then they kept on trying more 
cryptocurrency payments, including trying different platforms, after Mr R had got the block 
put in place. This also suggests that these payments were being attempted without Mr Rs 
permission. It is not especially likely that hed block his own payments while in the middle of 
making them, nor that hed try further payments knowing hed already blocked his card.
HBL pointed out that one needs an account with the cryptocurrency merchant in order to use 
their platform. But broadly anyone can make an account. HBL have not provided any 
evidence that this was Mr Rs account. Meanwhile, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr R 
benefitted from these payments in any way, such as from a pay-out. And when Mr R asked 
the merchant for proof of whose account it was, they declined to deal with him, which if 
anything tends to suggest it probably wasnt his account.
HBL also pointed out that in his dispute form, Mr R mixed up one of the cryptocurrency 
payments with a genuine payment of a similar amount, and that he didnt list one of the 
smaller cryptocurrency payments. But its pretty clear that this was just an oversight and a 
mix-up. Mr R has otherwise been clear and consistent that he disputes all the cryptocurrency 
payments from November 2020.
Taking into account everything thats been said and provided, Im not persuaded that Mr R 
consented to the cryptocurrency transactions. And Ive not seen anything which shows that 
those transactions were made due to any gross negligence on Mr Rs part, nor any 
intentional failure to keep his account safe. So I dont think HBL can hold him liable for them.
Lastly, I appreciate that Mr R is unhappy that HBL closed his account. But much like Mr R 
can decide who he banks with, HBL can broadly decide who banks with them. I can see that 
following this incident, Mr R withdrew his money, which took the account below the minimum 
balance. And HBL gave him the appropriate amount of notice before closing it. So I cant see 
that they did anything wrong there.
Putting things right
I direct HBL BANK UK LIMITED to:
refund all the cryptocurrency platform payments made in November 2020;pay simple interest to Mr R on those transactions, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
payable from the date they were last debited until the date theyre returned. This is 
to compensate Mr R for the time he didnt have his money.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HBL to take off tax from this simple interest. HBL must give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one. Mr R may then be able to 
claim the tax back from HMRC if he does not normally pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part, and direct HBL BANK UK 
LIMITED to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman