DRN-1724302
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Paragon Finance PLC (Paragon) are contacting him in pursuit of a debt it 
says he owes, despite it not having a copy of the credit agreement for the original borrowing.
What happened
In 1999 Mr B took out a hire purchase agreement for a vehicle. After experiencing financial 
difficulties Mr B handed the vehicle back to the lender  and this was sold to repay some of 
the borrowing. But it seems the sale of the vehicle didnt cover the full amount. So, there was 
still an outstanding balance Mr B needed to pay.  
Some years later the original lender sold the remaining balance of this borrowing to 
Paragon. So, Paragon contacted Mr B and let it know it was now dealing with the debt 
moving forward. And that payments would need to be made to it.
Mr B requested that Paragon provide a copy of the credit agreement he signed when taking 
out the loan in the first place. He said he had concerns about the amount still payable on the 
debt. Mr B felt he had already paid what he needed to in respect of the borrowing  and that 
being asked to pay more was unreasonable.
Paragon attempted to get a copy of the credit agreement from the time the borrowing was 
given. But, despite its attempts, it couldnt get a copy. So, it let Mr B know it couldnt provide 
this information to him. And it acknowledged that until it was able to provide a copy of the 
credit agreement, it couldnt enforce the debt through legal action. 
Paragon did however explain to Mr B that it was satisfied he did still owe an amount of 
£18,972.71 to it. It said it had statements showing the amount borrowed  and the amount 
there was left to pay. And because it was satisfied there was still an amount owing, it would 
still contact Mr B to request he made payments towards the balance.
Mr B didnt feel this was fair. He remained in disagreement in respect of the amount of debt 
owed. And he said Paragon shouldnt still be asking for payment, given it couldnt provide 
him with a copy of the credit agreement. So, he referred his complaint to this service, for an 
independent review.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Paragon had 
acknowledged the debt wasnt enforceable. But it had acted fairly in pursuing Mr B for the 
remaining balance owed. He said he had seen statements from the original lender, showing 
what the balance of the loan was, and what was owed on this. So, he was satisfied Paragon 
were acting reasonable in the amount it said was owed, and on pursuing this amount.
And he didnt think the level of contact Paragon had undertaken in its attempts for payment 
were unreasonable. 
Mr B disagreed. He reiterated that because the debt wasnt enforceable, Paragon should not 
be pursuing him for it.
Because Mr B didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I wont be requiring Paragon 
to do anything differently.
Mr B has noted that the debt in question is not enforceable because of a copy of his credit 
agreement cant be located and provided to him. Its important to note that the enforceability 
of a debt isnt for this service to decide  it is a matter for a court. So, I havent considered 
whether Paragon can successfully enforce the funds owing here.
Instead, Ive needed to think about whether Paragon acted reasonably in pursuing Mr B for 
the amount it said was owed to it. Having looked at the evidence provided to me, Im 
satisfied Paragon didnt go anything wrong.
Paragon has provided account statements from the original lender, as well as information 
about the payments Mr B made to it once it purchased the debt. And on looking at these, I 
can see they show there is a balance left to pay on the debt. This is £18,972.71. And Im 
aware this is the amount Paragon has asked Mr B to pay towards. Because this is an 
accurate reflection of the amount still owing on the account, Im satisfied it is fair for it to 
request payments to settle this. 
Mr B has said the actions Paragon has taken to pursue the debt have been unfair. And he 
felt he was being harassed by it. So, Ive considered the actions Paragon took  to decide 
whether these actions were reasonable. And, I think they were. 
Paragon did initially contact Mr B on purchasing the debt to seek payment. And I can see 
when Mr B contacted Paragon to let it know he had concerns about whether he owed the 
funds, it looked into this, and provided Mr B with responses to his queries. 
There were occasions when collections activities were put on hold because of the concerns 
Mr B raised. And, when contact began again following this, I dont think this was at an 
unreasonable level. Paragon did send regular letters to Mr B. And when it didnt hear from 
Mr B in response to these, it sent someone to his property, to try and establish contacted 
with him. 
I think it was reasonable for it to try and establish contact with Mr B by letter first, in order to 
seek payment. But when it had been unsuccessful, I dont think it acted unfairly in sending 
an agent to his property to try and successfully contact him. Given that I dont think the level 
of contact was excessive or unreasonable in the circumstances, Im satisfied Paragon didnt 
do anything wrong in this respect.
My final decision
Given, the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, Im not asking 
Paragon Finance PLC to do anything differently in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman