DRN-3746531
The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) incorrectly suspended 
her credit card account.
What happened
Ms H says that she contacted Barclaycard in March 2022 to ask why she could not access 
her account. She says she was incredibly shocked to discover that her account had been 
suspended as Barclaycard had been informed of her death by a third party. Ms H says she 
asked Barclaycard several times for a copy of the letter as she was concerned for her, and 
her childrens, welfare, but was then told it had been destroyed.
Barclaycard upheld Ms Hs complaint. It said that it suspended her account on receipt of 
notification of Ms Hs death from a third party. It initially paid Ms H £100 for the distress this 
caused to her. It explained that it was unable to confirm more information, or the identity of 
the third party, due to data protection issues. Barclaycard subsequently offered additional 
compensation of £250 as it explained that:
The letter it received made no reference to Ms Hs death and had been processed 
incorrectly;
The account had been wrongly suspended;
The letter had not been destroyed, but contained personal information that could not 
be shared;
Ms H responded to this additional information, in summary, to say:
Barclaycard lied to her when she initially complained and that shes never had an 
apology;
Shed endured four months of mental anguish, following an abusive marriage, and 
had referred the matter to the police based on what Barclaycard had told her 
incorrectly;
She feared she was at risk of harm from her ex-husband;
An innocent man could have been arrested, or even charged, and it could have 
affected his career;
The customer service she received was insensitive.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that Barclaycards 
initial error, and subsequent customer service, had a significant impact on Ms Hs mental 
health and wellbeing. He considered total compensation of £500 was more appropriate to 
the level of distress caused to Ms H.
Barclaycard accepted the investigators view.
Ms H responded to say, in summary, that Barclaycard has never fully explained its actions 
and that she still feels the compensation is inadequate for her immense distress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Ms Hs ex-husband sent a letter to Barclaycard and requested the 
account to be suspended. I have seen the system screens and Im satisfied they show that 
Ms H was temporarily marked as deceased. As it has now been clarified that the letter did 
not contain such information, I find it more likely than not that an agent made a mistake 
when amending the system.
Barclaycard has confirmed that Ms H was the sole account holder, and her ex-husband an 
additional card holder, and, as such, he had no authority to suspend the account. However, 
as the system erroneously showed Ms H was deceased, its processes for such a situation 
would have led to the account being suspended and it seems a standard letter was sent. 
Had the initial letter been correctly processed, Im satisfied that Barclaycard would have 
informed Ms Hs ex-husband that it could not suspend the account based on his instructions.
Ms H says she called Barclaycard on a number of occasions and was consistently told the 
same, incorrect, information about the content of her ex-husbands letter  namely that hed 
said she was deceased. Barclaycard has now confirmed that when Ms H called, its call 
operatives would not have been able to see the letter as it was stored in a different system. It 
says they would have seen a deceased marker on the account and a note to say the 
customer was deceased. Whilst this is, at least, an explanation for the perpetuation of the 
incorrect information, I dont consider it is an excuse for the insensitivity Ms H says she 
encountered, nor the ill-researched initial response to her complaint that maintained the 
letter said she had died and had subsequently been destroyed.
As Ms H had just left an abusive relationship, I have no doubt that Barclaycards errors 
caused her significant distress for an unnecessarily long period of time. It was four months 
before Barclaycard acknowledged that the letter did not say Ms H had died and, even then, it 
was after the involvement of this service.
I can understand why Ms H believed that Barclaycard, and its agents, may have deliberately 
deceived her, but based on the evidence I have seen, I dont think thats likely to have been 
the case. However, I do find the actions of Barclaycard caused Ms H unnecessary suffering, 
especially given her circumstances:
For four months she believed her ex-husband had reported her as deceased and 
was naturally concerned for the welfare of herself and her children;
Her account was suspended incorrectly when it was her main source of expenditure;
She repeatedly received incorrect information about the content of the letter;Barclaycard responded to her complaint and compounded the errors, including telling 
her, incorrectly, that her ex-husbands letter had been destroyed.
However, although I do not consider Barclaycard deliberately misled Ms H, I find its actions, 
subsequent to its initial error, were far below the levels of customer service Ms H is entitled 
to expect. As such, Im satisfied it should compensate her for the four months of undoubted 
significant mental anguish.
Barclaycard has now agreed to this service sending Ms H a redacted copy of the original 
letter which I hope goes some small way to further reassure her of its contents. Having taken 
everything into account though, I find total compensation of £500 is fair and reasonable in 
the context of this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) should pay Ms H an additional £400 for the distress its actions caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman