DRN-4347917
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr M complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (trading as Halifax) 
handled their home insurance claim poorly. 
The policy is held by Mrs E and Mr M. Mr Ms been the main contact with Lloyds and this 
service for the claim and complaint. So for simplicity Ive referred only to Mr M in this 
decision. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr Ms property suffered an escape of water. He claimed against his Lloyds 
home insurance policy. Towards the end of 2022, unhappy with how it was handling the 
claim, he complained to Lloyds.
 
Lloyds issued a complaint response in January 2023. It apologised for delays in progressing 
the claim. It paid Mr M £300 compensation in recognition. Lloyds didnt accept it had failed to 
recognise, and provide suitable for support, for Mr Ms familys needs. In March 2023 Lloyds 
issued a further complaint response. It accepted it had given him an incorrect explanation 
about how it was required to communicate during complaints. It paid him a further £50 
compensation.  
Mr M wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He raised several complaint points. Some of 
those, including the adequacy of Lloyds cash settlement, are being considered in a separate 
complaint with this service. This provisional decision focuses on the customer service 
concerns of Mr M up until the final response of March 2023. These include Lloyds failures to 
consider the needs of him and his family and to respond to a Subject Access Request 
(SAR). Mr M would like it to pay him a significant award for distress and inconvenience.   
Our Investigator felt £350 compensation paid by Lloyds was enough to recognise the impact 
of its mistakes. Mr M didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was referred to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision. Its reasoning forms part of this final decision, so Ive copied it 
in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require Lloyds to pay Mr M any additional 
compensation or to do anything differently. I also invited both to provide any further 
comments or information for me to consider before issuing this final decision. 
Lloyds responded to say it had nothing further to add. Mr M responded to appeal against my 
provisional decision. He made various points. Ive responded to those I feel it necessary to 
below.     
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr M and Lloyds have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to 
be key or central. But I would like to assure both that I have considered everything
provided. Mr Ms raised various legislation and guidance in his complaint 
correspondence. Whilst I havent referred to them directly in this provisional decision, 
Id like to assure him I have taken them it into account when considering his 
complaint. 
A key concern of Mr Ms is that Lloyds has failed to take appropriate actions, or make 
reasonable adjustments, to account for the particular needs of him and his family. 
Hes explained members of his household, including himself, have various 
disabilities.
Lloyds feels its adequately considered the needs of Mr M and his family. It explained 
its gone beyond its normal level of service. Its referred to its agreement to provide 
alternative accommodation (AA) in recognition of the specific needs of the family  
when it wouldnt have done so otherwise. In addition it agreed for him to source the 
AA  in order to find something suitable for the familys specific needs. Lloyds also 
referred to scheduling visits to Mr Ms home in advance to minimise the impact on the 
family.
Ive considered everything Mr Ms said about the progress and handling of the claim. 
But overall I cant say Lloyds has failed to take account of, and respond reasonably 
to, the needs of his family.  
Mr Ms complained specifically about Lloyds method of communication when he 
raised his concerns about the claim. He says it failed to make reasonable 
adjustments to allow him to do so by email. His condition means email is his 
preferred and primary method of communication. 
Lloyds did provide an incorrect explanation for why it couldnt communicate about his 
complaint by email. It was a risk and system capability issue, rather than a regularity 
one as it had claimed. I accept being given incorrect information will have been 
confusing and frustrating for Mr M. 
But it seems Mr M was able to communicate his concerns for the complaint via his 
claim consultant. So Lloyds did provide him with a feasible facility. Mr M still doubts 
Lloyds explanation for not being able to communicate directly by email. However, in 
any event, I cant say it failed to make a reasonable adjustment for him. 
Lloyds communicated with Mr M, for the claim, via his preferred method of 
communication  email. Hes highlighted the length of time it took to respond to his 
messages. It did take longer to respond to some than might be expected. I 
understand that caused him   distress and inconvenience. Ive taken that into account 
as part of my consideration of the overall compensation award. 
 
Ive considered if Lloyds caused avoidable delays and failed to progress the claim at 
a reasonable speed. Mr M initially contacted the insurer in June 2021. Nothing of 
significance happened on the claim until June 2022. Its not entirely clear why. 
But from what Ive seen in August 2021 Lloyds sent Mr M correspondence requesting 
further details of the claim  including photos of damage. It doesnt look he provided 
anything in response. So the claim didnt progress until he made contact again the 
following summer. Ill consider any further evidence provided in response to this 
provisional decision. However, I cant currently say Lloyds was responsible for the 
claim failing to progress in the initial twelve months. From June 2021 onwards Lloyds accepts, and paid compensation for taking too long 
to progress the scope of works at certain points. I accept during this period there 
were a few incidents of avoidable delay. But having considered the timeline and 
correspondence, Lloyds was engaged in the claim and progressed it in reasonable 
time.
During the summer of 2022 Lloyds was active on the claim. The claim was 
complicated by Mr Ms requirement that undamaged areas of flooring be replaced for 
aesthetic reasons. Lloyds in response was looking into the possible different 
solutions. During August and September it was in discussion with its contractor about 
the matter. In October Lloyds explained to Mr M it would, due to his requirements for 
the flooring, be offering a cash settlement. 
The following month it provided a proposed settlement. It also said it would consider 
quotes from Mr M if he provided them. In the following two months Lloyds responded 
to Mr Ms questions and concerns about the settlement and process - attempting to 
move the claim forward. In early 2023 Lloyds was considering additional damage 
Mr M had reported.
I accept during this period Lloyds could, in places, have responded a little quicker. It 
might have told him earlier that it intended to cash settle. But overall it progressed the 
claim reasonably, taking care to respond to Mr Ms concerns and questions.  
Our investigator didnt consider Mr Ms complaint point about Lloyds failing to meet a 
SAR deadline. As I have, Ive issued this provisional decision, to allow him the 
opportunity to respond to my thoughts. 
Mr M applied for the SAR in December 2022 but didnt receive the required 
information for several months. He says this had a particular impact on him as he 
needs reasonable time to analyse and understand events to process them. Hes 
spoken of the delay preventing him from being able to use any potential evidence to 
support his complaint. 
As far as Im aware Mr Ms had the information requested for a number of months. 
So hes had the opportunity to analyse it and present it for this service to consider as 
part of his complaint. I accept the delay was frustrating for him. But I havent been 
shown it caused him detriment with his claim or complaint. He hasnt, for example, 
demonstrated his point that earlier receipt of the information would have resulted in a 
quicker resolution of his claim or complaint.  
In total Lloyds has paid Mr M £350 compensation to recognise the impact of its 
mistakes relating to events considered in this provisional decision. He feels that isnt 
enough. I havent broken the compensation paid into specific amounts to cover 
individual errors. Instead Ive looked at it in the round. 
I accept theres been some failings by Lloyds that caused distress and inconvenience 
for Mr M. But Im satisfied it has already paid enough overall to recognise the impact 
of those. Whilst its handling of the claim hasnt been perfect, in general its taken 
reasonable and fair actions to recognise and support the needs of the household. So 
I dont intend to require Lloyds to pay Mr M any additional compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M raised concern that I had failed to consider the evidence provided  in particular a 
submission made in September 2023. Id like to reassure him that Ive considered everything 
provided. As set out above, as this is an informal service I havent respond in my provisional 
decision or here to every point or piece of evidence. Instead Ive focused on what I consider 
to be key or central.
Mr M said his greatest concern relates to disability discrimination. He referred to me saying 
he was able to communicate, for his complaint, by email via his claims consultant. He said, 
however, theres evidence she didnt respond to emails. He also explained its been 
confirmed she didnt pass on information, for example about his SAR.
I accept its possible the consultant didnt respond to every email Mr M sent or forward on his 
SAR. But I cant see that he lost out financially as a result. In addition Im satisfied, even if 
those failings are considered, that Lloyds has already paid enough compensation overall.  
Finally my provisional decision concluded I didnt feel Lloyds was responsible for the claim 
failing to progress in the initial twelve months  from the summer of 2021. Mr M said 
evidence, from Lloyds, confirms it closed the claim despite it advising he would be contacted 
by its agents. 
As I set out in my provisional decision  in August 2021 Lloyds sent him correspondence 
requesting further details of the claim  including photos of damage. I said it seems he didnt 
provide anything in response, so the claim didnt progress until he made contact again the 
following summer. 
I said Id consider any further evidence on this point. But Mr M hasnt provided, or directed 
me to, anything to change my mind  such as something to show Lloyds did say its agents 
would be in touch. So I still cant say Lloyds was responsible for the claim failing to progress 
in the initial twelve months. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay 
any additional compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman