DRN-3237930
The complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon moved his personal pension 
plan without his consent and then failed to respond to his requests for his funds to be moved 
away. Hes unhappy with the service provided.
What happened
A group personal pension plan was set up with Aegon in 2008 as part of the pension
scheme offered by Mr Cs employer at the time. When he left that employment the plan 
became an individual personal pension.
In May 2019 Aegon sent a letter to Mr C advising him it intended to update his pension plan 
by transferring it a Retiready Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). A document headed 
Important changes affecting your pension plan was provided with the letter, which set out  
the main differences and features between his existing pension plan and the new SIPP.
The letter said his pension would automatically be transferred to the Retiready SIPP after
14 June 2019, but he would have 12 months from the date of transfer to change his mind 
and ask Aegon to move his pension back to the individual personal pension. The letter also 
said the charges would be lower in the Retiready SIPP than his existing plan.
Aegon sent another letter on 24 May 2019, reminding Mr C it would transfer his pension to 
the Retiready SIPP after 14 June unless it was told otherwise. The letter also provided 
details on how he could opt-out of the transfer.
Aegon wrote to Mr C again on 25 June 2019 confirming the transfer had been completed 
and advising Mr C he needed to activate his online account to be able to manage his 
Retiready account. A Confirmation of transfer document was provided with this letter, which 
shows details of the Retiready plan including the investment strategy for his funds.
On 19 November 2019, Mr C called Aegon saying he didnt want a Retiready account and 
wanted nothing to do with Aegon as they had been very unhelpful. He also said he had not 
lived at the address Aegon held for him for three months but was reluctant to provide his 
new address details.
During the call Mr C said he needed to take £6,000 from his pension so he would not lose 
his home, but was advised it wasnt possible to take benefits until he was 55 years old. He 
was advised of potential other options to move his pension from Aegon, including a transfer 
to another provider.
Mr C later spoke to the call handlers manager to complain and again said he wanted to take 
£6,000 from his pension. Aegon again said it wasnt possible to take benefits until he 
reached 55. Mr C provided an up to date email address during the call, advising that he no 
longer had access to the email address Aegon had for him.
Aegon sent an email to Mr C the following day acknowledging his complaint and confirmed  
the statutory minimum age to withdraw benefits from his pension was 55, but advised he 
might be able to withdraw benefits at an earlier age if he was suffering from ill-health. Aegon 
emailed Mr C on 21 November 2019, providing the relevant form for completion by a doctor 
for an ill-health claim to be considered.
Aegon sent a final response to Mr Cs complaint. Aegon didnt uphold his complaint and 
again confirmed the statutory minimum age to withdraw benefits from his pension plan was 
55 unless he was unable to work or his life expectancy was less than a year.
An annual statement was sent to Mr C in July 2020, for the period ending 17 June 2020. 
This showed the total value of his Retiready SIPP had increased by approximately 4.3% 
between June 2019 and June 2020.
On 7 August 2020, Mr C called Aegon a number of times and spoke to different members of 
its customer service team. He said he was unhappy with the service provided by Aegon and 
wanted to move his pension elsewhere or have his money back so it was no longer held by 
them. In one of the calls he said he was angry as the phone had been put down on him after 
a 20-minute wait, and said he didnt want Aegon to take any more action on his pension.
Mr C emailed Aegon the same day, confirming that he wanted it to take no further action on 
his pension and wanted to lodge a complaint. He asked for the funds be returned to him 
within seven days. He also wanted Aegon to pay the costs of a transfer to another provider, 
together with compensation.
Another member of Aegons customer service team contacted Mr C later that day, to explain 
the options available and provide online access to his Retiready account. He was again 
advised that he wasnt able to take benefits from his pension until he reached at 55, unless 
he was suffering ill-health, but he could transfer his pension to another provider.
The call handler explained that his pension had been transferred to the Retiready SIPP with 
no changes made to where his investments were held  it was simply moved from one part 
of Aegon to another, as this meant he could then have online access to his account.
Mr C said he wanted nothing more to do with Aegon so the transfer option was explained to 
him. He said he wanted to take funds out of his pension to buy some land and was told this 
wasnt possible within the Retiready account.
An email was sent following this call, confirming an activation code for online access to his 
account had been sent to him. This email also outlined the options available for transferring 
his pension to another provider.
Aegon issued a final response advising it did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Aegon said: 
it had given notice of the change to the Retiready SIPP; 
Mr C hadnt asked it not to go ahead with the transfer; 
it hadnt mis-managed his pension;
he wasnt able to remove funds from his pension before the age of 55; and
it had provided details of charges and there was no reason to reimburse any 
charges.
When Mr C brought the complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said: 
it was reasonable for Aegon to transfer the pension to Retiready and it wasnt aware 
Mr C was no longer at the address it held for him;Aegon had explained the reasons why Mr C couldnt take funds from his pension 
before he reached 55 except in the case of ill health, and had provided the relevant 
information to him about that; 
Aegon had offered to reverse the transfer if Mr C didnt want his funds to remain in 
his Retiready SIPP; 
Aegon was entitled to charge fees in line with the terms and conditions of the pension 
plan, and the charges were lower than those in his previous plan; and
the options available to Mr C were outlined to Mr C, including the actions required to 
transfer to another provider. 
Mr C disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C is very unhappy that his pension was transferred to the Retiready SIPP without his 
consent. I appreciate he would have been upset to find this had happened without his 
knowledge, but that doesnt necessarily mean Aegon did something wrong. 
Aegon wrote to Mr C to let him know it intended to transfer his pension to a new digital 
pension called Retiready and sent a reminder before the transfer went ahead. This was done 
as part of a process Aegon undertook at the time. The change from the Aegon personal 
pension plan to the Retiready plan was essentially moving the plan to a digital platform, 
which allowed Mr C online access to his account. The charges were lower and it kept the 
plan in line with the original investment. I dont think there was anything wrong in Aegon 
making the transfer. And Aegon gave the option not to transfer if a customer didnt want to.
The letters were sent to the address that Aegon had for Mr C. He says he wasnt living at 
that address at the time. While that may mean he didnt receive the letters, there was no 
reason for Aegon not to send them to that address; he hadnt provided any new address and 
it wasnt to know he was not living there at the time. In the call on 19 November 2019, Mr C 
said he had not lived at that address for three months. As the letters were sent more than 
three months before the call I think its likely, on balance, that at least one of the letters 
would have been delivered whilst he was still there. But even if thats not the case, it was 
reasonable to send them there and Aegon wasnt responsible if Mr C didnt receive them.
Mr C has said he told Aegon he wanted correspondence to be sent by email, but I havent  
seen anything confirming they were aware of that before the call on 19 November 2019. And 
it was only in this call that Mr C gave his new email address  so even if Aegon had emailed 
him instead of sending letters, its unlikely he would have received the emails anyway.
The way the funds were invested didnt change; the risk rating of the fund after transfer was 
the same as the fund before transfer. Mr C says the funds didnt perform well but if there was 
any decline in the value of the fund that would have been due to fluctuations in the stock 
market. And the annual statement provided to Mr C confirms the value of his pension 
increased during the first year it was held within the Retiready SIPP.
Mr C was particularly upset because he wanted to access funds from his pension, which he 
said he needed urgently. Due to his age, he wasnt able to withdrawn funds at that time. 
Aegon explained the reasons for this. It also explained that there was an exception in the 
case of ill health, and sent the relevant information to him about this. Mr C has told us he 
was suffering from serious ill health. But he didnt inform Aegon of this at the time or pursue 
this option once the information was provided to him. The options available to Mr C were outlined to him, including the action required to transfer 
to another provider. It was for Mr C to decide if he wanted to proceed with any of those. 
Once Aegon became aware that Mr C didnt want his pension to be held in the Retiready 
SIPP it offered to reverse the transfer. I think that was fair. There were some issues later on 
in relation to arranging a transfer back but those issues do not form part of this complaint. 
Mr C raised a further complaint and Aegon dealt with that separately. Thats not something I 
can comment on here.
Mr C is unhappy with the fees charged on his account. He says Aegon provided very poor 
service, didnt act on his instructions not to do anything with his pension and then transferred 
it without his agreement. Ive explained why I dont think Aegon was at fault in relation to the 
transfer to the Retiready account. Aegon was entitled to charge fees in line with the terms 
and conditions of the pension plan, and the charges were lower than those in his previous 
pension plan. Hes also unhappy with the way his calls were dealt with in August 20202. It 
would have been frustrating to have to make several calls to obtain information. And some of 
the calls ended quite abruptly. But he was able to speak to someone to clarify the situation. 
There are very limited circumstances where personal pension contributions can be refunded. 
Ive seen no evidence these circumstances apply here. 
Ive taken account of Mr Cs views on the level of service provided but dont think the 
circumstances are such that there should be any refund or that compensation should be 
paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman