DRN-3720622
The complaint
Mr W complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited discussed his account with a third party 
without his permission. 
What happened
In 2018 Hoist acquired a debt in Mr Ws name in relation to an overdraft. In September 2019 
Hoist noted that Mr W wanted a third party to act on his behalf and discuss his account with 
Hoist. So Mr Ws authority to discuss his account with a care worker was noted. At this time, 
Mr W started making payments of £5 a month towards the outstanding balance. The 
payments stopped around March 2022.   
After the payments stopped, Hoist tried to contact Mr W. As part of the process, it contacted 
the third party Mr W had asked it to deal with back in 2019. Mr Ws told us that around this 
time hed been evicted and was homeless. Mr W went on to complain to Hoist and said the 
third party had put pressure on him to contact the business about the outstanding balance. 
Hoist didnt agree it had acted unfairly and said it had permission to contact the third party on 
Mr Ws behalf. An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ws complaint but didnt think 
Hoist had acted unfairly when it contacted the third party while trying to speak with him. Mr 
W told us he didnt think the investigators view was fair, so his complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has told us some very personal and private information about his circumstances. Id 
like to assure Mr W Ive read and considered everything hes told us. Ive also listened to the 
calls hes had with our staff when setting out the complaint and in response to the 
investigator. And Hoist has provided a copy of a call recording it had with Mr W where he 
asked it to speak with the third party on his behalf. 
I understand Mr W was surprised and upset to find Hoist had contacted the third party 
without his knowledge. But I have to be fair to both parties. And from Hoists view, Mr W 
asked it to discuss his account with a third party on his behalf when it set up the payment 
plan in 2019. From that point, Mr W made regular payments to his account. It was only when 
those payments came to an end that Hoist contacted the third party to try and talk to Mr W. 
Ive looked at the contact information but theres no evidence Mr W later contacted Hoist to 
say he wanted to remove the third partys authority to discuss his account. So there was no 
way for Hoist to know Mr W no longer wanted the third party to act on his behalf. I appreciate 
Mr Ws concern that Hoist contacted the third party who, in turn, asked him to speak with the 
business. But Im satisfied that was fair and reasonable based on the information available to 
Hoist. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I havent found that Hoist acted unfairly. 
Hoists contact notes show it has removed the third party authority from Mr Ws account. So 
going forward, it will only discuss it with Mr W directly. I dont doubt that Mr W has 
experienced distress and inconvenience and I understand his circumstances have been very 
difficult. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W, but as I havent found that Hoist made an error or 
acted unfairly in this case, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman