DRN-1407329
The complaint
Mr K complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) poorly handled his motor insurance claim. 
Mr K is being represented by a family member in this complaint, but for ease, Ill refer to 
them collectively as Mr K throughout this decision.
What happened
In 2017, Mr K made a claim under his UKI motor insurance policy following a road traffic 
collision with another vehicle. He said the third-party driver (third party) staged the collision 
by braking suddenly, giving him no time to stop and avoid the accident. 
UKI considered the claim and decided not to pursue recovery of its outlay  settling it as 
split liability. But Mr K was unhappy that any fault for the claim was recorded against him 
and could affect his future insurance. He said UKI wasted two years by initially telling him it 
would defend the claim then changing its position last minute. And he said itd poorly 
handled the claim. 
UKI accepted it couldve handled parts of the claim process better and that some of the 
information it gave to Mr K wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. It apologised for this and 
offered £250 compensation for any trouble and upset caused. It also agreed Mr K could 
retain his no claims bonus by way of a goodwill gesture, but later rescinded this after 
learning Mr K no longer had any no claims bonus due to a previous accident.
Mr K brought a complaint to this service, raising all the issues hed experienced since the 
claim started. He said UKIs actions cost him thousands of pounds in losses alongside his no 
claims bonus, uninsured losses, two mobile phones and his policy excess. Mr K wants UKI 
to either accept responsibility for its actions and pay him an appropriate figure of 
compensation or to re-open the claim and pursue the third party for liability.
Our investigator explained to Mr K, that many of his complaint points werent within our 
jurisdiction to consider. This is because UKI had previously responded to these and paid 
various levels of compensation. But Mr K failed to bring complaints to our service about 
these matters within the relevant timescales applicable under the rules we have to follow. 
So the investigator explained to Mr K, that we could only consider the complaint UKI 
addressed in its final response letter (FRL) that was issued to him in August 2019. Mr K 
understood this.
And after considering this complaint, the investigator said its not our role to decide on 
liability  but from what hed seen, UKI considered the available evidence and reached a fair 
decision on the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. And while he 
acknowledged UKI couldve handled parts of the claim better, he thought £250 was fair 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Throughout the course of this complaint, Mr K has made a number of points. And Ive 
carefully considered whats been said. But in this decision, Ill focus on what I see as being 
the key outstanding issues that are within our power to look at, following our investigators 
assessment of the complaint. And in doing so Ill decide if UKI has dealt with Mr K in a fair 
and reasonable way. 
How the claim was settled
Under the policy terms UKI has the right to take over the settlement of any claim. So, it can 
decide whether to take a third party to court or settle a claim. It isnt the role of this service to 
decide liability, thats a matter for the courts. What I can consider in this case is whether UKI 
handled Mr Ks claim in a fair and reasonable way, and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
From what Ive seen, UKI was initially told the police were bringing criminal proceedings 
against the third party in this case for driving without due care and attention. And in 
correspondence issued to Mr K in 2018, UKI explained that the third-party insurer was 
waiting for the outcome of the criminal proceedings before confirming its position on liability. 
UKI concluded it would have a better chance of recovering its claim costs if the third party 
was found guilty of the charges against them. This logic doesnt seem unreasonable in the 
circumstances of this case and I can see it was explained to Mr K.
UKI also explained that matters of this nature, involving criminal proceedings can be 
complex and that a resolution would likely take a very long time. And it said even if the third 
party was found guilty in these proceedings, there could still be a limited chance of success 
in recovering claim costs, as the third-party insurer could argue that Mr K never maintained a 
safe braking distance when driving. So Im satisfied there was at least some management of 
expectations from UKI in relation to how the claim might be settled.
It transpired the police didnt pursue charges against the third party. So UKI says it 
reconsidered all the available evidence and reviewed the dash cam footage again, seeking 
the opinion of a team leader and a litigator. After doing this UKI says there were concerns 
about how close Mr Ks vehicle was travelling behind the third-party vehicle, especially after 
being advised the third party was driving erratically. And UKI says that as a result of the 
footage, the third-party insurers said they didnt believe their client had induced the accident 
and so would defend any claim it brought for that reason.
UKI says it was satisfied that if the case went to court, the third-party insurer wouldve raised 
the proximity of Mr Ks vehicle to the third-party vehicle, and that a safe braking distance 
hadnt been applied. And taking everything into consideration, UKI concluded it didnt have 
reasonable prospects of a better than 50% recovery of the claim. So it settled the claim as 
split liability.
But Mr K thinks this is unfair. He believes the third party staged the accident and that their 
claim is fraudulent  so he doesnt think any fault should be recorded against him. From 
what Ive seen, Mr K hasnt disputed the proximity of his vehicle to the third parties but says 
the collision was unavoidable because the third party stopped suddenly on a busy motorway 
 giving him no way to avoid the collision. 
Mr K has provided this service with part of the dash-cam footage, which shows the seconds 
leading up to the collision and the collision itself. He says the police have a longer copy of 
the footage which shows more of the lead up to the accident. But so far, hes been unable to 
obtain this.So Ive considered both arguments carefully. And Ive looked at the footage that is available 
to me. I understand Mr K thinks the accident was staged and so he disagrees with the claim 
being recorded as split liability. But based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded UKI acted 
unfairly in its decision on how it settled the claim. Im satisfied it carried out a reasonable 
investigation into the circumstances of this case before reaching a decision on the claim and 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So I wont be telling it to do anything 
further in relation to this.
Claims handling and time taken
Its not unusual that claims involving disputes about liability can take longer to resolve. There 
can be complex issues to deal with  as was the case in this claim, with potential criminal 
proceedings falling through, and challenges from the third-party insurer about who was 
responsible for the accident. And I can see UKI made Mr K aware that the claim could take a 
long time to resolve because of this.
But UKI has admitted that in hindsight, it shouldnt have instructed its legal team to make 
attempts to recover its outlay on Mr Ks claim, as the evidence showed it didnt have 
reasonable prospects of a better than 50% recovery. So I think its likely UKI couldve 
informed Mr K of the outcome of his claim sooner than it did. 
Its also said it shouldnt have requested details of Mr Ks losses as he doesnt have the 
benefit of motor legal protection on his policy. This means he would have to seek his own 
legal advice on this, separate to the policy. And for these errors, UKI has apologised and 
offered Mr K £250 compensation for any trouble and upset caused. 
Mr K doesnt think the compensation is enough. He says he only found out about UKIs 
decision on the claim by accident as it failed to notify him of the outcome. And he says UKIs 
handling of the claim had a significant impact on him, which hes gone into detail about and 
is known to both parties, so I wont repeat it again in this decision. 
But from what Ive seen, much of the impact he wants to be compensated for, stems from 
the road traffic accident itself rather than as a result of UKIs actions. So while I empathise 
with the situation Mr K found himself in after the accident, I cant fairly tell UKI to increase its 
offer of compensation for impacts that were outside of its control and responsibility.
From what Ive seen, UKIs communication with Mr K about the claim settlement couldve 
been better. And its lack of clarity on its prospects of recovery and what losses could be 
pursued under the policy, likely prolonged the time it took to resolve his claim. Mr K says this 
has affected how quickly hes been able to pursue his own legal action for his 
uninsured/personal injury losses, as solicitors told him they wouldnt consider a case until 
liability was decided.
But at the time UKI sent Mr K its FRL in August 2019  which clearly set out its position on 
the claim and his uninsured losses  Mr K was still within the relevant timescales to pursue 
his own legal action if he wished to do so. Ultimately, this is the action hed always need to 
have taken for any claim relating to these matters, as he doesnt have motor legal cover 
under his policy. And theres no guarantee of what the outcome of any legal action may be, 
so I cant reasonably know that Mr K would be in any different position than he is now if hed 
pursued legal action at an earlier date.
But based on the information available to me, Im satisfied theres been a loss of expectation 
and disappointment for Mr K as a result of UKIs poor communication and lack of clarity as 
set out above. And taking everything into account, I think the apology and £250 compensation already offered by UKI in this case is fair and reasonable to put things right in 
relation to this. So I wont be directing UKI to increase this amount any further. 
No claims bonus 
As part of its complaint response, UKI initially agreed to reinstate Mr Ks no claims bonus as 
a gesture of goodwill. However, it later discovered that a few months prior to the December 
2017 accident, Mr K made another claim under a previous policy, which was also settled as 
split liability. So UKI wrote to Mr K explaining that it couldnt honour the no claims bonus 
offer.
I understand this wouldve been disappointing for Mr K, but I cant say UKI acted unfairly by 
doing this. This is because, when making this offer, UKI was under the impression from 
Mr K, that he had 2-3 years no claims bonus. But this wasnt in fact the case, because UKI 
says this was lost as a result of the previous accident. Therefore, I dont think its 
unreasonable UKI is now declining to provide Mr K with something that didnt exist in the first 
place. So I wont be directing it to reinstate the no claims bonus  simply because there isnt 
one to reinstate from what Ive seen.
Im aware Mr K disputes how the previous claim was settled. But that isnt something I can 
consider in this decision. If Mr K is unhappy about this other claim, he would need to pursue 
this as a separate complaint. If he does this and its found that his no claims bonus should 
still be in place, then Id expect UKI to honour its original offer of allowing him to retain it.
Policy excess
Mr K wants UKI to refund him his £300 policy excess. An excess is defined in Mr Ks policy 
as the amount you must pay towards any claim. Mr K made a claim, and whether he agrees 
with the outcome or not, the excess he has to pay still fairly applies. So I wont be directing 
UKI to refund the amount he paid for this.
In summary, while I agree UKI couldve handled Mr Ks claim better, I think its apology and 
offer of £250 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint to 
put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that UKIs offer of £250 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr K, is fair and reasonable to put things right in this case. 
U K Insurance Limited should pay this amount to Mr K if it hasnt done so already. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my 
decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman