DRN-3782320
The complaint
Miss T complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles (NewDay) was irresponsible 
when it provided her with a credit card.
What happened
NewDay opened a credit card account for Miss T in May 2018 with a credit limit of £900. 
This type of credit was an open-ended or running account facility. Within six months of 
taking out the card Miss T had almost reached her credit limit and went over her limit for 
six months in 2020.
Miss T said that NewDay shouldnt have offered her an account due to her high level of 
existing debt. She said that if NewDay had properly checked her credit record before 
accepting her application it would have seen that she was struggling with her finances 
and wouldnt be able to repay more credit within a reasonable period of time. Miss T 
also said that being granted this credit made her financial position worse.
NewDay says that it is an instant credit provider and most of its applications are 
completed online. This means that it doesnt require evidence of income and expenditure 
by way of bank statements, for example, but instead it uses data submitted by the 
applicant and information from their credit file. NewDay said that it had provided the 
account correctly to Miss T based on its checks before agreeing to lend her and didnt 
uphold her complaint.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and found that there wasnt anything in the 
information NewDay had seen to suggest that the credit would be unaffordable for Miss T 
or that she would not have been able to meet her repayments sustainably. They didnt 
recommend that her complaint be upheld.
Miss T disagreed with our investigators recommendation. The complaint came to me, 
as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. I issued a provisional decision on the 11 
October 2022 explaining why I planned to uphold Miss Ts complaint.  Neither party has 
provided me with any further comment or new information to consider in this final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again and having no further comment or new information 
from either Miss T or NewDay, I remain of the view that Miss Ts complaint should be 
upheld. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for NewDay and I hope my 
explanation below makes it clear why I have come to this final conclusion.
As Id said in my provisional decision, when considering this complaint Ive had regard to 
the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in its consumer credit 
handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as NewDay, need to abide by. NewDay will be 
aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I 
wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, NewDay needed to check that Miss T could 
afford to meet her repayments sustainably. In other words, it needed to check she could 
repay the credit out of her usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without 
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and 
Miss Ts circumstances.
NewDay said it asked Miss T about her income, estimated her expenses and included 
information from her credit file about her existing debt repayments before agreeing to lend 
to her. NewDay said Miss T was self-employed with an income of £24,000 (about £1,650 
a month net) and existing debts of £8,800. NewDay said that Miss Ts credit file showed 
she had four defaults (a total of £5,500) the most recent of which occurred 23 months 
previously. She had no county court judgements and no accounts in arrears. It says that 
approving her application with a credit limit of £900 was appropriate.
The regulations stated that if a lender took income or expenditure into account it needed 
to take account of actual current income or expenditure and that it was generally not 
sufficient to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the customer. I 
appreciate that NewDay took steps to sense-check the income figure Miss T had given 
and to estimate her expenditure but, given the amount of debt she had, it doesnt seem 
to me that its usual estimates would be appropriate in this case.
I think it would have been appropriate in these circumstances to consider the amount 
Miss T was paying towards her existing debts each month along with information about 
Miss Ts living costs. I have reviewed Miss Ts bank statements from the time, which I 
think are a reasonable proxy for what NewDay might have found out, had it looked into 
her circumstances in greater depth.
Miss Ts current account statements show that her income was approximately £2,450 on 
average a month made up of state benefits, including disability living allowance, work and 
child tax credits, child benefit and statutory maternity payments. She was paying about 
£575 a month on repaying existing debt. This included payments to a debt collector, other 
credit cards, daily overdraft fees and short term loans. The most recent short term loan 
was for £1,000 taken out the month before. Ive also noted that Miss T didnt earn enough 
to take her out of her (approximately) £800 overdraft in the three months before taking out 
this credit card. Its likely Miss T would need to use her overdraft to meet repayments on 
any further credit she took out.
It seems to me that Miss T had ongoing money problems. I think its likely NewDay would 
have learnt this through a proportionate check and wouldnt have agreed a credit card 
facility for her at that time. I havent seen any evidence that Miss Ts financial situation 
improved over the time she held the account. As mentioned, she used most of her credit 
within six months and went over her limit after two years. Ive concluded that NewDay was 
irresponsible to have agreed a credit card for Miss T on this occasion and it needs to put 
things right for her.
Putting things right
Where we find credit to have been agreed irresponsibly, our approach to putting things 
right is to refund any interest, fees or charges associated with the credit that were paid by 
the borrower. In addition, we usually direct the lender to pay a refund of 8% per annum simple interest on these payments where the borrower was unfairly deprived of their 
money. Wed expect the borrower to repay the credit borrowed as they have had the use 
of this money.
Ive concluded that NewDay was irresponsible when it offered Miss T the account in the 
first place. In order to put Miss T back into the position she would have been in had this 
not happened means she shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges on the account 
from the outset.
Rework Miss Ts account to ensure that from the opening of the account no interest 
is charged. Any late payment or over limit fees should also be removed; and
Apply Miss Ts repayments to this adjusted balance; and
oIf the effect of this reworking results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance to pay, then any remaining amounts paid by Miss T should be treated 
as overpayments and refunded to her along with 8% simple interest* on the 
overpayments from the date they were made until the date of settlement. 
NewDay should also remove any adverse information about the account from 
Miss Ts credit file.
oIf an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made NewDay needs to ensure that Miss T only owes this 
adjusted balance. NewDay should remove any adverse information about this 
account from Miss Ts credit file once any balance has been repaid.
Refund to Miss T any payments shes made toward insurance premiums associated 
with this account, along with 8% simple interest* from the date they were made to the 
date of settlement.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must provide a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if asked.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ts complaint about NewDay Ltd trading 
as Marbles and it now needs to take the above steps to put things right for her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman