DRN-4153977
The complaint
Mr K, whos represented by his solicitors, complains about the interest rate hes been 
charged on his mortgage with TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree.
What happened
Mr K took out his mortgage with the former Northern Rock bank in 2007. He borrowed 
£80,000 over a term of 30 years on a repayment basis. The mortgage was on an initial 
interest rate of 5.89% for the first five years, reverting thereafter to Northern Rocks standard 
variable rate (SVR) from 1 February 2012. 
Mr K also borrowed a linked unsecured loan of £7,000 on the same interest rate over the 
same term. For as long as Mr K retained the mortgage, he would be charged the same 
interest on the unsecured loan as on the mortgage. But if he ever repaid the mortgage 
without also repaying the unsecured loan, the interest rate on the unsecured loan would 
increase to 8% above the SVR.
In 2008, Northern Rock collapsed and was nationalised as part of the wider global financial 
crisis. Much of its mortgage business, including Mr Ks loan, was transferred to a 
government-owned successor firm called NRAM.
NRAM was a closed book lender  meaning it held existing mortgages but did not seek out 
new business or lend to new customers. And it didnt offer new preferential rates to existing 
customers. So all customers  including Mr K  were required to remain on the SVR once 
their initial rate expired, unless they repaid their mortgage or moved to another lender. 
Mr K remained with NRAM until his mortgage was transferred again, this time to TSB Bank 
plc. TSB acquired part of NRAMs mortgage book  it did so under the trading style 
Whistletree. Whistletree is merely a trading style and not a separate entity in its own right, 
and so TSB (trading as Whistletree) is now Mr Ks lender and is responsible for answering 
this complaint. 
For ease, Ill refer to the mortgages (including Mr Ks) transferred from NRAM as the 
Whistletree book charging the Whistletree SVR, and the rest of TSB Bank plcs mortgage 
business as the TSB book charging the TSB SVR (or other reversion rates). And in talking 
about the regulated entity that owns both books, Ill refer to TSB Bank plc.
With the assistance of his solicitor, Mr K complained to Whistletree. He said:
The mortgage offer did not explain what was meant by the standard variable rate, 
and as a result Mr K was misled into believing that the rate would vary in accordance 
with the Bank of England base rate rather than at the lenders discretion.
The terms and conditions were contained in a separate document to the mortgage 
offer and so not incorporated into the contract. And even if they were, it is unfair to 
expect a consumer to pore over the small print to understand a key term.
The meaning of the SVR, and that it could be varied other than in accordance with 
base rate, should have been clearly explained in the mortgage offer. Not doing so 
means the interest rate section of the mortgage offer is unfair. 
The term of the mortgage contract enabling the lender to vary the interest rate was 
an unfair term within the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1990 (UTCCR). It lacked transparency and caused a significant 
imbalance between Mr K and the lender. 
The reasons given in the contract allowing the SVR to be varied are vague and 
generalised and lack objective clarity, and are not written in plain language. This was 
a completely unfettered power to vary the SVR at will.
Mr K didnt have an effective right to end the mortgage contract because of an early 
repayment charge (ERC) and the costs associated with redeeming this mortgage and 
taking out another.
As an unfair term, the variation term is unenforceable and should be replaced with an 
implied term that the SVR should be set at a reasonable rate corresponding to the 
lenders cost of funds and not unconnected or external factors.
As a result, the lenders breached Principle 6 of the regulators rules, requiring a firm 
to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly, and to 
assess whether a mortgage would be affordable before entering into it.
In redress, Mr K seeks the difference between what he would have been charged at 
a reasonable rate of interest and what he actually paid.
Whistletree responded to Mr Ks complaint. It said:
It did not agree that the term entitling it (and the predecessor lenders) to vary the 
interest rate was an unfair term. In any case it said it was a core term and thus 
excluded from any assessment of unfairness.
It did not agree that the mortgage wasnt binding on Mr K.
It did not agree it had acted in breach of the rules of mortgage regulation or the 
regulators wider principles. 
Mr K had been fairly and lawfully charged the interest owing under his mortgage 
agreement. 
In any case, the complaint was out of time because it was brought more than six 
years after Mr K took out the mortgage. 
As he wasnt satisfied with Whistletrees response, Mr K brought his complaint to our 
service. It was looked at by one of our investigators. At first, she dealt with the question of 
time limits. She said that she could only consider the fairness of interest charged within the 
six years leading up to Mr Ks complaint  since he would have been aware (or ought 
reasonably to have been aware) of cause for complaint about interest charged before that at 
the time it was charged. That meant she would only consider the fairness of interest charged 
from 10 March 2014 onwards. And for the same reasons, the complaint about being misled 
about the nature of the SVR at the start of the mortgage was also out of time. 
The investigator also said that in considering the fairness of interest charged in the six years leading up to Mr Ks complaint, she would need to take into account previous variations of 
the SVR which took place before that period. A complaint about those variations of 
themselves is out of time. But those variations may provide important context to explain why 
the SVR was charged at the level it was charged at during the period which was in time  
since at any given time, the level of the SVR is the sum of the parts of its history leading up 
to that date. She was therefore satisfied that those matters were potentially relevant as part 
of all the circumstances of the case she would need to take into account in considering what 
was fair and reasonable during the period that was in time.
Mr Ks representatives accepted the investigators conclusions on jurisdiction. Whistletree 
did not ask for them to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So our investigator went on to 
consider the merits of that part of Mr Ks complaint she said had been brought in time. In 
summary, she concluded:
The mortgage offer and terms and conditions did not suggest that the SVR was 
linked to or tracked the Bank of England base rate. And therefore it was not unfair 
that the SVR had not been set, or varied, solely by reference to base rate.
Northern Rocks general mortgage conditions formed part of the mortgage contract 
agreed by Mr K. The conditions set out when the SVR could be varied. 
Whether or not the SVR term was a fair term is ultimately a question for the courts. 
But the fairness of the term is nevertheless relevant law to be taken into account. 
And the investigator noted that in her view it was arguable that the term lacked 
transparency and was drafted in such a way to give the lender broad discretion to 
vary the SVR. She also noted that Mr K had a linked unsecured loan on which  if the 
mortgage was ever repaid  the interest rate would rise to 8% above the SVR. She 
thought this might amount to a practical barrier, foreseeable at the time of the sale, 
constraining Mr Ks ability to move his mortgage elsewhere if he was unhappy with 
the exercise of the term.
But she noted that the key question was whether Whistletree or its predecessors had 
ever used the SVR variation term in a way that resulted in unfairness to Mr K within 
the six years that she could consider.
To that end, she considered whether, when the term had been exercised, there were 
legitimate reasons for Whistletree or its predecessors to vary the SVR in the way 
they did. 
She noted that prior to 2012 Mr K was on a fixed rate and his interest rate was not 
related to the SVR. Between 2007 when the mortgage was taken out and 2012, 
Northern Rock and NRAM had only reduced the SVR. Though over this time the 
margin between the SVR and base rate increased  because the SVR did not reduce 
to the same extent base rate reduced  she was satisfied that this was not an 
arbitrary decision or that it amounted to profiteering, as Mr Ks representatives had 
alleged. Rather, she was persuaded that while Northern Rock and then NRAMs 
costs reduced over this period, those costs were not directly linked to base rate and 
did not reduce to the extent base rate reduced. The decisions to reduce the SVR, 
and to reduce only to the extent that it was reduced, were legitimate decisions and 
did not result in an SVR that was disproportionate compared to the range of SVRs in 
the wider mortgage market.
After Mr K reverted to a rate linked to the SVR, in 2012, there were no further SVR 
variations prior to the transfer to Whistletree in 2016.Since Whistletree took over Mr Ks mortgage, it has only varied the SVR at the same 
time as, and by the same amount as, changes in Bank of England base rate. 
She noted that Whistletree had shown that its own funding costs were linked to 
LIBOR, and later to SONIA. While LIBOR and SONIA are not directly linked to base 
rate, and so Whistletrees costs were not directly linked to base rate, movements in 
LIBOR and then SONIA broadly corresponded with changes in base rate over this 
period. She was satisfied that the changes since 2016 were made in line with the 
terms and conditions and that Whistletree had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr K and his representatives didnt accept what our investigator said, and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In summary, Mr Ks representatives said:
The fact that the loan was transferred to an inactive lender, and that the unsecured 
loan might leave him in negative equity, could not have been contemplated by Mr K 
at the start of the loan, but are relevant to the assessment of fairness.
If NRAMs funding was related to the government loan, it seems likely that it was an 
imperative for NRAM to repay that loan as quickly as possible  which in turn drove it 
to set and maintain its SVR above the industry norm, and significantly above base 
rate. This can only be profiteering. The SVR was set to increase NRAMs profits at 
the expense of its customers.
Mr Ks representatives also raised a further matter for consideration:
Even if the NRAM SVR was justified by the costs of the government loan, that cannot 
have applied following the transfer to Whistletree as a private company which did not 
owe the government loan. 
When the mortgage was transferred from NRAM to Whistletree in 2016, the NRAM 
SVR was 4.79%. At the same time, the TSB SVR was substantially lower. Acting 
fairly, TSB should have charged Whistletree customers such as Mr K the same SVR 
as it charged its other customers, rather than maintaining them on the same SVR it 
inherited from NRAM. 
This meant that Mr K paid a higher rate of interest than he would have done had TSB 
equalised the Whistletree and TSB SVRs. Where one bank treats two groups of 
customers in different ways, that cannot be because of the banks cost of funding, 
which must be the same for both groups of customers. Similarly the banks prudential 
obligations to hold funds do not vary for different groups of customers. 
It should be assessed whether the SVR was fair on transfer. At this time interest 
rates were not increasing, there was no government loan owed by Whistletree, and 
the factors relating to the global financial crisis were long in the past. 
Clause 7 of Northern Rocks general mortgage conditions, which the investigator 
cited, cannot be relevant. Those terms were only ever intended to relate to Northern 
Rock, and therefore ceased to have any contractual application or practical 
relevance following the transfer of the mortgage. 
As is clear from the TSB SVR, the way TSB Bank plc  including Whistletree  
operated was very different from Northern Rock and NRAM. And so even if the SVR 
was set according to the need for a prudent level of profitability or for good 
commercial reasons, the Whistletree SVR should have been set at the same level 
as the TSB SVR.The focus should therefore not just be on the SVR variations carried out by Northern 
Rock and NRAM  but also on Whistletrees failure to vary the SVR. There was no 
justification for continuing to maintain the SVR at a margin of 4.29% above base rate 
when the reasons for setting it at that margin no longer applied by virtue of the 
transfer to Whistletree. 
In those circumstances, in maintaining the SVR at such a high level Whistletree was 
acting in breach of express and implied terms of the mortgage contract. And this did 
not result in fair treatment of Mr K. 
In response to these further arguments, Whistletree said:
It is not correct to say that the two groups of customers  Whistletree and TSB  are 
the same and must be treated in the same way. There is no requirement for all 
customers of a firm to be charged the same interest rate and there are many 
examples of firms that have distinct books of mortgages, with distinct rates, within the 
firm.
Since acquiring Mr Ks mortgage, Whistletree has only varied the SVR to reflect 
changes in base rate  and changes to the Whistletree SVR were made at the same 
time, and by the same amount, as changes to the Bank of England base rate. 
The starting point was inherited by Whistletree on the transfer. The investigator found 
that NRAM had acted fairly in setting the SVR at that level. 
It is not correct to say that the Northern Rock General Conditions no longer apply. 
The terms and conditions continue to apply after a transfer. The existing contract was 
assigned to TSB Bank plc but otherwise continued on the same terms. There is no 
requirement to review the SVR on transfer, and the relevant question is whether, 
when making further variations, Whistletree acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions. In maintaining the SVR at the same level as at acquisition, until it was 
entitled to vary it under the terms and conditions, Whistletree acted in accordance 
with the contract and acted fairly. 
TSB Bank plc manages its costs of funds at bank level and does not separate out its 
costs as between the TSB and Whistletree books. However, cost of funds is not the 
only factor relevant to the level of the SVR and there are other differences between 
the two books.
These differences include:
oThe Whistletree book has a higher overall credit risk and default risk than the 
TSB book. It is reasonable to reflect this higher risk in the level of the SVRs 
charged by the two books.
oThe Whistletree book has, on average, higher loan to values than the TSB 
book. This and other factors mean that TSB Bank plc has to hold 
proportionately higher capital in respect of Whistletree mortgages than it does 
in respect of TSB mortgages to comply with its prudential obligations. It is 
reasonable to reflect the higher cost of capital in the level of the SVRs 
charged by the two books.
oThe Whistletree book is not managed by TSB Bank plc directly. It outsources 
the administration of the loans to the same third party administrator that 
managed them on behalf of NRAM, providing continuity. It is reasonable to reflect the different costs of administering the two books in the level of the 
SVRs the two books charge.
TSB Bank plc did not review the SVR on acquisition and re-set it anew, it simply 
maintained Mr Ks mortgage on its existing terms and conditions including interest 
rate. But had it done so, those differences would in any case have justified setting the 
Whistletree SVR at a higher level than the TSB SVR.
For all those reasons, the TSB SVR is not relevant to whether the Whistletree SVR, 
leading to the rate Mr K was charged, is a fair rate.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. In brief summary, I said:
Under the time limit rules applying to the Financial Ombudsman Service, I could only 
consider the fairness of interest charged since 10 March 2014  though in doing so it 
would be necessary to consider the impact of events before that date on the fairness 
of interest charged after that date as part of all the circumstances of the case.
Both the mortgage offer and the general terms and conditions formed part of the 
mortgage contract.
The term allowing the successive lenders to vary the SVR was set out in the terms 
and conditions. 
While a court may consider parts of contractual terms allowing the SVR to be varied 
to be unfair, it is also necessary for me to consider how the term has been used in 
practice, and whether that has resulted in unfairness to Mr K.
I was not persuaded that the term had been exercised in such a way that resulted in 
unfairness to Mr K between 10 March 2014 and the date of transfer to Whistletree.
I was satisfied that Whistletree had shown there was good reason why it chose to 
maintain the rate charged to Mr K at a level equivalent to the NRAM SVR (plus 
discount) rather than reducing it to the TSB SVR.
I was satisfied that the variations to the SVR since the transfer to Whistletree had not 
resulted in unfairness to Mr K. 
I therefore said that I was not minded to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr Ks representatives had no further arguments to make. Whistletree said that it agreed 
with the overall outcome, but that it did not agree with certain specific parts of my provisional 
decision. In particular, it said:
It continued to disagree that the SVR variation term was assessable for fairness 
under the UTCCRs. And, in any case, since I had ultimately decided Mr Ks 
complaint on broader questions of fairness, it was not necessary for me to 
speculate on what a court might or might not conclude on such a complex legal 
question. It also did not consider I had reached a view consistent with what other 
ombudsmen had said in other cases.There is no single TSB SVR  TSB operates a range of reversion rates.
Since the transfer, Whistletree had only varied the SVR to the same extent as 
changes to base rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what the parties have said in response to my provisional decision, and 
having done so I see no reason to change my mind  either as to the overall outcome, or as 
to the reasons for it. My final conclusions are therefore largely the same as my provisional 
conclusions. But in what follows I will, where relevant, address the further matters 
Whistletree has put forward. 
Im aware that TSB has a range of reversion rates. For residential mortgages, it has the 
Homeowner Variable Rate, the Follow-On Tracker Rate, and the Standard Variable 
Mortgage Rate (SVR), as well as a separate reversion rate for buy to let mortgages. 
However, in my provisional decision I referred, and in what follows Ill refer, to the TSB SVR 
 because Mr Ks representatives referred specifically to TSBs SVR as the rate with which 
the Whistletree SVR should have been harmonised. The SVR is the lowest of the three 
residential reversion rates TSB operates. But my conclusions are equally applicable to 
whether Whistletree ought to have aligned its SVR with any of TSBs other reversion rates.
The relevant terms and conditions applicable to this mortgage
When Mr K took out his mortgage in 2007, he was issued with a mortgage offer and a copy 
of Northern Rocks general mortgage conditions.
Section 4 of the mortgage offer says:
This secured mortgage is based on the following interest rate periods:
a fixed rate of 5.89% until 1 February 2012
followed by
a variable rate which is guaranteed to be below Northern Rock Standard Variable 
Rate, which is currently 7.34%, for the remainder of the term of the mortgage.
If Northern Rocks standard variable rate changes, we will review the interest rate 
applicable to your mortgage on the first working day of the following month. We will then 
notify you in writing of your new interest rate and payment, which will take effect from the 
first day of the month following the review.
We will follow this procedure whether Northern Rocks standard variable rate rises or 
falls.
Please note that the payments illustrated for this period of the mortgage in section 6 of 
this document are based on Northern Rocks current Standard Variable Rate.
Although Mr Ks mortgage is on a rate guaranteed to be below the SVR, in practice its been set at 0.01% below the SVR. For ease, Ill refer to the SVR in this decision as following 
the end of the fixed rate its the SVR  and any changes to it the lenders may or may not 
have been entitled to make  which determined the interest rate applicable to Mr Ks 
mortgage.
Edition 3 of Northern Rocks Mortgage General Conditions, section 7 says
7. Changing the Interest Rate
7.1 We may reduce the Standard Variable Rate at any time.
7.2 We may increase the Standard Variable Rate at any time if one of more of the 
following reasons applies:
(a) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
trend to increase interest rates on mortgages generally or mortgages similar to yours;
(b) for good commercial reasons, we need to fund an increase in the interest rates 
we pay to our own funders;
(c) we wish to adjust our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent level of 
profitability;
(d) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
increase in the risk of shortfalls on the accounts of mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only), or mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only) whose accounts are similar to yours;
(e) our administrative costs have increased or are likely to do so in the near future.
Standard Variable Rate is defined in section 1 as
 such rate as we from time to time decide to set as the base from which to 
calculate Interest on our variable rate mortgage loans (disregarding the restrictions 
on what we can charge under condition 7 or the Offer). The current Standard 
Variable Rate which applies to your Loan is set out in the Offer. We may change this 
rate from time to time under condition 7 or the Offer. If we transfer or dispose of the 
Offer, the person to whom we make the transfer may change the rate to its own base 
rate which it applies to its variable rate mortgage loans. That rate will then be the 
Standard Variable Rate under the Offer and the person to whom we make the 
transfer may make further changes under condition 7 or the Offer.
Mr Ks representative says that the general conditions document is not of any contractual 
application or practical relevance to his mortgage following the transfer away from Northern 
Rock, since these are specifically Northern Rocks standard mortgage conditions and 
therefore ceased to apply when Northern Rock was no longer his lender.
I dont agree about that. It doesnt seem to me to be compatible with the general principles 
under which a party may assign the benefit of a contract to which it is party to someone else 
 which involves the assignee taking over the contract on the same terms and conditions.
And in any case, this is specifically provided for in the terms and conditions.
Section 1.1 (a) sayswe, us and our refer to Northern Rock plc and anyone who becomes entitled at 
law or in equity to any of our rights under the Offer (this will include any person to 
whom we transfer the Offer under condition 19)
Section 19 says
19.1 We may transfer or change or otherwise dispose of the Offer or any of our rights 
under the offer (including the right to set the Interest Rate) to any person at any time 
at law or in equity without your consent. Where we transfer to any person the right to 
set the Interest Rate, that person may set the interest charged under the Offer by 
reference to that persons own (or one of its own) standard variable rates.
In agreeing to this mortgage, therefore, Mr K agreed that Northern Rock could transfer the 
mortgage on to another lender. This happened when it was transferred to NRAM, and again 
when it was transferred to Whistletree. On both occasions, the mortgage terms and 
conditions continued as before, except that the new lender not Northern Rock was now the 
counterparty.
Mr Ks representative has also suggested that the general conditions dont apply in any case 
because they were set out in a separate document to the mortgage offer  and that the 
mortgage offer itself is the only contractual document.
But I dont agree about that. Theres no obligation to include all the terms and conditions of a 
contract in a single document. And, in cases such as this where there are bespoke elements 
specific to Mr K  such as the amount lent and term of the lending  and generic elements 
applicable to all customers, its not unreasonable for there to be two separate documents 
each forming part of the overall contract.
Im also not persuaded that its unreasonable for the successive lenders to rely on the 
general conditions because they were small print that Mr K couldnt have been expected to 
read. A mortgage is a substantial commitment  one of the largest commitments many 
people will ever make  and its reasonable to expect a borrower to read all the relevant 
documentation before agreeing to be bound by it. Im satisfied its reasonable to expect Mr K 
to have read them, and to treat him as if he had done so and was bound by both the offer 
and the general conditions, whether or not he actually did so.
For all those reasons, Im satisfied that both the mortgage offer and the general conditions 
are part of the terms and conditions of Mr Ks mortgage, and both are relevant matters for 
me to take into account in determining whether the SVR was set in line with the terms and 
conditions and set fairly and reasonably in the period I can consider.
The history of the SVR
The table below sets the history of the SVR for the life of Mr Ks mortgage until he made this 
complaint  though it should be noted that Mr K was on a fixed rate until 2012, and it was 
only after reversion that the interest rate he was charged became linked to the SVR at all.
But nonetheless all changes since inception of the mortgage are given below, on the basis 
that the cumulative effect of those changes led to the SVR being set at the level it was on 
reversion.
Date Base rate SVR* Difference between 
base rate and SVR
01/08/2007 5.75% 7.84% 2.09%
06/12/2007 5.50%01/01/2008 7.69% 2.19%
07/02/2008 5.25%
01/03/2008 7.59% 2.34%
10/04/2008 5.00%
01/05/2008 7.49% 2.49%
08/10/2008 4.50%
01/11/2008 7.34% 2.84%
06/11/2008 3.00%
01/12/2008 5.84% 2.84%
04/12/2008 2.00%
01/01/2009 5.34% 3.34%
08/01/2009 1.50%
01/02/2009 5.09% 3.59%
05/02/2009 1.00%
01/03/2009 4.79% 3.79%
05/03/2009 0.50%
01/04/2009 4.79% 4.29%
Mr K was on a fixed rate until 1 February 2012 when he reverted to a rate 0.01% below the 
4.79% SVR - so paying 4.78% thereafter. There were no further changes to the SVR while 
NRAM owned the loan.
Mr Ks mortgage was transferred to Whistletree in July 2016. The SVR continued to be 
4.79% following the transfer, and Mr K continued to be charged 4.78%, until Whistletree 
further varied the SVR later in 2016.
04/08/2016 0.25%
01/10/2016 4.54% 4.29%
02/11/2017 0.50%
01/01/2018 4.79% 4.29%
02/08/2018 0.75%
01/10/2018 5.04% 4.29%
11/03/2020 0.50%
19/03/2020 0.10%
01/04/2020 4.39% 4.29%
*At all times he was not subject to a fixed rate, Mr K was paying 0.01% below the SVR
Was NRAM and then Whistletree under a contractual obligation to charge Mr K an interest 
rate that tracked the Bank of England base rate?
Mr K has complained that he was misled when he took out the mortgage, and was led to 
believe that the SVR would track the Bank of England base rate at the same margin as was 
the case at inception of the mortgage in 2007.
Ive explained that this part of the complaint is out of time. But I can consider whether, in the 
period I am considering, NRAM and then Whistletree were under an obligation to charge an 
SVR that tracked the Bank of England base rate, whether at the margin that applied at 
inception or otherwise.
In the period I can consider from 10 March 2014, as the table above shows, the SVR did in 
fact track base rate  in the sense that NRAM and Whistletree only varied it at the same time 
as, and to the same extent as, base rate changed. But the margin between the SVR and 
base rate was 4.29%, compared to 2.09% at inception.I think the mortgage offer is written in clear and intelligible language. It makes clear that the 
SVR is a variable rate  that the lenders are entitled to vary it  and theres no suggestion 
that the SVR is linked to the Bank of England base rate or any other external reference rate. 
It also makes clear that payment information for the period after reversion in 2012 is based 
on the SVR at the time of reversion  which might be different from what was set out in the 
offer.
Weve found that any complaint that Mr K was misled into taking the mortgage in the belief 
that it was linked to base rate is out of time. But in determining the fairness of the interest 
rate charged during the period of time I can consider, Im also satisfied that there is nothing 
in the mortgage offer that compels the lender to link the SVR to base rate or suggests that it 
would do so. Nor is there anything that suggests that the SVR would always be a particular 
margin above base rate.
Section 7 of the general conditions says that the lender may increase the SVR if there has 
been (or is reasonably expected to be) a general trend to increase interest rates on 
mortgages generally or mortgages similar to yours. But this again does not say that the 
mortgage is linked to base rate, will always be set by reference to base rate, or will always 
be a particular margin above base rate.
I am satisfied that the SVR is not a tracker rate and that there is no obligation on the 
successive lenders to set the SVR by reference to Bank of England base rate, or to maintain 
the SVR at any particular margin over base rate. Nor is there anything that could reasonably 
have given Mr K the expectation that this would happen. It follows that I dont uphold this 
part of his complaint.
That being the case, the successive lenders were entitled under the terms and conditions to 
vary the SVR independently of base rate. In considering whether  in the period I can 
consider  they did so fairly and reasonably, I must next consider the relevant law relating to 
whether the SVR variation term is a fair term.
The fairness of the SVR variation term
Ive set out the relevant terms above. In considering whether the variation term is a fair term, 
Ive taken into account the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR), 
which was the relevant law at this time and applicable to this contract. While the application 
of the UTCCR is ultimately a matter for the courts, they are relevant law and so a relevant 
consideration I must take into account in determining what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.
In response to my provisional decision, Whistletree said that it wasnt necessary for me to 
consider this question, since I had ultimately decided the case on fairness more generally. 
But I dont agree about that. This is a specific part of Mr Ks complaint as put forward by his 
representative. And under our rules, Im required to take into account  among other things  
relevant law. In considering whether one party to a contract has acted fairly or in line with the 
terms and conditions, the fairness of the term relied on is relevant law. Its therefore 
necessary for me to take it into account. 
I also dont agree that doing so amounts to speculation about what a court might decide. In 
order to consider whether the law is relevant to this complaint and if so to take it into 
account, I must first set out my understanding of what the law is. Questions of law are 
ultimately matters for the courts  but under our rules I am required to take relevant law into 
account. In this case, both the relevance and the application  if relevant  of the law to the 
terms of the mortgage contract is in dispute. While such disputes are ultimately matters for 
the courts to resolve, in order for me to take into account relevant law, therefore, it is necessary for me to consider what a court might find when presented with that dispute. In 
my view, thats not speculation  its a necessary part of understanding what the relevant 
law is so that I may take it into account appropriately.
The relevant law
Regulation 5(1) says:
A contractual term which has not been individually negotiated shall be regarded as 
unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in 
the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the 
consumer.
Regulation 6 says:
(1) ... the unfairness of a contractual term shall be assessed, taking into account the 
nature of the goods or services for which the contract was concluded and by 
referring, at the time of conclusion of the contract, to all the circumstances attending 
the conclusion of the contract and to all the other terms of the contract or of another 
contract on which it is dependent.
So its important to remember that I have to consider whether the variation terms were unfair 
based on the situation when Mr K took the mortgage out.
Mr Ks representative says I should also take into account that his mortgage was later 
transferred to an inactive lender. But I dont agree  I dont think it was reasonably 
foreseeable at the time the mortgage was taken out that Northern Rock would later collapse 
and be nationalized.
(2) In so far as it is in plain intelligible language, the assessment of fairness of a term 
shall not relate -
(a) To the definition of the main subject matter of the contract, or
(b) To the adequacy of the price or remuneration, as against the goods or services 
supplied in exchange.
The UTCCR includes a non-exhaustive grey list in Schedule 2 of example terms that may 
be regarded as unfair. This list includes the following example:
1. Terms which have the object and effect of-
(j) enabling the seller or supplier to alter the terms of the contract unilaterally without 
a valid reason which is specified in the contract
However, the scope of this is limited by paragraph 2(b) of this Schedule which states:
Paragraph 1(j) is without hindrance to terms under which a supplier of financial 
services reserves the right to alter the rate of interest payable by the consumer or 
due to the latter, or the amount of other charges for financial services without notice 
where there is a valid reason, provided that the supplier is required to inform the 
other contracting party or parties thereof at the earliest opportunity and that the latter 
are free to dissolve the contract immediately.Regulation 8 sets out the remedy were a court to find a contract term unfair. It says:
(1) An unfair term in a contract concluded with a consumer by a seller or supplier 
shall not be binding on the consumer.
(2) The contract shall continue to bind the parties if it is capable of continuing in 
existence without the unfair term.
There is a body of case law from both UK courts and the Court of Justice of the European 
Union (CJEU) which has considered the fairness of various terms over time, although the 
latter only provide general guidance as it's for the UK courts to decide if a particular term is 
unfair. I have referred to this below where relevant.
Main subject matter of the contract: Regulation 6(2) of the UTCCR says that any terms 
that relate to the main subject-matter of the contract or adequacy of the price and 
remuneration - these are often described as "core terms"  cannot be assessed for fairness 
if they are sufficiently transparent and prominent. So if the SVR variation clause is a core 
term, a court may not be able to consider whether it was unfair for the purposes of the 
UTCCR.
The CJEU concluded that a price variation clause in a contract is not a 'core term' in the 
Invitel case (Case C-472/10). It said:
"the assessment of the unfair nature of terms is to relate neither to the definition of 
the main subject-matter of the contract nor to the adequacy of the price and 
remuneration ... this exclusion cannot apply to a term relating to a mechanism for 
amending the prices of the services provided to the consumer."
Fairness: The leading UK judgment on the UTCCR is the 2015 Supreme Court case 
ParkingEye v Beavis. The Court noted that the test in Regulation 5(1) - of a "significant 
imbalance" contrary to the requirement of "good faith" - merely defines in a general way the 
factors which render unfair those contract terms that have not been individually negotiated.
The Court said that:
the test for establishing a significant imbalance includes, but is not limited to, asking 
whether the terms of the agreement deprive the consumer of an advantage which 
they would enjoy under national law in the absence of the contractual provision;
the question of whether a term is contrary to the requirements of good faith depends 
on an objective hypothetical negotiation, asking whether an informed consumer 
would have agreed to the term in question during individual contract negotiations. 
This should take into account a wider circumstantial review, such as the relationship 
with other relevant contractual terms; and
consideration should be given to the nature of the goods or services supplied, 
including the significance, purpose and effect of the term in question.
FCA guidance (FG18/07) on unfair terms in consumer contracts says
The fairness assessment is a holistic assessment and these two elements may 
overlap in the way they apply to any particular set of facts
and that the applicable lawrecognises the importance of striking a fair balance between the legitimate interests 
of both the supplier and consumer.
That means that the seller or supplier may be able to show theyve acted in good faith where 
they can show theyve taken the consumers legitimate interests into account. That guidance 
also provides an overview of factors relevant to determining whether or not a variation term 
is fair. Although it applies to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (which is the successor 
legislation to the UTCCRs) I am satisfied that these factors  which I discuss further below  
are relevant to this assessment.
The good faith requirement behind the test is multi-faceted, as was explained by Lord 
Bingham (in the context of the original 1994 Regulations) as follows:
The requirement of good faith in this context is one of fair and open dealing. 
Openness requires that the terms should be expressed fully, clearly and legibly, 
containing no concealed pitfalls or traps. Appropriate prominence should be given to 
terms which might operate disadvantageously to the customer. Fair dealing requires 
that a supplier should not, whether deliberately or unconsciously, take advantage of 
the consumers necessity, indigence, lack of experience, unfamiliarity with the subject 
matter of the contract, weak bargaining position or any other factor listed in or 
analogous to those listed in Schedule 2 to the [1994] Regulations. Good faith in this 
context is not an artificial or technical concept;  . It looks to good standards of 
commercial morality and practice. Regulation 4(1) lays down a composite test, 
covering both the making and the substance of the contract, and must be applied 
bearing clearly in mind the objective which the Regulations are designed to promote.
Transparency: In Kasler (Case C- 26/13) the CJEU considered the meaning of 'plain 
intelligible language' in the context of terms in a loan agreement. It said that the requirement 
of transparency must be understood in a broad sense. A term which has the effect of 
increasing the cost at the consumer's expense didn't just have to be formally and 
grammatically correct, but the reason for and particularities of a variation term have to be 
clear and intelligible. So does the term's relationship with other terms in the contract, relating 
to the advance of the loan. This is so the average consumer is aware of the variation term 
and can assess the potential economic consequences for them which might derive from it.
In RWE (Case C/92/11) the CJEU stressed that it is of fundamental importance for that 
purpose, first, whether the contract sets out in transparent fashion the reason for and 
method of the variation of the charges for the service to be provided, so that the consumer 
can foresee, on the basis of clear, intelligible criteria, the alterations that may be made to 
those charges. In addition, the CJEU was concerned that the customer is provided with 
meaningful criteria by which they can verify, and if necessary challenge, any proposed 
variation to the rate.
In Matei (C-143/13) the CJEU referred to the loan agreement needing to set out 
transparently the reasons for and the particularities of the mechanism for altering the 
interest rate and the relationship between that mechanism and the other terms relating to the 
lenders remuneration, so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis of clear, intelligible 
criteria, the economic consequences for him which derive from it.
So when considering whether the SVR variation clause is sufficiently transparent, I will need 
to consider whether it gives the customer adequate clarity on not only the reasons for the 
variation, but also the method used so that the customer can foresee the economic 
consequences of the banks power to change the SVR and verify the basis for the change to 
the rate.Barriers to exit: In RWE the CJEU placed a great deal of importance on the consumer not 
only having the right to terminate the contract in the event of a unilateral price variation; but 
actually being able to exercise this right in practice. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
guidance states at paragraphs 66 and 67 that firms should consider the consumers freedom 
to exit the contract if they do not accept the variation, and how they can actually do so. This 
should include the financial and practical barriers which may prevent them from doing so 
within any advance notice or reasonable timeframe. Examples of barriers could be exit 
charges or requiring the consumer to give a long period of notice, but may also be practical 
barriers outside the contractual terms that might prevent or hinder the consumer exiting the 
contract within any advance notice period or reasonable timeframe.
So, when considering whether the terms give rise to a significant imbalance in the rights and 
obligations of the parties contrary to the requirements of good faith, I will need to consider 
whether and the extent to which, at the time it was entered into, an average consumer would 
foreseeably have been able to exercise the right to terminate the contract in practice.
Application of the relevant law to this complaint
I have considered the relevance of the law relating to unfair terms to the interest rate 
variation term in this case. Im satisfied that I need to address the following in deciding 
whether the SVR variation clause was unfair:
Whether the term is a core term
Whether the term creates a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations 
to the consumers detriment contrary to the requirement of good faith.
I have reminded myself that the decision whether a term is unfair should be made in light of 
what sort of contract is in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the other 
terms say and all the circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing 
whether a term is unfair involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, 
and then as it were standing back to consider the term in its full context, both within the 
contract and in all the surrounding circumstances.
Core term: Properly understood, the variation clause relates to the mechanism for amending 
the price of the services provided, rather than the price itself. In Invitel the CJEU took a 
similar view. It is therefore an ancillary term whose fairness can be assessed under the 
applicable fair terms legislation. Whistletree has said that section 7 is a core term which 
cannot be assessed for fairness. But I dont agree about that. The SVR variation term does 
not go to the main subject matter of the contract or the adequacy of remuneration. It does 
not set the price; it provides a mechanism for amending the price set elsewhere in the 
contract.
So Ive gone on to consider whether the term creates a significant imbalance in the rights 
and obligations of the parties contrary to the requirements of good faith.
Significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good faith: In order to consider 
this I need to undertake a holistic (or in the round) analysis of whether the terms strike a fair 
balance between the legitimate interests of both the supplier and consumer. In doing so I 
have looked at:
Whether the terms deprive consumers of an advantage they would enjoy under 
national law in the absence of the terms;
Whether the terms go further than is reasonably necessary to protect the lenders legitimate interests and whether the lender, dealing equitably and fairly with a 
consumer, could reasonably assume that the average consumer would have agreed 
to the term in hypothetical individual contract negotiations;
Whether there were significant practical barriers to dissolving the agreement that 
may show unfairness.
I note that the FCA Guidance sets out at paragraph 41 a list of factors that may make a term 
unfair. I also note that the guidance says that the assessment is intensely fact-specific:
Subject to the general law on unfair contract terms and to proper consideration of all 
the relevant circumstances, we consider that the factors listed in the table are 
relevant when assessing the fairness of variation terms. There may be other factors 
to consider, and the presence or absence of one or more of the factors does not 
necessarily mean that a term is fair or unfair. The factors are not listed in order of 
importance and there is some overlap between them. The weight to be given to the 
factors will depend on all the circumstances relevant to the assessment of the 
fairness of the particular term.
As discussed above, I need to ask whether the terms of the agreement deprive the 
consumer of an advantage which they would enjoy under national law if the term was/the 
terms were not there. Im not satisfied that an interest rate variation clause does this in and 
of itself. Thats because, at a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose. As the 
FCA guidance says at paragraph 34:
Unilateral variation terms are common in financial services consumer contracts. This 
is particularly the case for contracts of long or indeterminate duration, such as current 
account, personal pension, mortgage or credit card agreements. We acknowledge 
the benefit of fair variation terms to firms and consumers, because they allow 
contracts to be changed over their lifetime, making them more available to 
consumers. For example, being able to change variable-rate contracts allows firms to 
offer competitively-priced products that do not just track base rate, so offering 
consumers greater choice. This is because firms know that they can vary the interest 
rates they charge to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs 
of funding
Reversion rates serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for future 
changes that justify increases in the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds are by nature 
difficult to foresee. There may be other factors relevant to the price which vary over time  
such as the risk of default or arrears. This is particularly true of a long term arrangement 
such as a mortgage contract.
So Im satisfied that, if the agreement itself didnt include a rate variation clause, its 
reasonable to assume that national law would provide for a mechanism allowing a lender to 
vary the rate for legitimate reasons. And I think the average customer could reasonably be 
assumed to accept this and agree to it in hypothetical negotiations.
I think the real issues regarding fairness are whether the terms in this agreement go further 
than reasonably necessary to protect the lenders legitimate interests, whether the SVR 
variation clauses are sufficiently transparent, and whether there were significant barriers to 
Mr K dissolving the contract.
Taking all that into account, I think theres a real possibility a court may conclude that the 
variation term does not meet the transparency requirement. While its grammatically clear 
and easy to follow, the term is broad and gives the successive lenders significant scope for discretion about when the SVR can be varied and by how much.
Section 7.1 allows reductions to the SVR for any reason, and is therefore the broadest part 
of the term. But because this creates an unfettered ability to reduce the interest rate payable, 
I dont consider this clause creates a significant imbalance to the detriment of the consumer 
contrary to the requirements of good faith  because while there are no restrictions on the 
lenders power to reduce the interest rate, doing so is in the consumers favour and the 
absence of restrictions increases the circumstances in which Mr K might benefit from a 
reduction in his interest rate. But I consider the way the term is exercised could potentially 
lead to unfairness in individual cases.
Section 7.2 contains the following provisions, allowing the lender to increase the SVR:
there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
trend to increase interest rates on mortgages generally or mortgages similar to yours
for good commercial reasons, we need to fund an increase in the interest rates we 
pay to our own funders
we wish to adjust our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent level of 
profitability 
there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
increase in the risk of shortfalls on the accounts of mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only), or mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only) whose accounts are similar to yours
I think theres a real possibility a court might find that some of these clauses are not 
sufficiently transparent such that an informed consumer would have agreed to them in a 
hypothetical individual negotiation. They give the lender a broad discretion, and may enable 
it to take into account possibly irrelevant factors  for example, a general increase in shortfall 
risk on mortgage accounts owned by other lenders in respect of borrowers not similar to this 
borrower, or general trends in the market that arent relevant to the lenders own costs. Im 
not persuaded such a consumer would necessarily be able to understand the mechanism for 
any decision taken in reliance on these clauses, or be able to understand the economic 
consequences of agreeing to them. Nor would such a customer be able easily to challenge 
an increase made in reliance on them.
Ive said theres a legitimate purpose in variable reversion rates, such as an SVR, in allowing 
a lender to vary the price of the agreement to reflect changes in its costs, credit risk, and 
other factors. But these clauses seem to me to be wider than reasonably necessary to 
achieve that purpose. And they do not explain to the consumer the method for determining 
the new price. Good commercial reasons and prudent level of profitability are vague and 
unclear, and it is not immediately apparent why shortfalls on dissimilar mortgages owned by 
other lenders are relevant to this lenders risk position.
For those reasons, while a term enabling the lenders to increase the SVR to reflect 
increases in cost of funds or other legitimate factors would in principle be a fair term, I think 
parts of section 7.2 specifically go beyond what national law would imply into a contract such 
as this. I think theres a real possibility a court would find that this section causes a 
significant imbalance between the parties and that its unlikely a hypothetical consumer 
would have agreed to a term that allowed the lender such a broad and undefined discretion 
to increase the SVR.
I have also considered whether  at the time the contract was taken out  there were likely to be such significant barriers to Mr K dissolving the contract that he could not effectively make 
use of the right to do so. That is something I need to consider both for the sake of deciding 
whether the term may be on the grey list in Schedule 2 of the UTCCR that may be regarded 
as being unfair, as well as part of the wider analysis of whether the term creates a significant 
imbalance contrary to the requirement of good faith. If there were such barriers, that may 
mean that the variation terms are unfair.
I have reminded myself that  in assessing whether the term itself is unfair - the test is not 
whether there were significant practical barriers for Mr K at the point at which the SVR was 
varied, but rather whether it was foreseeable at the time the contract was entered into that 
there may have been such barriers.
There was no early repayment charge (ERC) applicable to Mr Ks mortgage whilst he was on 
the SVR. So when NRAM and Whistletree exercised their rights to vary the SVR after 
February 2012, if Mr K was unhappy with that decision, he was free under the contract to 
transfer the mortgage to another lender if he wished without having to pay a charge to end 
the existing contract with either lender. And similarly he was free to do so if he was unhappy 
with the level of the SVR at the point of reversion because of variations up to that point.
Mr Ks representative has said that in practice Mr K wasnt free to exit the agreement. This is 
because of the costs associated with ending this mortgage and taking out another. Im not 
persuaded by this. There is a relatively small exit fee, payable whenever the mortgage 
comes to an end to cover the lenders administrative costs. But I dont consider this amounts 
to a significant barrier. And I dont think the costs another lender might apply to an 
application Mr K might make are the sort of costs to be considered here either. These costs 
are not set by Northern Rock or its successors and are part of any mortgage application.
However, Mr K had an unsecured loan stapled to the mortgage. If he moved his mortgage 
elsewhere, the interest rate on the unsecured loan would increase to 8% above the SVR. 
Although in Mr Ks particular case the unsecured loan was relatively small  around £7,000 
at the start, reducing over time  that is in the context of a low property value and high loan 
to value on the mortgage itself. Mr K borrowed £80,000 on the mortgage, with a property 
purchase price of £88,000. The mortgage was therefore at 91% loan to value, and factoring 
in the unsecured loan he borrowed 99% of the propertys purchase price. Given that, I think 
the unsecured loan may have represented a real and practical barrier to Mr K dissolving the 
mortgage contract.
My conclusion on the fairness of the term
Having considered the relevant regulations and caselaw, I think theres a real possibility a 
court would find that elements of section 7.2 are unfair. They lack transparency, appear to 
go beyond what is reasonably necessary, and there was a real risk (foreseeable at the time 
the contract was taken out) that Mr K may not realistically have been able to exit the 
agreement.
As a matter of law, the effect of a term being unfair is that it wouldnt apply. Mr Ks 
representative says that this is an unfair term, and that it should be replaced with a term 
requiring a reasonable rate pursuant to s15 of the Supply of Goods and Services Act.
But I am required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In doing so I must take into account  but need not be 
constrained by  the relevant law. The presence of a potentially unfair term doesnt 
necessarily mean that there has been actual unfairness such that I should uphold the 
complaint. In order to decide that, I need to consider not just the fairness of the term, but 
also whether it was exercised in a way that resulted in unfairness in the period I can consider.
So while I have taken account of the relevant law, Ive also thought more broadly about 
whether the way the term has been used has resulted in Mr K being treated in a way that 
was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It is that question I will focus on next  
considering first the times when the successive lenders relied on the variation term, and then 
the separate question of whether Whistletree should have (but did not) reduced the SVR to 
align with TSBs SVR on acquisition of Mr Ks loan.
Did Northern Rock and NRAM exercise the variation term fairly?
I remind myself that the only part of this complaint I can consider is the fairness of interest 
charged to Mr K since 10 March 2014. The complaint about interest charged before that date 
 including any decisions to vary the interest rate  is out of time for the reasons given 
above.
However, those decisions are important context for the period I can consider. Thats 
because the level of the SVR during the period I can consider is the product not only of 
decisions to vary it during that period, but earlier decisions in the out of time period. To that 
extent, those earlier decisions are important context for the period I am considering, and 
form part of all the circumstances of the case that I am required by our rules to consider 
when determining the part of the complaint that is in time. Im satisfied that this approach is 
required of me by our rules, and is compatible with a recent decision of the High Court1 on 
this question.
It's clear that each time NRAM made a decision to vary the SVR, the SVR remained at that 
level until the next time it decided to vary the SVR. And in turn NRAMs decisions led to the 
SVR Whistletree applied at transfer, until it later varied the SVR (whether it was fair for 
Whistletree to do that is also part of this complaint, and something Ill consider below  for 
now, I merely note that this was as a matter of fact what happened).
This means that the SVR as it was on 10 March 2014, at the start of the period I can 
consider, was the sum of the parts of what went before. And therefore if any of those 
earlier decisions were made for reasons not permitted by the terms of the mortgage 
agreement, or in reliance on a potentially unfair term, that might mean that it was unfair for 
them to be relied on as contributing to the level of the SVR (and therefore the interest 
charged to Mr K) during the period I can consider.
With that in mind, Ive carefully considered all the evidence about NRAMs decisions to vary 
the SVR in the period leading up to March 2014.
As Ive set out above, there were no variations after Mr K reverted to the discounted SVR 
rate in February 2012 while the loan remained with NRAM. All the variations to the SVR after 
the mortgage was taken out were while Mr K was on a fixed rate, and therefore they did not 
directly affect what he was required to pay. And all those variations reduced the SVR, so that 
at the time Mr K reverted to the discounted SVR rate, that rate was substantially less than 
the illustration contained in the mortgage offer.
Ive already explained that the SVR was not a tracker rate, linked to the Bank of England 
base rate. NRAM was under no obligation to reduce the SVR at the same time and to the 
same extent as base rate reduced  and, as Ive said, nothing in the mortgage documents 
could have given Mr K a reasonable expectation that it would do so.
1 Mortgage Agency Services Number Five Limited, R (On the Application Of) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service Limited [2022] EWHC 1979 (Admin)However, Mr Ks representative points out that while the SVR reduced, it did not reduce to 
the same extent as base rate  such that the margin between base rate and the SVR 
increased from 2.09% to 4.29% while Mr K was on his fixed rate. And this in turn meant that 
instead of reverting to a discounted SVR rate 2.08% above base rate, Mr K reverted to a 
discounted SVR rate 4.28% above base rate.
And while Ive said that there is a real possibility that a court might find the specific SVR 
variation term in Northern Rocks General Conditions Edition 3 to be an unfair term as 
drafted, I dont think that a term allowing a mortgage lender to vary (including to reduce) its 
SVR is unfair in principle. I think the relevant question is therefore whether NRAM exercised 
its powers to reduce the SVR fairly.
We have received evidence about how the SVR was reviewed over time, and the decisions 
Northern Rock and NRAM took from time to time to reduce it, as well as evidence about 
NRAMs broader circumstances and commercial strategy at the time which form the context 
in which it took those decisions. DISP 3.5.9 R (2) permits me to receive information in 
confidence where appropriate, such that only an edited version, summary or description is 
disclosed to the other party. In this case, I consider that to be appropriate and so we have 
not shared that evidence with Mr K or his representatives. But I will summarise it in this part 
of my decision.
The relevant period is from late 2007 to early 2009, when the Bank of England base rate fell 
sharply, and to record lows, during the global financial crisis. At the same time, the UK 
mortgage market was going through a period of significant change and upheaval. The 
funding model of mortgage lenders changed at this time, as did the prudential and regulatory 
requirements imposed on them. There were many factors at play influencing the costs faced 
by mortgage lenders, not directly linked to base rate. For example, the Bank of England has 
said:2
Prior to the 200708 financial crisis, bank funding costs largely moved in line with 
risk-free interest rates set by central banks, such as Bank Rate in the United 
Kingdom  the rate paid on reserves held by commercial banks at the Bank of 
England. In this environment, movements in risk-free rates provided a reasonably 
good guide to assessing both the transmission of monetary policy and changes in the 
profitability of banks. All of this changed with the onset of the financial crisis, 
however. Some sources of funding evaporated rapidly. And measures of bank 
funding costs rose sharply relative to risk-free rates. There was a sharp increase in a 
range of funding spreads  the difference between funding costs and the risk-free 
rate  during the period from 2007 to 2011. This range has since fallen back 
somewhat but remains higher than in the period prior to the crisis.
The evidence Ive seen shows that Northern Rocks mortgage lending business was largely 
funded by wholesale funding, the cost of which was defined by reference to LIBOR rather 
than base rate. Before the financial crisis, LIBOR generally followed base rate  and so 
changes to LIBOR tended to take place broadly in line with changes to base rate, and so 
changes to base rate tended to be reflected in changes to cost of funding. And the same 
was largely true of Northern Rocks retail funding streams, which also contributed to its 
mortgage lending business.
However, during the financial crisis, there was an increasing disconnect between base rate 
and LIBOR  with the result that reductions in base rate were not matched by reductions to 
2 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England - 
https://www.bankofengland.co.uk//media/boe/files/quarterly-bulletin/2014/bank-funding-costs-what-
are-they-what-determines-them-and-why-do-they-matter.pdf the same extent in LIBOR or cost of funding. Access to wholesale funding became harder 
and more expensive as wholesale funders became more concerned by risk of default  
meaning that where funding was available, margins over LIBOR increased even as LIBOR 
itself decreased. At this time Northern Rocks credit rating was impaired, and it became 
increasingly difficult for it to raise and service its wholesale funding. At the same time, it saw 
a substantial reduction in the retail deposits it held as customers moved elsewhere.
Northern Rock received a government loan in September 2017 to try to avert its collapse. 
There were conditions attached to the loan which impacted Northern Rocks wider strategy 
and cost of funds. Then in February 2008, Northern Rock was nationalised and restructured. 
Following the nationalisation, as part of state aid rules, there were limits placed on the size 
and scope of the business. Assets  such as parts of its loan book  perceived to be higher 
quality (in risk and prudential terms) were transferred to the private sector and those 
perceived to be lower quality retained in the nationalised vehicle that became NRAM. This 
process increased the overall credit risk of the retained book  which also impacted cost of 
funding.
NRAM took on liability for repaying the government loan. It was under an obligation to repay 
the loan as quickly as possible. But this doesnt mean that the commercial imperative to do 
so meant that NRAM unfairly exploited its customers  that there was profiteering.
As with any lender, NRAM was required to balance the needs of servicing its funding 
streams with the interests of its customers. During this period, it reduced its SVR on several 
occasions. Although it didnt reduce the SVR to the same extent that base rate reduced, Ive 
explained that its costs were not directly linked to, and increasingly separate from, base rate 
at this time. Ive not seen any evidence that the reductions it made to the SVR were arbitrary 
or unfair, or led to an excessive SVR being charged. While NRAMs SVR was at the higher 
end of mortgage SVRs across the industry at this time, it was not an outlier. Many lenders 
charged lower SVRs  but many lenders charged higher SVRs, including mainstream 
lenders. While rates charged by other lenders did not directly impact NRAMs own cost of 
funding, that comparison does show that similar pressures were faced across the industry 
and led  in terms of overall SVR levels  to similar results. And that is a relevant factor for 
me to consider in thinking about whether NRAM acted fairly.
Mr Ks representatives have provided a third party academic report on the wider mortgage 
industry. Ive taken that report into account. But Im not persuaded by it. The report doesnt 
focus on Northern Rock and then NRAMs specific circumstances, and doesnt consider 
possible reasons for increased margins over LIBOR in costs of funding of the sort that Im 
satisfied were faced at the time. I think the report is of limited value in considering the 
specific circumstances of this complaint.
Taking all that into account, I am not persuaded that Northern Rock and then NRAM 
operated the SVR variation clauses in an unfair way when setting and varying the interest 
rate applied to Mr Ks mortgage. Even if a court were to find that the relevant terms were 
unfair pursuant to UTCCR, Im not persuaded that the exercise of those terms by Northern 
Rock and then NRAM resulted in an unfair SVR payable (subject to the discount) by Mr K 
from 10 March 2014 until the date of transfer to Whistletree. And so I dont uphold this part of 
the complaint.
Did Whistletree act fairly and reasonably in setting the interest rate on transfer and 
thereafter?
Ive said that Im satisfied that the interest rate charged by NRAM between March 2014 and 
the transfer to Whistletree in 2016 was a fair rate. So now I need to consider whether, 
following the transfer, it continued to be a fair rate. In addressing this part of the complaint, I think there are two key questions:
Should, acting fairly, Whistletree have reduced the SVR to align with the TSB SVR 
on transfer or thereafter?
Has Whistletree acted fairly and reasonably in varying the SVR when it did?
I will deal with each of those questions in turn.
The SVR on transfer and alignment with the TSB SVR
Mr Ks representative says that on acquiring his mortgage, TSB Bank plc ought to have 
reduced the SVR so that it was no more than the TSB SVR. This could have been done 
either by moving Mr K onto the TSB SVR, or by reducing the Whistletree SVR to the same 
level as the TSB SVR.
Ive reminded myself of Mr Ks representatives arguments, which are in summary:
At this time interest rates were not increasing, there was no government loan owed 
by Whistletree, and the factors relating to the global financial crisis were long in the 
past.
Clause 7 of Northern Rocks general mortgage conditions, which the investigator 
cited, cannot be relevant. Those terms were only ever intended to relate to Northern 
Rock, and therefore ceased to have any contractual application or practical 
relevance following the transfer of the mortgage.
As is clear from the TSB SVR, the way TSB Bank plc  including Whistletree  
operated was very different from Northern Rock and NRAM. And so even if the SVR 
was set according to the need for a prudent level of profitability or for good 
commercial reasons, the Whistletree SVR should have been set at the same level 
as the TSB SVR.
The focus should therefore not just be on the SVR variations carried out by Northern 
Rock and NRAM  but also on Whistletrees failure to vary the SVR. There was no 
justification for continuing to maintain the SVR at a margin of 4.29% above base rate 
when the reasons for setting it at that margin no longer applied by virtue of the 
transfer to Whistletree.
In those circumstances, in maintaining the SVR at such a high level Whistletree was 
acting in breach of express and implied terms of the mortgage contract. And this did 
not result in fair treatment of Mr K.
Ive explained above why I dont agree that Northern Rocks General Conditions are no 
longer relevant. Notwithstanding the transfers to NRAM and then Whistletree, they remain 
part of the mortgage contract and both parties remain subject to them.
Section 1.2 of the conditions defines the SVR:
 such rate as we from time to time decide to set as the base from which to 
calculate Interest on our variable rate mortgage loans (disregarding the restrictions 
on what we can charge under condition 7 or the Offer). The current Standard 
Variable Rate which applies to your Loan is set out in the Offer. We may change this rate from time to time under condition 7 or the Offer. If we transfer or dispose of the 
Offer, the person to whom we make the transfer may change the rate to its own base 
rate which it applies to its variable rate mortgage loans. That rate will then be the 
Standard Variable Rate under the Offer and the person to whom we make the 
transfer may make further changes under condition 7 or the Offer.
Section 19 says
19.1 We may transfer or change or otherwise dispose of the Offer or any of our rights 
under the offer (including the right to set the Interest Rate) to any person at any time 
at law or in equity without your consent. Where we transfer to any person the right to 
set the Interest Rate, that person may set the interest charged under the Offer by 
reference to that persons own (or one of its own) standard variable rates. 
It's therefore clear from both these parts of the terms and conditions that on transfer, 
Whistletree had the power to set the SVR. Section 1.2 says that a transferee may change 
the rate to its own base rate which it applies to its variable rate mortgage loans. That rate will 
then be the Standard Variable Rate. And section 19 says a transferee may set the interest 
charged under the Offer by reference to that persons own (or one of its own) standard 
variable rates.
Using these conditions, Whistletree could have replaced the NRAM SVR with its own SVR  
including the TSB SVR (or other TSB reversion rate). However, its also clear that 
Whistletree was not obliged to do so. This is a discretionary power  that person may, not 
must  and so equally Whistletree could have chosen to retain the SVR at the same level as 
the NRAM SVR.
Nor is there any obligation in section 7 of the general conditions  the SVR variation clause  
to vary or review the SVR at any particular time, whether on transfer or otherwise. This 
section also empowers but does not require Whistletree to act.
On acquiring Mr Ks mortgage, TSB Bank plc could have set the interest rate by reference to 
one of its own rates (such as the TSB SVR)  but equally, under the terms of the contract at 
least, it was not required to do so. There is no express term compelling it to review the SVR 
or harmonise it with the TSB SVR, and I dont think there is any basis for implying such a 
term.
Mr Ks representative also suggests that Whistletree had a Braganza duty  a duty to 
exercise its discretion around setting the SVR in a way that is not arbitrary, capricious, 
perverse, or irrational. To the extent that such a duty does apply as a matter of law (on which 
I make no definite finding), it would in my view not add anything to the broader question of 
whether Whistletree acted fairly, which Ill go on to consider next.
Im therefore satisfied that by choosing to create an SVR for the Whistletree book (including 
Mr Ks mortgage) rather than transfer Mr Ks mortgage to the TSB SVR, and by maintaining 
that SVR at the level inherited from NRAM, TSB Bank plc was not acting in breach of the 
mortgage terms and conditions.
But I also need to consider whether it acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. In 
considering that, I bear in mind that even if TSB Bank plc (trading as Whistletree) acted 
lawfully in line with the terms and conditions  and relevant law is a matter for me to take into 
account  I must also take into account wider factors, including the regulators rules and 
principles for business. Principle 6 obliges a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. Ive taken that into account too.Whistletree has explained that it didnt harmonise the SVR with the TSB SVR. Its said that 
on acquisition it maintained Mr Ks mortgage on its existing terms and conditions, including 
the interest rate, so that his mortgage simply continued as it was before. This is standard 
practice for a mortgage acquisition, and its neither unusual nor inherently unfair for a firm to 
have separate books with separate interest rates.
In thinking about whether this was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
particular case, Ive noted that while earlier parts of my decision focused on Northern Rock 
and NRAMs costs of funds, cost of raising and servicing funds lent to customers is only one 
factor that a lender may choose to take account of in setting an SVR.
Whistletree has explained that TSB Bank plc doesnt fund the TSB and Whistletree books 
separately. But there are other increased costs associated with the Whistletree book beyond 
the cost of raising the funds lent. As well as the costs of the third party administrator that 
manages the Whistletree book, TSB Bank plc is required by the terms of its prudential 
regulation to hold proportionately more capital in respect of its Whistletree mortgages than 
its TSB mortgages. That increased capital requirement means the Whistletree mortgages 
cost more.
Whistletree has also shown that, in general, Whistletree mortgages have a higher credit and 
default risk than TSB mortgages. The precise figures are commercially confidential and so I 
have received them in confidence, as permitted by DISP 3.5.9 R (2). But in general, Im 
satisfied that the Whistletree mortgage book:
has a higher average loan to value, and a higher proportion of borrowers with high 
loan to value and negative equity;
has a higher proportion of interest only borrowers;
has a higher proportion of borrowers who are or have been in arrears;
has a higher rate of repossession.
In my experience, its standard practice for lenders to include an element of pricing for risk in 
setting interest rates. In general, the higher the credit risk or default risk of a group of loans 
or mortgages, the higher the interest rate will be. A higher risk book tends to be more 
expensive to fund  wholesale funders and others applying a higher premium. And if 
proportionately more customers are likely to fall into arrears or default, more interest needs 
to be charged to the remaining customers to generate the same level of income.
Therefore, I think that if TSB Bank plc did separate out the costs of funding the TSB and 
Whistletree books, its likely that, as a higher risk book and one requiring proportionately 
more capital to be held to meet prudential requirements, the Whistletree books costs would 
be higher than the TSB books. And for the same reasons, Im satisfied that even though the 
costs of funding are not accounted for separately, its likely the Whistletree book contributes 
more to the overall cost of funding TSB Bank plcs mortgage business than the proportion of 
that business it represents. Im also satisfied that the Whistletree book presents a higher 
credit risk and default risk, which is a reasonable factor to take into account in setting an 
interest rate (and which is one of the factors included in the SVR variation clause). For all 
those reasons, there are legitimate grounds for TSB Bank plc to have set the Whistletree 
SVR at a level higher than the TSB SVR.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is not a price regulator. It is not within my remit to set 
Whistletrees SVR for it, or to decide whether in isolation the SVR represents a fair price. But 
it is within my remit to decide whether it was fair and reasonable for Whistletree to charge Mr K an interest rate dependent on setting its SVR at the level inherited from NRAM rather 
than an interest rate based on either the TSB SVR directly or the harmonisation of the 
Whistletree SVR with the TSB SVR.
Having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied that while Whistletree had the contractual 
power to revise the SVR and / or set it afresh at the time of the transfer, there was no 
obligation for it to do so. Equally, it had the power to maintain it at the same level as that 
charged by NRAM.
Ive already noted that the NRAM SVR around this time was towards the upper end of  but 
not an outlier to  the range of SVRs charged by mainstream lenders around this time, and it 
follows that was the case for the Whistletree SVR post-transfer as well.
Whistletree was required to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. This does not mean that its customers interests are the only relevant factor, but they 
must weigh in the balance and customers  including Mr K  must be treated fairly.
While Whistletree did not reduce the SVR on transfer, Ive found there were good reasons 
why a higher SVR than the TSB SVR was justified. These included distinct factors 
associated with the Whistletree book, and Ive not seen any evidence that the Whistletree 
SVR was set illegitimately or to profiteer.
I note that the Whistletree SVR was set at the same level as the NRAM SVR, and therefore 
Whistletree did not increase the amount Mr K paid as a result of the transfer  instead 
continuing the mortgage on the same terms with the same payments, terms which were not 
disproportionate compared to other SVRs in the mortgage industry at that time, and which 
meant that the transfer had no detrimental impact on Mr K.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that in setting its SVR at the level it did post-transfer, 
Whistletree did not treat Mr K unfairly or unreasonably.
Variations of the Whistletree SVR following the transfer
Since the acquisition of Mr Ks mortgage by Whistletree in 2016, the only variations to the 
SVR have been at the same time, and by the same amount, as changes to Bank of England 
base rate.
Whistletree continued to rely on section 7 of Northern Rocks General Conditions to vary the 
SVR. My previous findings on the fairness of that term and the fairness of relying on it 
therefore also apply to this section of the complaint.
TSB Bank plcs mortgage funding  including the Whistletree book  is largely funded by 
reference to LIBOR (later replaced by SONIA). Although LIBOR (and SONIA) are not the 
same as base rate, to a large extent the dislocation between LIBOR and base rate seen 
during the global financial crisis no longer applies. In broad terms, changes to LIBOR (and 
SONIA) reflect changes in base rate. Its fair and reasonable for Whistletree to vary the SVR 
to reflect changes in its underlying cost of funding. And Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for Whistletree to vary the SVR in the way, and at the times and for the amounts, 
that it did.
Conclusion
For all the reasons Ive set out above, my conclusions on this complaint are that:
Notwithstanding the later transfers of the mortgage, the mortgage remains governed (as it has been throughout) by the terms of the offer given to Mr K and by Northern 
Rocks General Conditions Edition 3.
It was not unfair for NRAM to charge Mr K, from 10 March 2014, an interest rate 
calculated by discounting 0.01% from the NRAM SVR as it was at that time and 
taking into account the history which led up to that point.
It was not unfair for Whistletree to charge Mr K an interest rate calculated by 
discounting 0.01% from the Whistletree SVR, based in turn on the NRAM SVR as it 
was at the date of the transfer.
It was not unfair for Whistletree to charge Mr K an interest rate calculated by 
discounting 0.01% from the Whistletree SVR, varied from time to time as it was 
between 2016 and 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman