DRN-3480793
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
What Mrs W says
Mrs W provided some details, including her sort code and account number, and paid for a 
Covid passport in response to a phishing text scam she thought was from the NHS. Soon 
after she received a call from a man who said he was from Lloyds security team who 
instructed her to move money to a safe account. Mrs W was told that there was an ongoing 
fraud investigation in relation to employee fraud at a different branch of Lloyds. Although Mrs 
W didnt know at the time, the caller was a scammer. 
The scammer persuaded Mrs W he was genuine because he sent her some text messages 
to her during the conversation, sounded professional and had an understanding of Lloyds 
procedures. He also knew some personal details including Mrs Ws account number (which 
shed provided in response to the earlier phishing email) and the fact shed paid for a Covid 
passport. The scammer explained to Mrs W that shed been scammed into paying for a 
Covid passport.  
Mrs W made the following payments to the scammer:
Date Amount Payee Payment reason Payment 
method
29/10/21 £24,758.29 1 Invoice Online
29/10/21 £9,500 1 Attempted payment - 
invoiceOnline and 
then call
30/10/21 £24,500 1 Building work Telephone
30/10/21 £10,000 2 Electrical work Online
Total £59,258.29
Total loss (after 50% 
refund of third and 
fourth payments and 
amount recovered£41,556.90
Mrs W selected paying an invoice as the payment reason when she made payments online. 
Most of the payments were flagged by Lloyds security systems and so Lloyds spoke to Mrs 
W about them.  She has explained that during these calls the scammer was on the line and 
told her what to say. 
When the scammer didnt call Mrs W back to explain how her money would be returned as 
hed promised, she called Lloyds and asked to speak to him. During this call Mrs W was told 
shed been the victim of a scam. 
Lloyds contacted the two banks that received Mrs Ws funds but was only able to recover a 
total of £451.39  which has been credited to Mrs Ws account. It agreed to refund 50% of 
the second and third payments only. It said the first payment wasnt unusual and so wasnt 
flagged. Lloyds blocked the second payment and completed checks but Mrs W gave a 
persuasive cover story about paying a builder, meaning that the warning it gave was geared 
to this payment reason. Lloyds also flagged the third payment and spoke to Mrs W, but she 
gave a cover story about paying an electrician for a complete rewire and other work.
Lloyds also referred to a call Mrs W made to it in December 2020 when she said shed given 
out personal details in response to a text. During the call Lloyds gave Mrs W general scam 
advice including not to click on links and to put the phone down if she received a call asking 
her to move money to a different account. 
Mrs W was unhappy with Lloyds response and brought a complaint to this service.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mrs Ws complaint recommended that it be upheld in full. 
She said the warnings Lloyds provided to Mrs W at the time she made the payments (and in 
the call in December 2020) werent effective under the CRM Code. The investigator also 
said Mrs W had a reasonable basis for believing Lloyds asked her to move her money to a 
safe account. She said this for a number of reasons including the fact the caller knew Mrs W 
had bought a Covid passport, although it was unclear if Mrs W went through a verification 
process its likely the scammer knew a lot of information about her from the previous 
phishing scam and also that the scammer built trust over time. The investigator noted there 
were some concerning factors like the fact Mrs W was told to pay two random people, and 
some funds were left in her account overnight. But on balance the investigator felt Mrs W 
was under a lot of pressure to keep her money safe.
In its response to the investigators view Lloyds agreed to refund 50% of all the transactions 
Mrs W made on the basis its warnings didnt go far enough. But Lloyds maintained that Mrs 
W didnt meet the standard required of her under the CRM Code. I have summarised Lloyds 
key reasons below:
- The original phishing scam was well publicised and it wasnt reasonable for Mrs W to 
think she needed to make a payment for a Covid passport.
- Mrs W contacted Lloyds in December 2020 as she thought she might be the victim of 
a scam after a phishing scam, so its surprising the call from the scammer in this 
case didnt cause her concern. In December 2020 Mrs W was told to put the phone 
down if she was asked to move her money.
- When Mrs W received the call to say her account was at risk she took no steps to 
verify what shed been told. The scammer only knew information Mrs W provided in 
response to the phishing scam. 
- Mrs W didnt have any information about where her funds were going or how her 
funds would be returned. 
- Although the investigator said Mrs W was under pressure to transfer her funds this 
wasnt the case. Funds were left in her Lloyds account overnight, so Mrs W had the 
opportunity to consider what the scammer told her and complete some checks.  
- The scammer claimed to be from Mrs Ws bank but was unable to protect some of 
her funds overnight which should have caused Mrs W concern. 
- There were enough red flags to prompt Mrs W to be honest with Lloyds in the 
conversations she had with it when she was contacted by the genuine fraud team. Mrs W should have had concerns about being asked to pay funds to a third party 
when her genuine bank was telling her payments couldnt be processed because of 
concerns about them. 
- Finally, Lloyds questioned the investigators finding that it had the opportunity to 
identify the scam sooner. It said Mrs W misled Lloyds and what she said was 
believable. 
The complaint was brought to me to consider. I issued my provisional decision on 10 August 
2022 and recommended that Lloyds reimburse 50% of Mrs Ws loss plus interest. In the 
What Ive provisionally decided and why section I said,
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Barclays should have reimbursed Mrs W under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether 
it ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mrs W was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for her to receive a full refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places 
a level of care on Mrs W too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Like the investigator, I dont consider the warnings Lloyds gave Mrs W were effective under 
the CRM Code. I dont need to go into any detail though, as Lloyds has now offered to 
refund 50% of all the payments Mrs W made which is what Id award. 
Did Mrs W have a reasonable basis for believing what the scammer told her? 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mrs 
W and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Lloyds has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mrs W made are enough to support its position that she failed 
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I dont 
think she had a reasonable basis for believing the person she transacted with was 
legitimate.
Mrs W hasnt agreed to discuss what happened and what she thought at the time with the 
investigator, so Ive had to base my decision on the written evidence available. As Im 
sending a provisional decision Mrs W has the opportunity to correct me if Ive misinterpreted 
anything. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive taken the following into account: 
-Although it seems Mrs W received a call from a spoofed number she didnt check this 
at the time, so it didnt influence her decision to trust the caller. -Its hard to see how an investigation into another branch of Lloyds meant Mrs Ws 
funds were at risk and needed to be moved to a safe account. I consider Mrs W 
should have had concerns about how plausible the scammers story was and taken 
additional steps before making the payments. 
-Mrs W paid two individuals, neither of whom had accounts with Lloyds. I believe this 
should reasonably have been a red flag that something wasnt right. Ive not seen 
any evidence to suggest Mrs W questioned this and was given a plausible 
explanation for it. 
-Mrs W thought an agent of Lloyds told her she needed to transfer funds to a safe 
account. But she didnt question why daily transfer limits couldnt be overridden by 
the bank meaning she needed to make transfers over two days to the safe account. 
-Mrs W moved her funds because she believed they were at risk. But not all of her 
funds were moved on the day the scammer first contacted her, meaning that nearly 
£38,000 was still at risk until the following day. I consider this should reasonably have 
caused Mrs W concern and led her to take additional steps to verify what shed been 
told before making further payments. By the time she made the transfers on 30 
October 2021, Mrs W had time to reflect on what shed been told and verify the 
information.
-Even after the transfers were made on 30 October 2021 Mrs Ws Lloyds account still 
had a balance of over £3,000. If her funds were at risk, then this balance would also 
be at risk. This is another factor that ought reasonably to have concerned Mrs W and 
led her to question what shed been told. 
-The only information Mrs W had about the return of her funds was that the caller 
would call back to discuss this. 
-Although the warning provided to Mrs W in December 2020 wasnt effective under 
the CRM Code as it was given around ten months before the scam, it is relevant to 
Mrs Ws reasonable basis for belief. During the call Mrs W was advised, 
The exact same thing applies if you receive any phone call asking you to move 
money to a different account to protect your money. Simply dont do it. Put the phone 
down and dont disclose any information whatsoever.
So Mrs W was given advice about the same circumstances and so I think it would be 
reasonable for her to be suspicious about what the scammer told her in October 
2021.  
-I appreciate that Mrs W thought that her funds were at risk, but I believe she should 
reasonably have had concerns about why she was repeatedly told to lie to Lloyds 
fraud department and why the scammer needed to be on the line during her calls 
with the real Lloyds. 
The text messages Mrs W received from the scammer (but that she thought were from the 
individual she was speaking to in Lloyds fraud department) didnt say Lloyds at the top in 
the usual way. Instead, the text messages showed the telephone number of the caller. But I 
can understand why Mrs W didnt notice this, at least to begin with. 
Its important to note that its the combination of the factors I have listed above that have led 
me to the conclusion that Mrs W didnt meet the standard required of her by the CRM Code 
to receive a full refund. 
This means that Lloyds isnt responsible for the remaining 50% of Mrs Ws loss under the 
CRM Code.Could Lloyds have done more to protect Mrs W
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
I agree with the investigator that the first payment Mrs W made (for £24,758.29) was unusual 
and out of character and so Lloyds should have had a conversation with Mrs W about it. The 
conversation should have covered things like the reason for the payment. On balance I think 
that had Lloyds asked this question Mrs W would have given the response she gave when 
asked the reason for the next payment  that it was for building work. Given this, Id have 
expected Lloyds to go on to ask whether the work was satisfactorily completed and how Mrs 
W received the payment details (as there are a number of potential scams in respect of 
building work). 
Whilst I cant say exactly how the conversation would have gone, I consider it would have 
been very similar to the subsequent conversation Lloyds had with Mrs W about the next 
payment. In this call Mrs W gave confident answers about the reason for the payment and 
the extent of the work that was being completed. In the circumstances, I think its fair to say 
she would have given similar answers if Lloyds had questioned her about this first payment. I 
dont think there would have been anything concerning to Lloyds and Im persuaded that the 
payment would have been made.
I think the situation was different when Mrs W made the second payment though. Mrs W 
wanted to pay a further significant sum to the same builder, meaning that over two days 
shed be paying him almost £50,000. She had tried to make a £9,500 payment the previous 
day but had been unable to do so because of daily limits and was now asking to pay a much 
greater amount. The transaction roughly halved her balance and Mrs W wasnt able to 
provide a clear answer in response to a question about the total invoice she received. The 
Lloyds advisor also asked Mrs W a series of closed questions which required yes/no 
answers meaning that she lost the opportunity to probe Mrs W and get to the bottom of what 
was going on. For example, the advisor asked,
You havent been advised by anybody to lie to us about the reasons for your transfer, no?
Lloyds will be aware that it is common for scammers to provide victims with cover stories 
with varying degrees of detail and so the answers they are given cant always be accepted at 
face value. 
But Im persuaded that even if Lloyds didnt go far enough Mrs W shouldnt receive any more 
than 50% of all transactions, which Lloyds has already offered. I say this because any award 
should be reduced by 50% to reflect Mrs Ws contribution to her loss (for similar reasons to 
those set out above in respect of Mrs Ws reasonable basis for belief). This means that the 
offer Lloyds has made to Mrs W already exceeds any award I would make because I think 
Lloyds could have prevented the scam sooner (as Lloyds has agreed to refund 50% of the 
first payment but I dont believe Lloyds should have prevented this payment from being 
made). 
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mrs W 
didnt agree with my provisional findings. I have summarised the main points below:
- There has been a large rise in the number of APP scams and huge sums have been 
lost. The CRM Code is ineffective, and banks should have more impactful policies 
and procedures in place to combat fraud.- There is a significant imbalance in scam experience between banks and their 
customers, but banks focus on blaming customers. 
- Lloyds ask customers to give away personal details when they call. Mrs W asked me 
to listen to a call her husband took on her behalf in which Lloyds asked for such 
details.
- Scammers are skilled at creating panic and placing victims under stress by making 
them feel their money isnt safe. They are very knowledgeable about banking 
processes and procedures. In the circumstances, its not possible to think 
reasonably. 
- My provisional decision fails to take into account the fact that on a good day a 
customer may put the phone down but when there are other things going on in the 
background relating to things like bereavements, financial or relationship difficulties 
the response might be different. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
After careful consideration Ive reached the same outcome I set out in my provisional 
decision (and reproduced above) and for the same reasons. 
I appreciate Mrs W has been the victim of a cruel scam and that the scammer was 
persuasive and knowledgeable. I also know my decision will come as a disappointment to 
Mrs W. But taking the overall circumstances into account I dont think she should be 
reimbursed in full, for the reasons already given. 
Mrs W has raised general points about the increase in APP scams, how effective the CRM 
Code is and her belief that banks should have more impactful policies and procedures in 
place. Mrs W has also referred to Lloyds telephone security procedures. I cant comment on 
these general points though. My role is to consider the individual circumstances of Mrs Ws 
case and whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably. As Lloyds is signed up to the CRM 
Code, Ive considered Lloyds responsibilities under it and have also thought about whether 
there are any other reasons why Lloyds should reimburse Mrs W in full. 
I understand Mrs Ws point about a persons propensity to fall victim to a scam varying 
depending on what is going on in their lives at the time. The CRM Code takes this into 
account too. It says that a customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable 
to expect that customer to have protected themselves against that scam at the time it 
happened. Vulnerability is considered on a case by case basis and is dynamic. It takes into 
account things like personal circumstances and the capacity of the customer to protect 
themselves. Where a customer is vulnerable under the CRM Code banks should award a full 
refund without considering whether any exceptions apply under the CRM Code.
Mrs W hasnt suggested in her submissions to this service or when asked by the investigator 
that there were any factors that made her unable to protect herself from the safe account 
scam she fell victim to though. So I dont consider it would be fair to award a full refund on 
this basis. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Mrs Ws loss, Im persuaded that Lloyds should refund half 
of Mrs Ws loss plus interest, as set out below.My final decision
I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
- Refund 50% of Mrs Ws outstanding loss - £11,927.76 (50% of £24,758.29 less 
£451.39 already recovered and returned to Mrs W):
- Pay interest on the above amount at account rate from the date Lloyds made its 
decision under the CRM Code to the date of settlement (less tax if properly 
deductible).
-
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman