DRN-3556144
The complaint
Miss C complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with her claim following a 
car accident. References to AXA include other organisations acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss C had motor insurance underwritten by AXA. Her car was badly damaged in an 
accident and AXA decided it was a total loss as the repairs would have cost more than the 
car was worth. AXA valued the car at £4919 and the estimated repair cost was £5408.01. 
Nonetheless Miss C decided to keep the car. She says AXA told her it would only pay 60% 
of the value of the vehicle for repair costs. Miss C says her partner spoke to her insurance 
broker who said this was only the case for cars less than one year old and AXA should pay 
the value of the car less the excess on the policy.
Miss C says she got a quote from a garage for £3011.25 to send to AXA, which was 60% of 
the cars value. She says she paid the extra £2,500 repair costs herself as she needed to get 
the car back on the road. AXAs engineers authorised the quote and AXA paid the £3011.25 
to the garage. 
AXA then offered Miss C £3738 less the £200 policy excess as a final settlement. Miss C 
said AXA should pay her the value of the car less the excess, i.e. £4719.
Miss C complained to AXA about the amount it had paid on the claim. AXA said when a 
vehicle is involved in an incident it follows one of the two routes - total loss settlement or 
repairing the vehicle. If the vehicle is deemed economical to repair, AXA will instruct its 
repair network to do so. If an estimate is received and the vehicle is beyond economical 
repair, AXA said it will instruct its salvage agents. AXA said its standard business practice 
that if vehicle repairs come to more than 60% of the vehicles valuation, it will deem this 
beyond economical repair.
AXA said due to the estimate from Miss Cs own repairer being less than the 60% marker, its 
engineers agreed to authorise the repairs and cancel the instruction to salvage the vehicle 
via its agent.
Miss C wasnt happy with this and complained to this service. Our investigator upheld her 
complaint. He said AXA had said it would pay either the repair costs or the market value, but 
actually hadnt paid either. The investigator said to put things right AXA should pay Miss C 
the difference between the market value of the car after a reasonable salvage deduction and 
the £3011 already paid. He said AXA should also pay Miss C £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
AXA didnt agree, saying it would either pay for the repairs to a vehicle or write it off. AXA 
said in this case it had paid £3011 for the repairs. 
Miss C didnt agree with the investigators suggestion either, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. Miss C wants the extra £1718 which she says she is owed by AXA. She 
doesnt agree that any amount should be deducted for salvage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
On 25 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
I intend to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
When a vehicle has been damaged an insurer might decide it should be written-off (known 
as a total loss). This might be because of the type of damage to the vehicle or because the 
insurer thinks its uneconomical to repair. Its not unusual for insurers to decide a vehicle is 
uneconomical to repair once the repair costs reach around 60-70% of its pre-accident 
market value. 
Miss Cs insurance policy booklet said:
Loss of or damage to your car or spare parts
If your car, accessories or spare parts are lost, stolen or damaged, we will:
repair the damage;
replace what is lost or damaged and is too expensive to repair; or
pay you the cost of the loss or damage.
Where your car is not recovered following a theft or is beyond economical repair we will 
pay you the market value of your car, including accessories and spare parts at the time they 
are lost, stolen or damaged.
If we settle a claim as a total loss, we will then take ownership of your car.
So the policy said that AXA would either pay repair costs or, if the car was beyond 
economical repair, the market value and keep the car. 
Even though a car might not be economical to repair, it will still have some value, for 
example for parts or scrap. So AXA would pay the market value of the car less any excess to 
the policy holder, and then be able to sell the car as salvage. However Miss C wanted to 
keep the car, so it was fair and reasonable for AXA to deduct the salvage value of the car 
from the market value when it offered her a settlement.
Ive listened to a phone call between Miss C and AXAs salvage agent acting on its behalf. 
The call handler explained they were calling to discuss the engineers report and settlement 
of the claim. The call handler said the car had been valued at £4,919 and there was a policy 
excess of £200. If Miss C wanted to keep the car, the call handler explained AXA would 
deduct salvage and pay her £3738 less £200 excess. Miss Cs partner on her behalf said 
that she didnt dispute the valuation but didnt agree there should be any deduction for 
salvage.
When Miss C sent AXA the estimate for the repairs to her car, her covering email said: 
This work has been arranged to a budget incorrectly set by AXA and will not be a complete repair to make good all damage caused in the accident to a pre-accident standard. We 
believe that the repair limit of 60% of the value of the vehicle is incorrect and we will be 
seeking compensation for the balance owed.
In response it seems that AXA just agreed the £3011.25 on the estimate, and didnt respond 
to or acknowledge Miss Cs assertion that this wasnt actually the full cost of the repairs.
AXA states that in a claim like this it would either pay the market value less excess or the 
repair costs less excess. In Miss Cs case it has done neither. In the phone call, AXA made 
Miss C an offer which it hasnt paid her. I dont think this is fair or reasonable. I think AXA 
needs to do more to settle Miss Cs claim.
Miss C says AXA owes her £1718. She doesnt think that salvage should be deducted from 
the settlement figure. I dont agree. I have to decide whats fair and reasonable overall, and it 
wouldnt be fair for an insurer to lose out as a result of the consumer keeping their car.
Miss C has had to go to a considerable amount of time and inconvenience in trying to obtain 
a fair settlement for her claim. AXA also made a number of errors in dealing with the claim, 
including calling Miss C to arrange to collect the car after shed said she wanted to keep it, 
and offering her a settlement for market value after agreeing the estimate for repairs. I think 
AXA should compensate Miss C for this.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold Miss Cs complaint. I intend to require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss C the market value of the car less the salvage, the excess and 
the amount it has already paid, plus interest. Based on the phone call from AXAs salvage 
agents, this would be £3783 less £200 less £3011.25 plus interest. 
I also intend to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss C £200 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA said it was happy to accept the provisional decision.
Miss Cs partner on her behalf also accepted the provisional decision. 
Having considered things again I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Cs complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
pay Miss C £571.75 plus interest at 8% a year simple from the date the original payment 
was made on this claim to the date of this payment. This is the market value of the car less 
the salvage, the excess and the amount already paid. 
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Miss C has had to go to a considerable amount of time and inconvenience in trying to obtain 
a fair settlement for her claim. AXA Insurance UK Plc also made a number of errors in 
dealing with the claim as set out above. So I also require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Miss C £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman