DRN-1227170
The complaint
Mrs R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her account. She says this caused her 
trouble and upset and she wants HSBC to pay her compensation.
What happened
Mrs R had a current account with HSBC. 
In May 2019, HSBC wrote to Mrs R to let her know that due to her conduct in branch it had 
decided to close her account. HSBC gave them 60 days notice and told them that they 
needed to make alternative banking arrangements.
Mrs R says she has been very upset by HSBCs decision to close her account and that she 
has been put to a great deal of inconvenience trying to sort out a new bank account. She 
has said because of HSBCs actions she had to return to the UK from overseas to try and 
sort out a new bank account and had to stay in a hotel. Mrs R says HSBC should cover the 
costs she incurred for the hotel. Mrs R has explained that she has health problems and that 
HSBCs actions have had a detrimental impact on her health. 
Mrs R has also said that she feels HSBC have discriminated against her on the grounds of 
her religion. And that is the real reason HSBC closed her account. She wants HSBC to pay 
£5,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the closure of her 
account.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs R complaint. She was satisfied HSBC had acted fairly and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Mrs R disagreed. Shes still upset that 
HSBC closed the account. She says HSBC has discriminated against her and treated her 
unfairly. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs R is upset. Im sorry this experience has made her feel unwell. 
And that this has been a stressful situation. I can also appreciate why Mrs R are unhappy 
with HSBCs decision and that the impact this had on them may have been greater due to 
her health problems. But for me to uphold her complaint I have to think the bank has done 
something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. I will explain why. 
HSBC has provided evidence to show that shed decided to close Mrs Rs accounts due to 
her racist and abusive conduct towards staff at a branch on more than one occasion. HSBCs terms and conditions, under section 27, say that they can close an account when 
the customer has acted abusively, offensively or violently towards staff.  Ive looked at the 
information HSBC has provided our service and having done so, Im satisfied that Mrs Rs 
behaviour was abusive at times when she visited a branch. It follows that I think HSBC has 
acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions, when deciding to close the account. 
I acknowledge that Mrs R have said that the bank is discriminating against her on the 
grounds of her religion. And believe that this is the rationale for the account closure. Whilst 
I recognise the strength of her feelings, Ive not seen any evidence to show any 
discrimination on the part of HSBC.
I also understand Mrs R has raised concerns about the service she received from HSBC. 
Although I appreciate her dissatisfaction with whats happened, Ive not seen anything to 
show HSBC has acted inappropriately.
In summary, I appreciate that my decision will come as a great frustration and 
disappointment to Mrs R. But overall, having looked at whats happened here I dont think 
HSBC treated Mrs R unfairly when it closed her account. So, for this reason I wont be 
asking HSBC to pay Mrs R compensation for any trouble and upset shes been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman