DRN-3661626
The complaint
Mr O complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and their failure to honour an 
extension to his personal loan.
What happened
Mr O held a personal loan provided by NWB, which had payments deferred on two 
occasions due to the impact of COVID-19. These deferrals led to a build up of arrears on the 
loan account, which Mr O decided to repay by extending the period of the loan after being 
offered this option by NWB. 
But Mr Os payment towards the loan wasnt taken in November 2021. And he was made 
aware by NWB at this point that this was because a loan extension shouldnt have been 
offered as there had already been deferrals on the account. So, NWB made Mr O aware 
hed need to agree a repayment plan to clear the arrears, reporting to Mr Os credit file while 
this was agreed. Mr O was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr O was unhappy that NWB had offered a loan extension and felt that, by removing this 
option, they had breached the loan extension contract hed signed. So, Mr O wanted to be 
compensated for the upset this caused him and for any information reported to his credit file 
to be removed.
NWB accepted they had offered Mr O a loan extension when they shouldnt have. So, they 
offered Mr O £100 to recognise the upset this caused. But they didnt think Mr Os credit file 
had been impacted. Mr O disputed this, and NWB agreed to ensure no negative information 
was reported to Mr Os credit file while a repayment plan was agreed. But in June 2022, Mr 
O complained that his credit report was still being affected. NWB accepted they had reported 
to Mr Os credit file when they shouldnt have, so they agreed to remove any negative 
information. And they offered Mr O another £100 in compensation. Mr O remained unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
While the complaint was with our service, NWB offered to pay Mr O a further £50, taking the 
total compensatory offer to £250. And they agreed to monitor Mr Os credit file to ensure any 
further negative information reported would be removed until the repayment plan was 
satisfied.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They agreed NWB had acted 
unfairly when they offered Mr O a loan extension he wasnt eligible for. And they accepted 
NWB had reported to Mr Os credit file unfairly, considering this. But they thought the £250 
NWB had now offered, plus the agreement to ensure Mr Os credit file was monitored and 
any other negative information removed, was a fair one. So, they didnt think NWB needed to 
do anything more, on top of this.
Mr O didnt agree. He explained his credit file was continuing to be impacted. And he 
maintained his belief that NWB had breached contract law by not honouring the extension 
both he and NWB had signed. So, he didnt think the offer was enough to compensate him 
for the upset hed been caused, and the error that NWB had made. As Mr O didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to 
explain exactly what Ive been able to consider, and how.
I recognise Mr O has made several comments regarding NWBs actions and his belief that 
theyve breached contract law. But its not our services role to make determinations on the 
legality of a contract, or whether a law has been broken. This would be a matter for the 
courts. Instead, its my role to consider the actions of NWB and decide whether I think they 
were both fair and reasonable.
And I also recognise Mr O has suggested our service asks NWB to show how theyve 
managed all other loan extensions to see whether any extensions were provided to others 
whod had previous deferrals. But our service is an independent organisation set up to 
investigate individual complaints based on their own circumstances and merits. So, I 
wouldnt expect NWB to provide our service with this information nor do I think its relevant to 
the decision Ive reached.  So, Ive focused my decision on NWBs decision to offer Mr O a 
loan extension, before rescinding this. And the impact this then had on Mr O and his 
finances.
From what Ive seen, its not in dispute that NWB made an error when they offered Mr O the 
chance to extend his loan to clear the arrears. NWB have accepted that, by offering this 
option, they failed to manage Mr Os expectations regarding how hed be able to repay his 
arrears. 
And NWB have accepted because of this, it was unfair of them to report missed payments to 
Mr Os credit file. And that its also unfair for any additional negative information to be 
reported up until the time Mr O has cleared his arrears, as with an extension Mr Os credit 
file wouldnt have been affected.
As NWB have accepted theyve acted unfairly, I havent commented on this any further. 
Instead, Ive turned to the main area of dispute, which centres around what NWB should 
fairly do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what NWB should do to put things right, any award or direction I make 
is intended to place Mr O back in the position he wouldve been, had NWB acted fairly in the 
first instance. And importantly, this shouldnt place Mr O in a position of betterment, as we 
are an impartial service that must ensure fairness to both parties.
From what Ive seen and been able to ascertain, the error NWB made was offering Mr O the 
option of a loan extension, which they were unable to authorise as Mr O had already had 
payment deferrals on the account. So, if NWB had acted fairly, this option wouldnt have 
been offered to Mr O and he wouldve been told correctly that hed either need to clear the 
arrears or agree a repayment plan.Ive seen Mr O entered into a repayment plan in January 2022 and so, I think its reasonable 
for me to assume this is the likely course of action Mr O wouldve chosen as the time. So, 
any award or direction I make must place Mr O back in this position. I appreciate Mr O thinks 
the extension contract both he and NWB signed should be enforced but as Ive already 
explained above, the legalities of a contract and its enforcement would be a matter for the 
courts, not our service.
Had Mr O arranged a repayment plan earlier, I dont think he wouldve missed the payments 
reported to his credit file from November 2021 to January 2022. So, Id expect this 
information to be removed and Im glad to see NWB have already taken steps to ensure this 
is done.
But when a repayment plan is agreed, this plan is usually reported to a customers credit file. 
I can see NWB have recognised the offer of a loan extension led Mr O to believe his credit 
file wouldnt be impacted and so, agreed to ensure any information reported to his credit file 
is removed up until September 2022. I think this a fair offer, and one I endorse. 
As Mr O is on a repayment plan, from what I can tell it seems NWBs system reports to Mr 
Os credit file automatically. So, they are having to remove information from Mr Os credit file 
each month, once its been recognised by their relevant team. I appreciate this isnt ideal for 
Mr O, but Ive seen evidence that satisfies me this process is set up to ensure that Mr Os 
credit file will have no negative information recorded once the arrears have been paid. And I 
think this is fair. While I do think it would be preferential for NWB to prevent the reporting in 
the first place, the way in which NWBs system automatically reports to a customers credit 
file is a business process, and this is something our service is unable to direct them to 
change. 
But I have seen evidence that shows NWB havent always processed the alterations to Mr 
Os credit file correctly. And I think this wouldve been upsetting and frustrating for Mr O. I 
also think it wouldve been upsetting and confusing for Mr O to discover the loan extension 
he thought had been agreed couldnt be processed. I also accept its been inconvenient for 
Mr O to enter into several discussions with NWB about the situation, with several complaints 
being raised over a relatively short period of time. So, I think NWB should compensate Mr O 
for this upset and inconvenience.
I can see NWB have already paid Mr O £200 to compensate him for this. And since Mr O 
brought his complaint to us, NWB have offered to pay Mr O a further £50, bringing the total 
compensatory amount to £250. And I think this total amount is a fair one, which falls in line 
with our services approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made.
I think it fairly takes into consideration the error NWB made, and the impact this had on Mr 
Os expectations and the upset that followed. But I think it also fairly recognises the fact that 
NWB have agreed to ensure Mr Os credit file has no negative information reported by the 
time the arrears are cleared, which actually leaves Mr O in a more preferential position that 
he wouldve been had he entered into a repayment plan as soon as the original loan expired. 
So, I think NWB should pay Mr O the additional £50.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Os complaint about National Westminster Bank 
Plc and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr O an additional £50, taking the total compensatory amount awarded to £250 
overall.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman