DRN-3882589
The complaint
Mr B complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in June 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr B is represented in this complaint by a law firm (the Representative).
What happened
Mr B had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr B had built up 33 years and 11 months pensionable service in the BSPS. His 
annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the scheme in May 2016 was £22,443.96. 
This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed amount.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed (this was later approved by The Pensions Regulator on 11 August 
2017). Under the announced plans, Tata Steel planned to set up and sponsor a new 
successor DB pension scheme (which later became the BSPS2) subject to certain 
conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Mr B was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He contacted another business 
(Firm A) to get advice. Since Firm A didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr B to IFM. It recorded the following information 
about Mr B in June 2017:
He was aged 53, married and in good health. His wife was aged 49 and in good 
health. They had one financially dependent child aged 23;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£44,000. He didnt expect his employment status to change in the foreseeable future. 
His wife was employed by a national supermarket chain and paid gross annual 
income of about £15,000;
Their assets comprised the family home they owned outright, the value of which 
wasnt recorded. They had cash savings of a few thousand pounds. They didnt 
have any other savings or investments; 
They didnt have any debts or liabilities;
After paying for bills and essentials, they had surplus disposable income of about 
£1,200 available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since June 
2016. The total annual contribution paid into his DC plan was 12% of his gross 
annual salary. The value of his DC plan was then about £5,000. He was also on 
course to receive the full state pension at age 67;
His wife had built up 17 years pensionable service in her employers workplace 
pension scheme (further details such as scheme type, fund value and projected 
income werent recorded);
He was an inexperienced investor with limited knowledge and experience of 
investments. On a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 (Risk Averse) was lowest risk and 6 
(Aggressive) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 3 or 
Conservative risk; and
His primary objectives regarding his safeguarded benefits was to retire earlier than 
the BSPS normal retirement age of 65. He wanted to retire somewhere around age 
60 if his financial situation allowed it. And he also wanted to maximise the death 
benefits available to his family;
Following the fact find meeting, IFMs adviser issued his suitability report in June 2017 in 
which he recommended that Mr B accept the transfer value of £569,973.51 offered by the 
BSPS and transfer to a PPP provided by Prudential for the following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You are not prepared to work until 65 and have grave concerns about the solvency of 
the scheme and that if it enters the PPF you will have to work until then.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
Maximising the amount of money available to your family after your death is very 
important to you.
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
0.87% (or £5,000)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.65% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value
0.30% product fee deducted from the PPP fund valueThe basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, Firm A, 
who introduced Mr B to IFM, would provide ongoing advice regarding the 
management and investment of the recommended PPP. In connection with this, 
IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report, It is important that your funds and 
financial planning arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they 
remain suitable. I understand this service will be provided by [Firm A]. The cost of 
this provision can be paid directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on 
an ongoing basis. This is something you and [Firm A] will need to discuss and agree 
on. The cost of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability report.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) showed that Mr Bs estimated revalued annual scheme 
pension at age 65 was £28,726.44 on the basis he took a full scheme pension only. It 
calculated the critical yield to match that benefit as 8.3%. The calculation assumed an 
ongoing annual adviser charge of 0.5% (presumably payable to Firm A). The critical yield at 
age 60  to align with the age at which Mr B wanted to retire  wasnt calculated.
Mr B accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in the following funds to align with            
Mr Bs Conservative risk profile:
Fund Allocation Estimated annual growth 
rate before charges
Prufund Cautious 30% 5.50%
Prufund Growth 70% 6.20%
Weighted estimated annual growth rate before charges was 5.99%
This complaint
During 2022, the Representative, on behalf of Mr B, complained about the suitability of IFMs 
pension transfer advice. It thought that the advice had caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
But IFM didnt issue a final response letter to Mr B either accepting or rejecting this 
complaint. So the matter was referred to this service.
In November 2022, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended it 
be upheld because, in his view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the 
PPP was clearly in Mr Bs best interests. To put things right, our investigator recommended 
that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on the basis that    
Mr B transferred to the BSPS2, took benefits at age 65 and would be a 20% income 
taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended that IFM pay Mr B £350 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
The Representative, on behalf of Mr B, accepted our investigators assessment and made 
some comments about the proposed redress calculation. IFM didnt accept our investigators 
assessment and provided additional comments in response. It requested that the matter be 
referred to an ombudsman for review and that its comments be taken into account when 
deciding this complaint.
This complaint has been referred to me to review and decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In deciding this complaint, Ive carefully considered the additional comments the 
Representative and IFM provided in response to our investigators assessment.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when IFM advised Mr B were set out in COBS 
9.2. The requirements in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as 
follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other  pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail 
client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr B, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Bs situation
The situation for Mr B wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS members, 
many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves having to 
make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to say that 
many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future of 
the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
In response to our investigators assessment, IFM stated that when it advised Mr B in June 
2017, the BSPS2 didnt exist and so wasnt a viable alternative option. In its view, the only 
viable options available to Mr B at that time were:
maintain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS (in the knowledge that there was a 
possibility they would ultimately be transferred to the PPF); or
transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
I agree that by June 2017, there was insufficient information available about the BSPS2 to 
enable IFM to carry out a proper analysis of that option. But its my view that by June 2017 
there was no imminent threat of the BSPS entering the PPF  on the contrary, there had 
already been an update in May 2017 that the key commercial terms of the RAA had been 
agreed. Given that the whole purpose of the consultation was to prevent the BSPS entering 
the PPF, I think, by June 2017, it was more likely than not the BSPS would avoid entering 
the PPF by being restructured into a successor scheme  as it then did. And so I think its 
strongly arguable that IFM shouldve delayed its recommendation until more information 
became available. But for the purposes of making a determination on this complaint, and on 
the basis that IFM advised Mr B before the outcome of the consultation was known, Im 
going to proceed on the basis that it essentially had the two options set out above  beyond 
that of waiting to learn the results of the consultation  to consider when it advised Mr B. 
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS 
was likely to be the better option for Mr B based on his circumstances. And so its my view 
that IFM shouldve only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS if it could 
clearly demonstrate why it was in Mr Bs best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr B was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. My view can be 
summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Bs safeguarded benefits, accounting for 33 years and 11 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset. He had limited other 
assets that could be used to support his retirement income needs. Given the lack of 
other assets, IFM ought to have recognised that Mr B was likely to be heavily reliant 
on the value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income 
to support his standard of living in retirement until state pension age. Given Mr Bs 
limited capacity for loss, I think it was important not to expose the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to unnecessary risk by treating flexibility, control and 
maximisation of death benefits as a high priority at the expense of the primary 
income purpose  unless there was a clearly suitable reason to do so;
Mr B had limited knowledge and experience of investments. He had a Conservative 
risk profile indicating he was at the lower end of the investment risk spectrum. 
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated 
with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to Mr B. Those risks 
wouldve been retained by the BSPS had he been advised not to transfer;
The primary aim of the pension transfer was so that Mr B could retire early, from 
around age 60 if his financial situation allowed it and to maximise the death benefits 
available to his family. But he was then aged 53 (at the time of the advice) and so 
wasnt seeking to take benefits for at least several years. In my view, with such a 
time frame until he planned to take benefits, it made the case for a pension transfer 
at that time  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement  more difficult to 
justify;
The basis of the advice wasnt to enable Mr B to retire immediately but at some 
indeterminate point, many years in the future. IFM failed to obtain the necessary 
information relating to Mr Bs financial situation including his anticipated income and 
expenditure during retirement when assessing whether it was suitable for him to 
transfer out of the BSPS to achieve his early retirement objective. It may well have 
been the case that Mr Bs retirement income need couldve been met by the BSPS 
but IFM failed to establish this. Ultimately, however, theres insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate why it was in Mr Bs best interests to transfer at that time to achieve his 
early retirement objective or whether he could in fact retire earlier than age 65; 
Had IFM advised Mr B not to transfer he wouldve preserved his safeguarded 
benefits in the BSPS and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if 
then deemed suitable, when he was closer to retirement and could determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 53. I 
cant see that any clearly defined advantage was obtained by transferring at that 
time;
IFM recorded that Mr B placed, a higher value on having choice and control over 
your pension fund than having a guaranteed lifetime income. Im not sure what this 
was based on. He had received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think an 
element of guaranteed retirement income before state pension age wouldve been 
valuable for an inexperienced investor in Mr Bs circumstances. It may well have 
been the case that once the state pension started, Mr B may have been in receipt of 
excess income. But any excess income from age 67 onwards could be reinvested for 
future use;IFM recorded that Mr B was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater 
flexibility over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. Im not 
persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced and Conservative risk 
investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits. Theres no real 
evidence that Mr B required the flexibility of irregular lump sums or variable income 
during retirement. Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that he 
had any concrete need for it. But if he did require flexibility, then any flexible needs 
couldve been met by his DC workplace pension and tax-free cash available under 
the BSPS;
Mr B had surplus disposable income of about £1,200 available every month. Theres 
inadequate evidence that IFM considered saving some of these additional monies in 
either a pension, investment or savings account to provide flexible income or lump 
sums rather than transferring and losing benefit guarantees;
IFM recorded that Mr B wanted choice and control over his pension. But he appears 
to have been a largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres no evidence 
he had experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of money. So its 
unclear to me why he suddenly had a desire to do so. In my view, Mr B had limited 
knowledge and experience to enable him to understand the risks involved in 
managing a large pension fund through retirement; 
It was noted that Mr B had grave concerns about a transfer to the PPF. While I 
understand that he may have been concerned about the security of his safeguarded 
benefits, I dont consider a transfer to the PPF was an outcome to avoid. Under the 
PPF, Mr B wouldve received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This 
contrasted with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level 
of benefits payable. If Mr B was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being 
transferred to the PPF which would result in him losing 10% of the scheme pension, 
then I question why, as an inexperienced and Conservative risk investor, he would 
accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed his benefits to unlimited 
downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This doesnt 
make sense to me; 
I think the suitability report misled Mr B about the ability to take early retirement 
benefits under the PPF. It stated, A further consideration is the possibility of a 
Defined Benefit Scheme becoming insolvent and entering the government scheme  
The Pension Protection Fund (PPF). In the event of this, future retirement benefits 
are likely to be reduced and early retirement would not be permitted. It also stated, 
you are extremely worried about the current situation of the British Steel scheme 
and the possibility of it entering the Pension Protection Fund. If it does, the option of 
early retirement will be lost. This is simply incorrect since the PPF permits members 
to take benefits early from age 55 onwards subject to a reduction. The incorrect 
information likely fed into Mr Bs fears about the PPF and wrongly reinforced his 
decision to transfer away so that he retained the option to retire early;
Mr B wanted to maximise the death benefits payable to his family. The existing death 
benefits with the BSPS were not to be underestimated. Mr Bs wife wouldve received 
a guaranteed spouses pension which escalated each year for life which wouldve 
been valuable if Mr B predeceased her. While I understand that death benefits are 
important to consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr B about 
what was best for his own retirement provision. Mr B was recorded as being in good 
health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a suitable course of action at 
that time. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income and lump sum needs 
would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is 
more likely  could be much smaller than expected. Its my view that Mr B had no 
health issues at the time IFM advised him which might reasonably have prompted 
him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake 
of an enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was any real 
merit in him transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit.
Notwithstanding the above, through his employment, Mr B had death in service life 
cover based on a multiple of six times salary. In addition, the value of his DC 
pension plan would be payable as a tax-free lump sum. So its clear his wife would 
receive a large (relative to what was recorded about their wider financial situation) 
lump sum death benefit from other sources in the event of his death. Lastly, it was 
recorded that his wife had built up 17 years pensionable service in her employers 
workplace pension scheme meaning she wasnt entirely reliant on Mr B;
The TVAS calculation produced by Prudential showed that the critical yield to match 
the benefits under the BSPS at age 65 as 8.3%. This compared with a discount rate 
of 3.9% at age 65, as explained by our investigator in his assessment. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Its my view that a 
required annual investment growth rate of 8.3% was incompatible with Mr Bs 
Conservative risk profile, discount rate and the estimated annual growth rate of 
5.99% (before charges) of the recommended investment strategy. I think these 
factors showed that it was likely Mr B would be financially worse off as a result of the 
pension transfer. It seems IFM agree because in its suitability report it stated, We 
consider the chances of consistently achieving an investment return of equivalent to 
8.3% p.a. is unlikely between now and your 65th birthday;
The basis of the recommendation was that Mr B was seeking to take benefits at 
around age 60. If that was the case then I wouldve expected IFM to also calculate 
the critical yield figure at age 60 to enable Mr B to make an informed decision. But it 
didnt. I think this was a material oversight because the critical yield figure at age 60 
wouldve been greater than 8.3% due to the shorter investment timeframe and impact 
of the initial advice charge on the required growth rate. This meant that Mr B wasnt 
provided accurate information about the level of investment growth required in the 
PPP to match the scheme pension if he took benefits earlier than age 65; and
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Bs objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it included misleading information regarding the ability to take benefits early 
under the PPF and lack of reference to the critical yield at age 60. I think these 
inadequacies in the suitability report led to him making an uninformed decision to 
proceed with a pension transfer when this was not in his best interests.
Conclusion
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Bs 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that Mr B couldnt financially bear the risks involved in the pension transfer. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the 
pension transfer was clearly in his best interests compared to the alternative option of 
retaining his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr Bs safeguarded benefits would now 
be preserved in the BSPS2. But IFM challenged this point by stating that the BSPS2 didnt 
exist at the time it advised Mr B in June 2017. As noted above, I agree that by June 2017, 
there was insufficient information available about the BSPS2 to enable IFM to carry out a 
proper analysis of that option when it advised Mr B. However, had IFM advised Mr B to 
maintain his benefits in the BSPS, as I consider it ought to have done, he wouldve been 
contacted in October 2017 as part of the Time to Choose communication exercise and 
presented the opportunity to transfer to either the PPF or BSPS2. 
Therefore, Ive considered whether the comparator scheme for redress purposes should be 
the PPF or BSPS2. There were differences between these options for deferred members like 
Mr B. The PPF was designed to provide members with at least 90% of their starting pension 
value but the BSPS2 was designed to provide members with 100%. The PPF was likely the 
better option for unmarried members who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-
free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting entitlement. But the 
BSPS2 was likely the better option for married members who expected to draw benefits at or 
close to the scheme normal retirement age of 65. The BSPS2 provided the potential for 
discretionary increases to the scheme pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the 
option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable. 
I acknowledge that Mr B had an aspiration to retire from around age 60. However, he was 
still about seven years away from that age when IFM advised him. I think its fair to say that 
plans about retirement can change over such a long period of time. Im not persuaded that 
theres sufficient contemporaneous evidence that supports the position Mr B wouldve 
started taking his safeguarded benefits which involved taking a regular income from age 60. 
And Im not convinced it could be reasonably determined at the time that the PPF was the 
likely better option for Mr B. Therefore, I think, given his age and the lack of clarity 
surrounding when he would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him because at 
age 65 it would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. And so the comparator 
scheme for redress purposes should be the BSPS2.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr Bs Representative and our service upon 
completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of this final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr B accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge him for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr B £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr B the balance. 
If Mr B accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr B can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman