DRN-4062735
The complaint
X has complained about the negligence and poor advice he has received from             
Brewin Dolphin Limited (Brewin Dolphin) about estate planning which has led to a 
significant inheritance tax liability (IHT).
What happened
X transferred his portfolio and SIPP to Brewin Dolphin in 2008. X was a discretionary client 
of Brewin Dolphin who was also to manage his investments and provide estate planning 
advice. 
In February 2012 X was advised to take a Whole of Life policy to cover a potential IHT 
liability of £250,000. X says he wasnt given the details of the drawbacks of the policy. 
In March 2012 X was advised to invest into a Business Premises Renovation Allowance 
(BPRA) scheme. This resulted in a tax bill from HMRC in 2015 which X wasnt expecting.
X had given assets to his two daughters in 2014 and 2017 at his own initiative in order to 
limit further IHT. He wanted to gift further assets in 2020 and sought advice from Brewin 
Dolphin. But X says detailed advice wasnt received. 
In March 2021 X was advised to invest £150,000 in a Business Relief qualifying investment. 
He says this was too high risk for him and didnt align to his risk profile.
 
X says that as a result of Brewin Dolphins poor advice, he has a current IHT liability of over 
£400,000. He holds Brewin Dolphin responsible for the negligent and poor advice he has 
received which has led to psychological distress for X and his wife. He is retired, aged 80 
years old and his wife is unfortunately unwell. 
X complained to Brewin Dolphin in August 2021. In its response, Brewin Dolphin didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said;
The tax due on the BPRA could not have been foreseen. X had been advised about 
the risks involved. 
The Whole of Life policy was a solution to cover a proportion of future IHT liabilities. 
The advantages of all available insurance policies were considered and discussed in 
2012 as was the possibility of an increase in the premiums. 
Xs assets had increased overall, and this increased the likelihood of higher IHT. The 
position had been managed appropriately and 2021 IHT computations showed Xs 
IHT liability would be significantly reduced. 
It didnt uphold Xs complaint but offered £250 for the time taken for it to respond to 
Xs complaint. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld;
He didnt think Xs complaint about the BPRA had been brought to this service within 
the time limits that apply so couldnt be considered.
He did think Xs complaint about the Whole of Life policy was brought in time but was 
satisfied X was given sufficient information about the different types of policy and X 
had chosen which policy was most suitable for him at the time. 
Brewin Dolphin had provided the service in line with the terms of the client 
agreement.
Brewin Dolphin did recommend the BPRA investment in 2021 but as X didnt accept 
that advice, he hadnt suffered any losses. 
X didnt agree with the outcome and asked for it to be considered by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. X provided further comment for my consideration;
X didnt think the complaint about the BPRA was brought out of time. X was waiting 
for HMRCs investigation as it considered the investment a Tax Avoidance Scheme 
in 2015. 
X took out the Whole of Life policy as he was advised to take out a low-cost option 
and this policy would allow Brewin Dolphin to sort out his estate to ensure any IHT 
liability would be minimal. He now must keep servicing the policy and the premiums 
are only going to increase significantly.
He holds Brewin Dolphin responsible for any poor estate planning. 
Brewin Dolphin didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
But I must first consider whether I can look at all of the elements of the complaint brought by 
X and whether they were made within the time limits I have to abide by. X doesnt agree with 
the investigator that the complaint about the BPRA was brought too late. 
The key to deciding whether this complaint has been made in time, is defining the event 
complained about and whether X was aware  or should have been aware  he had cause 
for complaint.
Jurisdiction rules
The rules under which we operate are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. DISP 2.8.2 states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or
(2) more than:(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; unless the 
complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of 
the complaint having been received.
Brewin Dolphin issued its final response to the complaint on 29 November 2021. X brought 
the complaint to this service within six months of this. But Brewin Dolphin doesnt agree we 
can consider certain aspect of Xs complaint because of the other time limits that apply  the 
six- and three-year rules. 
The complaint was made to Brewin Dolphin in August 2021. This is more than six years after 
X received the advice in 2012 about the advice to invest into the BPRA which is the event he 
is complaining about here.
So, I need to think about whether the complaint about the BPRA was made within three 
years of when X became aware  or should reasonably have been aware  he had cause to 
complain. As the complaint was raised in August 2021, I have to consider whether X should 
have known or reasonably been aware he had cause for complaint prior to August 2018  
three years before he made the complaint. 
X was advised to make the investment into the BPRA in February 2012. In 2015 it became 
clear that there was a dispute with HMRC over the amount of tax relief allowable on the 
BPRA. On 13 February 2015 X was provided with a tax payment notice from HMRC and X 
had to pay £6,462.95. X says he didnt recall receiving any advice that such a tax bill could 
arise from this investment. 
In his submission for my consideration X has said to raise a complaint against a firm and still 
be client wouldnt be right  he was in a difficult situation. He felt it was the right course of 
action to wait until the outcome of HMRCs investigation. he was waiting for HMRCs 
investigation. 
However, I dont agree. Xs complaint is that he wasnt made aware of the potential of such a 
tax liability of investing in the BPRA and I think by X receiving a tax bill as early as 2015 
about which X was unhappy and which is now part of his complaint  would have made him 
aware, or he should reasonably have been aware he had cause for complaint. While it might 
have been uncomfortable for X to have raised a complaint with Brewin Dolphin when he was 
still a client, I dont think this is a sufficient reason for him not to have made that complaint. It 
was clearly something that concerned him. And it would have been in 2015 that he was of 
the opinion that he hadnt been made of aware of the potential tax payable  the reason for 
his complaint. So I dont think this element of Xs complaint is one that I can consider.
I can consider whether exceptional circumstances apply to the delay with which the 
complaint about this investment was made, but nothing X has said has shown me that this 
was the case. 
As such, Im satisfied the complaint about the advice to invest into the BPRA received in 
2012 has been brought out of time. It is not one this service can consider. 
The Whole of Life Policy
Our investigator concluded that Xs complaint about the Whole of Life policy was brought 
within the time limits that apply. Brewin Dolphin hasnt disagreed with that conclusion and didnt have anything further to add about the jurisdiction, so I dont address it further here 
and have gone on to consider the merits of the complaint. 
X was advised about the Whole of Life policy in Brewin Dolphins letter of 8 February 2012. It 
was included within a seven-page letter entitled Inheritance Tax Planning under the Using 
Income for IHT Mitigation section. The policy was to provide cover for a potential IHT liability 
of £250,000. X has said that he wasnt made aware of the drawbacks of this policy. It hadnt 
been made clear to him that the premiums could increase so significantly. X is now in the 
position where he has to keep paying those premiums otherwise the policy will lapse. 
X has said that he should have been advised to take standard cover for the Whole of Life 
policy and not maximum cover which is what he did take. With reference to this point the 
letter said;
There are typically two levels of premium basis when considering a whole of life 
policy standard and maximum basis.
Standard/Balanced Cover Basis: Although the level of life assurance (i.e. sum 
assured) selected is guaranteed for life, the premiums are normally reviewable after 
ten years, and every five thereafter. Depending on investment performance and the 
future cost of life assurance, the premium may increase. Contracts set up on this 
basis are usually structured so that there should be no need for premiums to alter 
significantly throughout the life of the plan (although there is no guarantee).
Maximum Cover Basis: Alternatively, it is possible to set up the plan on a maximum 
cover basis, whereby a smaller proportion of the premium is invested after the life 
assurance costs have been deducted. The premiums are normally reviewable after 
ten years, and every five thereafter, but unlike the balanced cover plans, it is more 
likely that the premiums will alter substantially at each review. It is often used where 
whole of life cover is required, but where budgets are limited and higher levels of life 
cover are only needed for shorter periods, typically less than ten years, where after 
the sum assured will decrease or premium increase.
The approximate costs of both types of policy were provided  set up on a joint life, second 
death basis. The standard/balanced cover would cost £344.49 per month and the maximum 
cover basis £59.38 per month. The letter continues with further policy information and other 
types of cover and explains that the; 
whole of life cover on a guaranteed or balanced cover basis is the most expensive to 
establish, but the one least likely to change in cost over time, where cover is provided 
for life. That is with the exception of the maximum basis cover which has a cheap 
starting premium, but that is very likely to increase after ten years by an unknown 
amount as the investment content is so small.  
The letter was followed up by a meeting at with X and his wife on 15 February 2012. The file 
note of the meeting says;
Having received my reasons why letter, they confirmed that temporary cover is 
preferred, and view whole of life assurance with maximum cover as the perfect 
compromise. We agreed that the sum assured should be kept at £250,000 to allow 
for asset growth between now and 10 years, at which point in time they are likely to 
undertake a significant IHT plan.
And on 15 March 2012 in the Protection Options report provided by Brewin Dolphin it said;The features of the plan are explained in detail in the Key Features Document which 
I have enclosed with this review.However, please could I draw your attention to the 
fact that although the whole of life maximum cover is much cheaper to start with  
when compared with a balanced cover basis policy  it is unlikely to be so 
comparatively cheap after the initial review
Taking all of the above into account, I am satisfied that the potential for the premiums to 
alter substantially at each review and very likely to increase after ten years by an unknown 
amount was made clear. And because of that and the other information given, I am further 
satisfied X made a fully informed investment decision about which type of policy would be 
most suitable for him.  So, I am not upholding this element of Xs complaint. But I have gone 
on to consider what other IHT mitigation advice he was given over the following ten years as 
that was clearly Xs intention. 
The advice and service
As explained above, there are certain elements of this complaint that I cant consider 
because of the time limits that apply. As a general overview though, I can see that       
Brewin Dolphin provided valuations on a regular basis and Ive also seen meeting file notes 
and emails suggesting the relationship was ongoing and discussions were had as and when 
needed. 
X has made particular reference to the response he received when he asked for further 
advice on IHT planning on 17 August 2020. At that time X wanted an IHT computation to 
know where he stood and said he had decided not to purchase any further property  an 
earlier consideration  but to gift both of their daughters £100,000. Brewin Dolphin 
responded on 3 September with some comments and the IHT computation and the adviser 
confirmed he was happy to discuss in more detail. X says this response was vague. 
While I agree that the response didnt directly provide advice further to Xs final point about 
the way forward for gifting to Xs daughters, I note it finished with the following comment;
I am very happy to discuss the above in more detail, especially around the use of the 
gift from net excess income rule which may further reduce the value of the gifts 
made, and particularly the impact of the above on your planning to make additional 
gifts. I can also provide other figures accounting for the life cover or further gifts if that 
helps. 
So, while X may not have been happy with that response and it not giving advice there and 
then, I dont find Brewin Dolphins response to be unreasonable. It provided the IHT 
computation and some general comment about the current IHT position and was happy to 
provide further detail about the impact on any additional gifts if X wished to take this forward. 
So, I cant find that Brewin Dolphin has done anything wrong here. It responded 
appropriately to Xs request and offered to discuss the additional gifting if X were to proceed. 
As X wasnt happy with the advice he had received from Brewin Dolphin in February 2021 he 
sought estate planning advice from another provider. As a result, two properties were to be 
put into trust for Xs daughters and he sought advice from Brewin Dolphin about the 
remaining assets. Brewin Dolphin commented on the recommendations that were given to X 
by the other provider and referred to previous action taken throughout their relationship and 
that the emphasis of the new report was a shift from the planning thoughts that we had in 
November and December in that it seems that you are now more concerned about making 
significant gifts now and that the recommendations were tax led. This suggests to me that X was taking a different course of action than had previously been 
discussed. And I note that in his response  X says, It was after discussion with our 
daughters that we decided to set up the trusts and transfer the properties into them. So, it 
does appear that Xs objectives had changed. 
I see from the file that prior to that and further to a meeting held with X the gifts from net 
excess income rule was discussed in September/October/November 2020 or potentially 
exempt transfers (PETs) as an alternative. X provided tax returns for six years and 
additional gift information which resulted in a reworking of the IHT liability calculations. I can 
see this was followed up by a phone call which was to take place on 4 December, but I dont 
have a note of what was discussed. While the reworking of the IHT calculations might have 
taken longer than X liked, this information was provided to him and it looks likely further 
discussion was had. 
Taking all of the above into account, I cant agree that Brewin Dolphin was negligent in the 
service it provided here. 
There was a meeting on 15 February 2021 and following on from Xs email of 26 February, 
on 18 March 2021 emailed X with the suggestion of looking at utilising excess cash to invest 
in a Business Relief qualifying investment. Some brief details were given and it continued I 
would be looking at reducing the value of the estate to £1m or less, so would suggest 
investment of at least £150,000 in to this type of scheme, if not a little more to account for 
the PETs made. Further information and discussion were offered if X was interested. 
X isnt happy with this recommendation. He says it was a knee jerk reaction to mitigate my 
IHT liability which has resulted from mismanagement of my estate. And the 
recommendation shouldnt have been made to him as it was too high risk. 
X may be of the opinion that the recommendation was too high risk for him, and I agree with 
him that it probably was. But Brewin Dolphin explained that while this was a high-risk 
investment it was largely invested in Government backed businesses and offered higher 
returns. And it was partly suggested because of Xs objective of IHT planning. While this 
may have been a high-risk recommendation  and too high risk for Xs appetite for risk  I 
note X didnt act on that advice and hasnt suffered any financial loss as a consequence for 
me to consider. 
An IHT computation was provided to X in April 2021. The information contained was 
incorrect as it hadnt taken into account that the gifts made by X and his wife  which would 
fall out of the estate  were made jointly. No doubt this was very frustrating for X, but I see 
that on 27 April 2021 a follow up email was sent with a new computation based on the 
assumption that the gifts that had been made were done so jointly. I note that Brewin 
Dolphin has apologised for this error and X was given the correct information shortly after 
the original error. So, while it was clear Brewin Dolphin didnt originally provide a correct IHT 
calculation, it did shortly afterwards and offered its apologies. With the exception of Xs 
concerns and frustrations, I cant find that this error caused X any financial loss. 
Its clear that X isnt happy with the advice or the service he received over the years. And by 
him seeking estate planning advice from another adviser suggests X had lost confidence in 
Brewin Dolphin and the relationship had broken down. X was clearly frustrated and no doubt 
disappointed by that. 
But taking all of the above into account, I cant agree that Brewin Dolphin has done anything 
wrong. From the information I have reviewed, the advice given by Brewin Dolphin seems to 
be thorough and generally accurate. Overall, I cant agree that it has acted negligently of the 
management of Xs assets and in giving the advice it has done. And while its inevitable a different estate planner may offer different advice; it doesnt necessarily mean the advice 
that Brewin Dolphin did give was wrong. 
In some instances, X didnt take the advice provided by Brewin Dolphin and also made gifts 
without any advice and any gifts would clearly impact on his potential IHT liability. The IHT 
liability would vary over time depending upon the value of the underlying assets in the estate 
and any gifting or other planning which had taken place. While Brewin Dolphin may not have 
been as proactive as X would have liked Im satisfied it responded appropriate to any 
questions X asked and did provide on-going advice in line with the agreement X had with it. 
Overall, I dont find that any of Brewin Dolphins recommendations or actions I have seen 
have caused detriment to X and I dont uphold his complaint about that. And I cant agree 
that Brewin Dolphin has provided poor or negligent advice. It follows that I dont uphold Xs 
complaint. 
In Brewin Dolphins response to Xs complaint it offered £250.00 for the delay in providing 
that response. I understand that offer is still open to X and it is now for him to decide whether 
to accept it. 
No doubt X will be disappointed with the outcome I have reached. Its clear he feels strongly 
about his complaint and I think him for the efforts he has made in bringing it. But I hope I 
have been able to explain how and while I have reached the outcome to his complaint that I 
have. 
My final decision
For the reasons give, I do not uphold Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman