DRN-1820416
The complaint
Mr T complains that rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in 
respect of a bathroom which wasnt completed.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr T took out a fixed sum loan for £3,303 to pay for a new bathroom. He 
paid a deposit of £367. Mr T says the work wasnt competed and the merchant went bust. 
He says he paid a fitter £1,000 in cash to compete the work and he also did some of it 
himself. He also says that a shower tray supplied by the merchant was damaged.
Mr T contacted Hitachi in October 2019 and informed it that the merchant had gone bust. He 
also said the shower tray had broken. The loan from Hitachi was with a supplier I will call C 
and it seems the installer, which I will call H, was the business which went bust. As it had 
made a fixed term loan Hitachi didnt have a copy of the contract between Mr T and H and 
he didnt supply any paperwork in support of his claim. 
He didnt notify Hitachi of the problem until after the work had been done and so it wasnt in 
a position to establish there had been a breach of contract or to authorise the work. It 
rejected his claim, but offered him £100 as a goodwill gesture. Mr T brought his complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld.
He said there was limited information as to what H had contracted to provide. He couldnt 
say if it was simply the provision of the goods or if it included installation. The only hard 
information was the agreement with Hitachi which was for the purchase of a bathroom with 
no mention of installation.
He said that even if installation was included and wasnt completed, Mr T arranged for the 
work to be done without giving Hitachi the opportunity to review what works were incomplete 
and arrange for a repair.
On the matter of the damaged shower tray he couldnt say if this had been supplied broken 
or that this had happened subsequently. He didnt believe there was sufficient evidence to 
allow him to ask Hitachi to pay for it. 
He noted Hitachi had asked for evidence from Mr T to support his claims but none was made 
available. He though the refund of £100 for a missing door as a gesture of goodwill. He felt 
this was a reasonable offer in the circumstances.
Mr T didnt agree and said he didnt know which finance company had provided the loan until 
it had contacted him a year later. He didnt think he should pay for something which hadnt 
been provided. He also queried the date he was due to pay off the loan. He thought it was 
due to start 24 months after the work had been completed. Overall, he felt that he shouldnt 
pay for what he hadnt received. Our investigator explained that Hitachi had written to him 
shortly after he signed up to the loan and it was repayable from November 2019.
Mr T has asked that the matter be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The debtor is Mr T, the creditor is Hitachi and the supplier is C. However, Mr T says he had 
an agreement with H for the supply and installation of the bathroom. If that is correct the 
required debtor-creditor-supplier chain is broken and section 75 does not come into play.
However, we have little documentation whatsoever to determine what was agreed and by 
whom. The only material I have seen is the loan agreement with Hitachi which shows C as 
the supplier, and the goods or service to be supplied is described as Bathroom. It is not 
clear if C was engaged to install the bathroom or simply to provide the goods which H was 
due to install. 
Nor can I see what relationship existed between H and C if any at all. Furthermore, since Mr 
T didnt notify Hitachi when the problem arose and took matters into his own hands, he was 
unable to demonstrate to it the problem and seek agreement as to how to rectify it.
Even though it is not clear that the chain is unbroken I will consider the issue of breach of 
contract. Mr T now asks Hitachi to pay in excess of £1,000, but it in turn asks for evidence to 
show why it is liable under section 75. While I have no reason to doubt what Mr T says I 
cannot ask Hitachi to pay him without some supporting evidence. He has not given any 
details of the cash payment of £1,000 other than to say it was paid to someone to finish the 
installation work.
It is also not clear what happened to the shower tray. Mr T has said H gave it to him and it 
cracked later, but how or why it broke has not been established.
To establish there was a breach of contract I need to know what H or C was contracted to 
provide and what it actually did. I am not in a position to reach an informed conclusion since 
there is little evidence to support Mr Ts claim.
Overall, I cannot see any basis on which I can ask Hitachi to do more that it has already 
done.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman