DRN-1158216
Complaint
Mr L complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) made a single compensation payment when he 
complained about non-payment of two direct debits. He says that two compensation 
payments should have been made.
Background
Mr L complained when TSB experienced computer issues. TSB paid compensation of £100 
for inconvenience and £93 payment to cover the calls that Mr L had said hed made to the 
bank. 
Mr L later learnt that the payments hadnt been missed. He nonetheless felt that the bank 
should pay him more compensation as he made two complaints which the bank decided to 
treat as one. 
The investigator concluded that it was reasonable for TSB to deal with the complaints 
together as they related to the same issue. The amount of compensation paid was fair and 
reasonable. The Investigator noted that TSB still stood beside its decision to pay £100 
compensation on top of the £93 to cover telephone costs even when it turned out that the 
payments had not been missed. 
The Investigator felt there was little more we could ask of TSB here.
Mr L still feels the compensation is not enough.  It has been referred to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see that Mr L had been inconvenienced in making several calls to TSB and was left 
worrying that non payment of his direct debits may have some ongoing issues. He has since 
confirmed that this was not the case and he did not suffer any financial loss.
On considering whether or not the complaints should have been looked at separately, Ive 
tried to establish if this would have been the right course of action by TSB. The two 
complaints stemmed from the same computer problem shortly after one another and related 
to the same direct debits. Therefore I do not feel that is  unreasonable for TSB to have dealt 
with these issues together. 
As far as the compensation amounts paid I agree with the Investigator that this represents a 
fair sum. TSB paid Mr L £93, they did not ask for evidence of the phone call bills from Mr L to 
justify his claim. It also paid £100 in compensation for any inconvenience it may have 
caused, even when it was shown that the direct debits were made on time from his account. 
While I understand that Mr L may be disappointed with my decision I dont feel I can ask 
anymore of TSB here.  My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman