DRN-4356193
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (Mercedes) 
irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase agreement that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In May 2022 Mrs B acquired a vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Mercedes. Mrs B was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £503.26 followed by one 
optional purchase payment of £13,775. The credit agreement states that the total amount 
repayable was £46,185.04. The agreement shows a deposit of £8,243.56. Mrs B and her 
representative believes Mercedes failed to complete adequate affordability checks. Mrs B 
and her representative says that if it had it wouldve been clear that the agreement wasnt 
affordable.
Mercedes disagreed. It said it carried out relevant and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the agreement was affordable for Mrs B. It also said that the supplying dealership was 
unaware of Mrs Bs vulnerabilities when completing the sale. It did however offer Mrs B £150 
for delays in responding to her complaint.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. They thought Mercedes 
hadnt provided them with enough information to be satisfied that its checks were 
proportionate and that had it completed proportionate checks it would have likely found the 
agreement was unaffordable for Mrs B. 
Mrs B agreed. Mercedes disagreed in part. It accepted that the finance shouldnt have been 
approved, but it felt that the compensation recommended by the Investigator was unfair. It 
felt the redress went beyond putting Mrs B back in the correct position It felt the proposed 
redress would place Mrs B in a position of betterment. It asked for an Ombudsman to issue a 
final decision on the matter. The complaint has been passed to me for a decision to be 
made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Bs complaint. Mercedes needed to 
ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly as per the rules set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). In practice, what this means is that Mercedes needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for Mrs B 
before providing it.
Mercedes was required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Mrs Bs ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focussed and 
proportionate (see CONC 5.2A). What is considered proportionate will vary depending on 
the circumstances, such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of the 
monthly repayments, the term of the agreement (CONC 5.2A.20 R), and the consumers 
specific circumstances.
Our Investigator found that the finance should not have been approved. And Mercedes have 
accepted this. So, the remaining issue appears to be solely how best to put things right. 
Therefore, my decision will focus on whether the recommendation made by our Investigator 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The central issue is the fact that our Investigator believes the full monthly repayments made 
by Mrs B should be refunded, with interest. Mercedes dont feel that it would be fair for Mrs B 
to receive a full refund as she had been in possession of the vehicle for some time.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage ought to be. However, in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on 
the agreement, the likely use Mrs B had of the car and the costs she would likely have 
incurred to stay mobile if shed never entered into this agreement. In this specific case Mrs B 
hasnt used the vehicle at all since acquiring it. As she hasnt used the vehicle, I dont think 
there is any notable benefit shes received from having the agreement incorrectly approved.
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Mercedes to retain any amount of the 
monthly payments Mrs B has paid for each month she had use of the vehicle. Again, Ive 
reached this conclusion as Mrs B has not used the vehicle once since obtaining it, and so 
has also not saved on any travel costs to stay mobile during the period. There is no clear 
benefit the possession of the car has afforded her. 
By directing Mercedes to refund the full monthly repayments Im attempting to put Mrs B, as 
close as possible, back in the position she wouldve been in were it not for the finance being 
unfairly approved. I cant say that ownership of the vehicle has saved her on any particular 
costs or afforded her some otherwise unavailable conveniences. She simply hasnt used the 
vehicle. Ultimately the finance should not have been approved and the cost of resolving the 
matter fairly for Mrs B is now the responsibility of Mercedes.
Putting things right
As its agreed that Mercedes should not have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it 
to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement.
To put things right Mercedes-Benz Financial Services Limited should:
End the agreement in full and collect the car with nothing further for Mrs B to pay
Refund the £8,243.56 deposit, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund all the payments Mrs B has made towards the agreement, adding 8% simple 
interest per year* from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Once Mercedes has received the vehicle back, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file regarding this agreement.*HM Revenue and Customs requires Mercedes to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Mercedes must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited to put things right in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman