DRN-2850433
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc has refused to write off his debt and has refused 
to provide reasons for the decision.
What happened
Mr B says he is unable to pay his debts following health problems. He says he asked 
Sainsburys to write off his debt, but it refused and wouldnt provide reasons for that refusal. 
Mr B says Sainsburys doesnt have an appeal process and also complains about how it 
dealt with him on a telephone call in November 2020 when it ended the call.
Sainsburys says it made a decision not to write off the debt and isnt obliged to provide 
reasons for that. It says no interest is charged and it will review Mr Bs account every six 
months. It also says its specialist team will make contact every six months and dealt 
appropriately with the call in November 2020.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr Bs medical letter didnt suggest he would be unable to work at any stage and 
thought Sainsburys was entitled in those circumstances not to write the debt off. The 
investigator also thought Sainsburys had acted fairly by agreeing to make contact every six 
months to review the position. And dealt fairly with the November 2020 call by ending it 
when Mr B made certain comments.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says Sainsburys actions have contributed towards his 
health problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision.
I make clear to Mr B that we are not Sainsburys regulator and so its not our role to order it 
to provide its customers with an appeal process or reasons for rejecting a request to write off 
a balance. Im satisfied that such matters are for Sainsburys to decide upon when exercising 
its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in.
Im satisfied that Mr B owed Sainsburys money and had the benefit of that money and so I 
dont think Sainsburys made a mistake or acted unfairly by asking Mr B to repay that money. 
I have looked carefully at the letter from Mr Bs General Practitioner which amounts to about 
three lines in which it is said Mr B  is finding it difficult to find work. I dont think that letter 
suggests Mr B will not be able to return to work at any stage and it follows that I think 
Sainsburys was entitled to reasonably conclude that it would not write off the debt in those 
circumstances. I have made clear that I dont think Sainsburys acted unfairly by refusing to 
provide exact reasons for its decision or that it was obliged to have an appeal process in 
place.
I have listened to the telephone call between the parties in November 2020. Having done so 
Im satisfied Sainsburys dealt appropriately with it and was entitled to end the call when Mr 
B became frustrated with its decision.
Sainsburys should treat customers in financial and other difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That doesnt mean it should simply write off a debt in those circumstances. 
Im satisfied Sainsburys has tried to help Mr B by asking its specialist team to assist him and 
by agreeing to reduce any contact to twice a year. I appreciate that wasnt the response Mr 
B wanted. But that doesnt mean Sainsburys acted unfairly or that it didnt try to assist Mr B 
in other ways other than writing off the debt which was incurred by Mr B.
Overall, Im satisfied Sainsburys has dealt fairly with this complaint and I cant in those 
circumstances order Mr Bs debt be written off or ask it to do anything further here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman