DRN-2580104
The complaint
 Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC incorrectly reversed a large number of payments 
under a direct debit indemnity. Mr D also complains about the length of time they took to 
correct their errors.
 
What happened
Mr D had an account with a company that provides electronic payment services - Ill refer to 
them as Company P. This account allowed Mr D to make online payments. He had a direct 
debit in place, so that Company P would automatically charge all his online payments to his 
HSBC current account. 
On 25 September 2019, Company P debited payments of £450 and £520 from Mr Ds HSBC 
account twice. Mr D contacted HSBC and Company P. HSBC raised a direct debit indemnity 
to recall these amounts if Company P hadnt reversed them within 7 days. Company P did 
reverse the two duplicated payments, which put Mr Ds HSBC account back to the correct 
position.
On 15 December 2019 HSBC incorrectly actioned the direct debit indemnity. This caused 
between 40 and 50 payments to Company P to be reversed  in total £5,038.98 was 
credited back to Mr Ds HSBC account. Mr D didnt know anything about this until 8 January 
2020, when he noticed strange activity on his online payment account. It suddenly showed a 
negative balance - saying he owed Company P £1,134.36. He began to receive emails from 
distressed people whod had online payments taken back - even though theyd supplied the 
things hed bought from them. 
Mr D was concerned that this strange account activity must be due to fraud, so he contacted 
HSBC and Company P for help. At first HSBC assured him that no payment reversals had 
been made. But after he raised a complaint, HSBC admitted these reversals were due to 
their error. On 16 January they tried to correct this by returning £5,038.98 to Company P and 
crediting £970 to Mr Ds HSBC account for the two duplicated payments. Then, realising Mr 
D had already been credited by Company P, on 5 February they took back the £970 that 
theyd credited to his account. HSBC believed this put Mr Ds account back to the position 
they should have been in - they offered him £200 compensation.
 
But Mr Ds online payment account didnt change  it still showed the same negative 
balance. One of our investigators looked in to what had happened. He discovered that, 
although HSBC had returned the payment to Company P, it had no recognisable reference 
on it. This was why Company P hadnt credited the returned payment to Mr Ds online 
payment account.
The investigator thought HSBCs errors had caused Mr D a significant amount of 
inconvenience and distress. He thought HSBC should pay Mr D £500 compensation for the 
trouble and upset hed been caused.
HSBC agreed to this, but Mr D remained unhappy about the amount of work he still has to 
do to correct the problems with his online payment account  none of which were his fault. 
The case has come to me for a decision. 
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
All direct debit arrangements are covered by the direct debit guarantee, which is there to 
protect customers if theres been an error with a payment. If a customer queries a payment, 
they get an immediate refund from their bank. In turn, the bank gets the money back from 
the originator  in this case Company P. This is called the direct debit indemnity. 
It isnt disputed that HSBC handled the direct debit indemnity incorrectly  none of the 
payments to Company P should have been reversed. And although they didnt admit their 
error immediately, the evidence Ive seen shows that HSBC tried to put things right for Mr D 
after he complained. They returned the money theyd taken from Company P the following 
month and offered Mr D compensation. But unfortunately, HSBCs error had already caused 
a significant amount of trouble for Mr D.
HSBC have been unable to provide a reliable and accurate breakdown showing how they 
calculated that a sum of £5,038.98 should be reversed. From the evidence Ive seen, I think 
its likely that all direct debits to Company P were reversed from 25 September 2019 
onwards, because this was the date that the direct debit indemnity took effect. So, until 
HSBC corrected their error, every payment Mr D made using his online payment account 
was returned to him. 
When a bank reverses a payment, Company P treats this as a disputed transaction and 
reclaims the money from the merchant. Mr Ds online payment account shows between 40 
and 50 individual transactions were disputed. Mr D says he received a lot of emails from 
distressed people whod had their payments taken back - even though theyd correctly 
supplied him with goods. He was accused of being a fraudster. 
The reversals also left Mr Ds online payment account with a negative balance. This caused 
Company P to freeze his online payment account in January 2020, so he was no longer able 
to use it. They also warned him that theyd start debt collection action unless he paid what 
he owed.
Although HSBC returned the reversed funds to Company P in January, from the evidence 
Ive seen I dont think it was clear that the money was to be directed to Mr Ds account. Mr D 
has made a separate complaint about Company Ps handling of this problem, so I wont go 
into that here. But its clear that the way HSBC returned the money caused a delay in getting 
things put right. 
Although the funds have now been returned to Company P, they have no way of reversing a 
batch of disputed transactions. Mr D will need to work through each affected transaction in 
turn and repay the money. I can understand his frustration  resolving the problems caused 
by HSBCs error has already taken up a lot of his time. I can see that having to deal with 
merchants who were upset or abusive towards him has already caused Mr D a great deal of 
distress, as well as feeling that his reputation has been tarnished. Mr D says he has a very 
busy lifestyle - he doesnt think he should have to spend even more of his valuable time 
correcting all the reversed transactions himself, when none of this was his fault. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt here to punish a business for getting things wrong  
thats not something we can do. Our role is to look at the impact their error has had on the 
customer and consider whether the business should do more to put that right. 
In this case Im satisfied that HSBCs error had a substantial impact on Mr D. Hes been 
caused considerable stress and inconvenience, and he still faces the daunting and time-
consuming task of correcting each of the reversed online payments. I think its fair and 
reasonable that the compensation HSBC pays Mr D should reflect this. 
I said that, subject to any further comments I received, I intended to uphold Mr Ds complaint 
and direct HSBC to pay him £1,000 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC said they had nothing to add. Mr D sent further comments  his main points were:
The provisional decision didnt summarise the details of his complaint accurately. 
HSBC should pay compensation for his inconvenience so far, as well as the further 
inconvenience he still faces.
It will require an immense effort for him to rectify the problems caused in his online 
payment account  and the compensation should reflect this.
Despite logging into his online payment account to get an understanding of whats 
required to resolve the errors, hes unable to quantify how long this will take. He 
estimates that it will involve approximately 150 hours of activity  taking 12 dedicated 
weekends. He feels he would also face additional hassle and the possibility of 
continued abuse.
Mr D feels £2,500 would be a fair and sensible amount of compensation in these 
circumstances.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful for Mr D taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. I realise that my 
summary of Mr Ds complaint may not be written in the way that he wouldve said it. For 
example, Mr D didnt know that the money had appeared in his HSBC account due to the 
direct debit indemnity being actioned incorrectly. But, having carefully considered his 
comments about the wording Ive used, Im satisfied that this doesnt affect the outcome in 
this case.
Ive also carefully reconsidered what Mr D has said about the stress and inconvenience 
these problems have caused him. I can understand his frustration at whats happened  and 
I can see that he now faces a daunting and time-consuming task. I was provisionally minded 
to award £1000 in compensation for that reason. In reaching that figure I took into account, 
among other considerations, that Mr D would need to spend a considerable amount of time 
resolving the errors. I appreciate that the longer it takes, the more inconvenient it becomes 
for Mr D. But the compensation isnt intended to account for each hour spent, rather for the 
inconvenience and stress this matter has caused. Ive also taken into account Mr Ds 
comments that compensation in this matter doesnt put matters right for him  whatever the 
sum. I havent seen any firm evidence to suggest that the figure falls outside our substantial 
compensation bracket, or that a higher amount of compensation is appropriate here. 
   My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank PLC to pay 
Mr D £1,000 compensation for the stress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman