DRN-3685194
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Go Car Credit Limited (GCC) mismanaged her account. She says:
1. Shes had difficulties working out who she should pay towards the outstanding 
balance because of numerous changes in which business is managing the account.
2. She also complains that the immobiliser on the vehicle has been faulty which has 
prevented her using the car and led to further problems with the vehicle. 
3. Finally, she said that someone at GCC told her they thought her debt should be 
waived due to her experience with them. 
What happened
Mrs W had acquired a car in 2016 through a hire purchase agreement with a different 
business. Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) purchased the account in August 2019. GCC had 
already been involved managing the account, and Arrow outsourced some further 
management of the account to GCC for a period of time.
 
In the following six to nine months, Mrs W experienced problems with the vehicle which she 
raised with GCC, as well as issues making payments for the agreement. After a period of 
confusion as to who was dealing with what, she raised a complaint about these issues with 
Arrow after speaking to them in June 2020. 
Arrow issued their Final response letter (FRL) in August 2020, answering her concerns 
including those about things while GCC was managing the account. They partially upheld 
her concerns about confusion as to who was managing the account when and made a 
payment for the distress and inconvenience caused by this. However, they didnt uphold her 
concerns about the issues with the car/immobiliser. 
Mrs W then complained to GCC in March 2021 about the same issues. She also complained 
at this time that someone at GCC had told her on a phone call that they thought her debt 
should be waived due to her experience with them.  
GCC answered this complaint in May 2021, agreeing again that there had been confusion as 
to who managed the account at times and offering £100 compensation, which wasnt 
accepted. They also said, as in the previous Arrow FRL, that they didnt uphold the concerns 
about the immobiliser/car problems. And finally, they said they could find no evidence of a 
conversation with Mrs W about how her debt should be waived, so didnt uphold this. 
Unhappy with these responses, Mrs W brought her complaint to us. The investigator who 
looked at her complaint identified two distinct complaints. They said the first complaint, to 
Arrow Global, was out of our jurisdiction to be considered. It had been more than six months 
after the FRL was provided to her when she brough the complaint to us, which meant we 
could not consider it. 
The second complaint about GCC, was largely about the same issues. We had already 
given our view on two of these issues (the confusion around who was managing the account 
and the problems with the immobiliser/car), in deciding they were out of our jurisdiction to 
consider. So, the investigator dismissed these points without reconsidering them, explaining 
that as we had already considered the subject matter in the previous complaint, we would 
not consider it again. For the final issue about Mrs W being told that her debt should be 
waived, as there was no evidence of this phone call happening, this point was not upheld. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with these answers and asked for her entire complaint to be 
reconsidered by an Ombudsman, as she feels these views are unfair. 
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is being issued alongside the one involving Arrow Global Limited. I agree with 
the view of our investigator that the concerns Mrs W is raising are split into two complaints, 
one about Arrow and one about GCC. 
In the case against Arrow, I have written a separate decision, confirming that those concerns 
are out of our jurisdiction, as they were brought to us too late. 
On this basis, I am dismissing those same concerns (numbered one and two here) on this 
complaint. 
The framework of rules we operate under are called the DISP rules and can be found online 
in the FCA handbook. DISP 3.3.4A outlines reasons we might choose to dismiss a complaint 
without answering it, which include where it would seriously impair the effective operation of 
our service. 
Within this description, in section 3.3.4B, it explains that examples of this would include: 
where the subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded 
under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which the 
Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available to 
the complainant). 
This means that if weve already considered the content of a complaint, and either given an 
answer, or said that we cant give an answer because its outside of our jurisdiction, we wont 
reconsider that same complaint again and give any further answer. For these reasons, I am 
dismissing points one and two of this complaint. There has been no new material evidence 
provided for me to reconsider this decision weve already made. 
That leaves the third concern, about someone at GCC telling Mrs W during a phone call that 
they thought GCC should waiver her debt. I agree with the view given previously that without 
firm evidence of this call, I cant uphold a complaint about this issue. 
However, I would take this one stage further. Even if someone on a phone call has said this 
to Mrs W, it doesnt mean GCC should waive the debt. With evidence of the call, I might 
have considered whether this information had caused any distress or inconvenience to Mrs 
W. But that call wouldnt mean GCC should do anything differently in dealing with Mrs Ws 
debt. With no evidence that the call happened or what was said, and the fact it would have 
no material impact on how Mrs Ws debt should be managed, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I wont be asking GCC to do anything further here. GCC offered Mrs W £100 in recognition 
of the confusion, and she may wish to contact them to arrange this payment if its still 
available to her. 
My final decision
As explained above in my final decision, I am dismissing the first two complaint points here 
without considering them, and I am not upholding the third point. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman