DRN-2856064
The complaint
Mr F complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt deal with his request to close his 
account as quickly as they shouldve, and that their delay affected his health. 
What happened
On 19 February 2021, Mr F called Tesco to close his account. When Mr F didnt pass 
security, Tesco said they would need to re-set his security number. Tesco then told Mr F that 
the mobile number he provided didnt match the number they held and said a temporary 
security number would be sent by post.
When Mr F called again on 2 March, an attempt was made to pass security using the 
temporary security number Tesco had sent. When this failed Tesco sent another temporary 
number to Mr Fs mobile phone. The second attempt also failed. Mr F raised a complaint at 
this point. The next day Tesco called Mr F. After completing security, the account was closed 
and a cheque for the account balance was sent to Mr F. 
Tesco provided a response to Mr Fs complaint and accepted they shouldnt have sent the 
temporary security number by post as they held the correct mobile number for him. They 
apologised for not sending the number by text during the initial call. They explained a new 
temporary security number can take up to 24 hours to arrive by text message and this 
couldve caused the problems in the call on 2 March. Tesco arranged for a cheque for 
£50.00 to be sent to Mr Fs home as compensation. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Tescos response and brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things for Mr F and initially thought Tesco didnt need to do 
anything else. Mr F then told our investigator he didnt think we or Tesco had taken into 
account his mental health issues and how the events affected him.
Although Mr F later cancelled the £50.00 cheque and asked for the amount to transferred to 
an account he held with another back, this isnt a complaint we can investigate as it relates 
to how the business handled the complaint. This has been explained to Mr F.
Our investigator spoke with Mr F and obtained new information from him to try and 
understand how the delay had affected him. After her discussion with Mr F, our investigator 
thought that Tescos offer of £50.00 didnt fully consider the impact of their service on Mr F. 
Our investigator thought Tesco should pay Mr F a further £100.00 to reflect that the events 
left him confused and concerned about the account closure and affected his mood to the 
point that he didnt leave his home for a couple of weeks.
Tesco didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
complaint. The complaint has now been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco accept they couldve done things better when Mr F contacted them to close his 
account. They agree they held the correct mobile number for Mr F. And that during the call 
on 19 February 2021 they shouldve sent the temporary security number by text message. 
Its clear to me that sending the temporary security number by post added to the time it took 
for Tesco to close the account. Then when Mr F attempted to use the temporary security 
number he received in the post, he had to contact Tesco again. Unfortunately, when he did 
call them again, there were two further failures when the temporary security numbers were 
sent to his mobile during the call on 2 March.
Ive seen that Tesco did call Mr F the following day and the account was closed.
As Tesco have agreed they couldve done better, Ive considered whether the £50.00 Tesco 
paid Mr F for the delay in closing the account reasonably reflects the impact on him. In doing 
so Ive listened to what Mr F told our investigator after he told her he didnt consider Tesco, 
or our service had fully considered the impact on him.
Mr F says that after his initial call to Tesco he was left concerned and worried about what he 
might have to do next or what might happen next. He told us that his anxiety increased, and 
this affected his mood and increased his depression. Mr F says he didnt feel like leaving his 
house for two weeks and a couple of times he needed people to pick things up for him.
Tesco say that Mr F didnt make them aware hed been greatly affected by the events at the 
time and they feel our investigator proposed a disproportionate remedy. They add that they 
acted reasonably, and our investigator is looking at things with the benefit of hindsight.
I appreciate that Tesco feel theyve done enough, but I dont agree. Its unfortunate that Mr F 
couldnt make it clear what the impact of the poor service on him was until he had seen the 
initial view letter our investigator sent to him. However, Mr Fs response after our 
investigators initial view was issued, persuades me the events did affect his mental illness 
and likely made him more anxious than he had previously been able to express. I dont 
believe Mr F wouldve been able to comment about the remedy until he received the letter 
from our investigator. When we received his comments, we spoke with him to try and 
understand what it was that made him consider the impact on him hadnt been fully 
recognised.
Having considered Mr Fs comments and his explanation of how he felt the events had 
affected him, Im satisfied that its likely they did trigger feelings of anxiety and depression. 
And added to his concern about the delay and what he would have to do next to close his 
account. Tesco couldve avoided this as they knew of Mr Fs mental health issues and would 
reasonably have been aware any delay or uncertainty would likely add to his anxiety and 
depression.  
So, although I understand Tesco dont feel a further remedy of £100.00 is proportionate, Im 
satisfied that its a fair reflection of the impact on Mr F. It reflects the new information Mr F 
provided when he was able to express how the events had impacted his wellbeing. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Tesco Personal Finance PLC must pay 
Mr F an additional £100.00.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 Paul Lawton
Ombudsman