DRN-3742719
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy because Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim she made on 
her employers group income protection scheme. 
What happened
Miss S was a member of her employers group income protection scheme. In April 2020 she 
became absent from work and claimed on the scheme. She explained that she was 
experiencing anxiety and had also had a number of bereavements. 
Aviva declined the claim as they didnt think Miss S met the policy definition of incapacity. 
They said that the medical evidence didnt indicate that her symptoms were of such severity 
that shed been totally unable to work for a prolonged period of time. Aviva also highlighted 
that there were issues within the workplace. Miss S complained but Aviva said they were 
right to decline the claim. Unhappy, Miss S complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
Aviva had acted reasonably when declining the claim. 
Miss S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. She says she has a 
sick note and also had back and neck problems. She also explained that shed taken the 
income protection policy as it was recommended by her employer and that she felt that this 
was all about money, rather than people. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Its for Miss S to show she has a valid claim under the policy, not for Aviva to show that she 
doesnt. So, Miss S needs to show that she met the policy definition of incapacity. This says 
that incapacity means:
The members or former employees inability to perform on a full or part time basis 
the duties of his or her job role as a result of their illness or injury.
The policy also says: 
Absence caused by workplace matters, such as relationship breakdown, workplace 
demands or failure to make reasonable adjustments are not covered. 
Absence caused by a lifestyle choice or family requirement such as the need to care 
for a dependant are not covered. 
Did Aviva unfairly decline the claim? 
Im sorry to see that Miss S experienced a number of bereavements before she took time off 
work. Its clear that shed had a very difficult time. 
But I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline the claim because: 
Miss S was signed off work by her doctor. But, it doesnt automatically mean the 
policy definition of incapacity is met. To meet the definition of incapacity Miss S 
would need to be unable to perform on a full and part time basis the duties of her job 
role as a result of her illness. 
Ive taken into account the available medical evidence. Whilst theres information 
about Miss Ss mental health it doesnt include much detail about why the GP thought 
Miss S wasnt fit for work. 
The medical evidence also doesnt comment in detail on why Miss S couldnt carry 
out the duties of her job role. So, I dont think the available medical evidence gives a 
detailed insight into Miss Ss ability to work.
I also think Aviva reasonably concluded that there were issues in the workplace. 
Miss S expressed a number of times that she didnt like her job and the workplace. 
For example, she said she hated her job, felt excluded and wasnt supported. The 
GP notes also reference stress at work. The policy doesnt cover workplace issues 
and so I think this was another reason for Aviva to fairly decline this claim.
I think Aviva has assessed Miss Ss claim in detail. I know that she feels Aviva has 
put money over people. But, I think theyve reviewed her claim fairly, taking into 
account the medical information and policy terms. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman