DRN-4411523
The complaint
G, a limited company complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied a charge and then 
failed to properly follow its complaints process.
Mr K, a director of G, brings this complaint on Gs behalf. 
What happened
As part of switching Gs account to another bank, Santander applied a £10 charge.
Mr K contacted Santander about the charge by email on 8 May 2023. Santander replied to 
say that although the charge was included in an invoice that G attached to its email  
Santander had not debited the charge from Gs account.
Mr K was unhappy that Santander didnt just raise his complaint as hed asked. Mr K wanted 
Santander to apologise and offer a gesture of goodwill.
Santander provided evidence that it sent G its final response on 22 May 2023. Santander 
told G that it had correctly applied the charge but as Mr K hadnt been made aware about the 
charge, it had refunded the fee to Gs account. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Gs complaint be upheld. In summary, our 
investigator agreed that Santanders emails were a little abrupt but as the complainant is G, 
not Mr K, we couldnt consider any distress he may have felt personally.
Our investigator thought that Santander had applied the charge correctly. As it had refunded 
the charge after raising Gs complaint, he didnt ask Santander to take further action.
Mr K is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He thinks that we have not addressed the 
fact that Santander ignored Gs complaint and failed to respond to his emails for months. 
Our investigator responded to say that Santander raised Gs complaint on 16 May 2022 so 
he didnt think that Santanders lack of response to a couple of earlier emails impacted G.
Mr K remains unhappy with the outcome and asks whether Santander followed their own 
terms and conditions or the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service by not raising a 
complaint after hed sent three separate emails.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ks frustration with the way that Santander handled Gs complaint but the 
Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt supervise, regulate, or discipline the businesses we 
cover. It would be for the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority  to make decisions 
about the way in which businesses work. 
I should also say that complaint handling, as an activity in itself, is not generally a regulated 
activity that this service can consider. That being said, the evidence Santander has provided 
shows that it acknowledged Gs complaint by email on 12 May 2023. Santander then sent a 
letter acknowledging the complaint by email on 16 May 2023, before sending it its final 
response  also by email  on 22 May 2023. This makes it difficult for me to find that 
Santander ignored Mr Ks request to raise a complaint on behalf of G.
I understand that Mr K found Santanders emails to be curt and unhelpful but this complaint 
is made by G, not Mr K. G cant have hurt feelings, so although I appreciate how Mr K felt 
about his interactions with Santander, I cant make an award to G to reflect that upset. 
It is unfortunate that Santander initially told Mr K that it hadnt deducted the charge from Gs 
account. But Im satisfied that Santander explained what had happened and refunded the 
amount of the charge in less than two weeks after Mr K first complained. 
The charge that Santander applied was done so in line with the terms of Gs account which 
allow Santander to charge £10 for making a faster payment using telephone banking. So, Im 
not persuaded that Santander was wrong to apply the charge in the first place. I havent 
seen evidence of a direct financial loss to G. So, as Santander has already refunded the 
charge as a gesture of goodwill, I dont consider an additional award of compensation is 
justified in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman