DRN-3617046
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the service Lloyds Bank PLC provided on two separate issues. On 
both occasions she says the bank was unhelpful, and she felt neglected. 
What happened
In 2018 Miss M visited one of the banks branches to close her late mothers account. She 
found the service to be uncaring, cold and cruel. She was given no information about its 
bereavement team.
In January 2022 Miss M tried to switch her account to a different bank but could not. It 
transpired the account had been closed in November 2021 as it had not been used for over 
15 years. It had a balance of £1.20. Miss M had not reactivated the account following a letter 
the bank sent her about this in July 2021. But she says she wasnt given proper information 
on how to reactivate her account, such as having to go into a branch. Miss M also said she 
couldnt get through to the switching team for months. 
Miss M complained to Lloyds about both issues in January 2022. It said as it had no records 
from the meeting in 2018 it could not review what had happened, but it apologised if Miss M 
felt the advisor wasnt caring. It explained the account switch failed as the account was not 
active - it explained it had closed Miss Ms account after she didnt respond to its letter about 
reactivating the account. It told Miss M the balance could be reclaimed via a website. And it 
said it cant agree that Miss M would have been unable to get through to its switching team 
for over seven months.
Unhappy with this reply Miss M brought her complaint to this service. She explained she has 
lost both her parents, her brother and many other family members and friends in recent 
years. She provided medical evidence showing that the multiple bereavements have caused 
her significant anxiety and depression, and that she has found it very difficult to deal with all 
the related administration.  
Our investigator upheld Miss Ms complaint in part. He said he could not comment on the 
2018 meeting as there were no records or meeting notes to review. He found Lloyds had 
followed the right process when closing Miss Ms dormant account, but he felt it should have 
done more to help her once it became aware of her circumstances. He also said it wasnt an 
error that the switch failed as the account was by that stage no longer active. He felt once 
Lloyds became aware of Miss Ms circumstances, when she complained, it could have 
offered more support. He asked Lloyds to help Miss M recover the £1.20 and pay £50 
compensation for the distress caused. 
Lloyds agreed to pay Miss M £51.20. Miss M asked for an ombudsmans review. She sent in 
documents she felt evidenced she had an appointment in the branch in 2018. She said £50 
is an insult for the misinformation, cruelty and incompetence Lloyds has shown at the worst 
time in her life.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, contradictory or inconclusive (as some of it is here) I 
have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what 
I think is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I have 
listened to all the call recordings on file and thought carefully about all of Miss Ms 
submissions to this service. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution 
service, and as our rules allow, I will comment here on the issues I find to be material to the 
outcome of Miss Ms complaint. 
I am upholding Miss Ms complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The service and support in the branch, 2018
I think there is maybe some confusion around this part of the complaint. The investigator did 
not doubt that Miss M went into a branch to close her late mothers account. And I can see 
she was very unhappy with the service she received. Im sure what Miss M has told us is her 
honest recollection of the branch visit. But there are no meeting notes, nor any 
contemporaneous record of Miss Ms dissatisfaction, that I can review to understand what 
happened. But there is no doubt that the appointment happened. Indeed Lloyds has more 
recently located system notes that confirm the date of appointment and that Miss M brought 
in her late mothers death certificate. 
However, this alone does not allow me to understand what happened at that meeting and 
whether Miss Ms recollections fairly reflect the banks conduct. I have to take into account 
that the meeting took place some years at a very distressing time for Miss M and that might 
impact what she recalls. So based on the available evidence I cant fairly conclude with any 
certainty that Lloyds acted inappropriately. I note it has apologised already to Miss M if 
anything the adviser did or said seemed uncaring. This is a reasonable response in the 
circumstances. Miss M also said the bank should have put her in touch with its bereavement 
team when she closed her late mothers account. That team was very helpful after she 
complained. But equally, Miss M does recall Lloyds offered to set up a follow-up 
appointment, this didnt work for her given her circumstances at the time. I can understand 
that, but it does evidence Lloyds offered further assistance. 
The dormant account and failed switch request, 2021-2022
Miss M is unhappy that Lloyds did not make it clear enough what she had to do to reactivate 
her account. Lloyds says it wrote to Miss M telling her that as she hadnt used her account 
for some years it would be marked dormant, and she should go into a branch to have it 
reactivated. It then sent another letter. The template for this, that I have seen, shows this 
asked for the attached slip and two forms of id to be returned by a set date, in a pre-paid 
envelope, to keep the account open. It explains what will happen if there is no response. So I 
think Miss M was fully informed. It follows that as Miss Ms account was closed when she 
then tried to use the switching service her request failed. Miss M also says she tried to call 
the switching team over a number of months, Lloyds disagrees she would have been unable 
to get through for such a prolonged period of time. In this context and as I have seen no 
evidence of the repeated failed calls I cant fairly conclude there was a service failing on 
Lloyds part.  So I find no bank errors in respect of this part of Miss Ms complaint.
Putting things rightI can appreciate why Miss M feels £50 is no compensation for all she has suffered. I have 
listened carefully to the call recording when she first came to this service and I heard how 
hard things have been for her in recent years. I am very sorry about what she has been 
through.
But I can only consider the impact of any errors Lloyds made in the award I make. For the 
reasons set out above I have found that there is no evidence of any errors in how it handled 
her dormant account and her requested account switch. It was only at the point Miss M 
complained to Lloyds that it became aware of her circumstances so I can only assess 
whether I think it should have done more to support her from that point onwards. She agrees 
the bereavement team was supportive once she had that contact.  But Lloyds could have 
offered to help reclaim the funds it moved out of her dormant account. It is for the distress 
and inconvenience this caused that Lloyds has agreed to pay £50  plus the value of the 
funds it transferred out. I find this to be fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Lloyds must pay Miss M £51.20 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ms complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman