DRN-3163907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P booked a holiday abroad in November 2019. They were due to travel on 20
March 2020. They had the benefit of an annual premier multi-trip travel insurance policy
which had been renewed in April 2019 but upgraded in November 2019 (the policy), around
the time they booked their holiday. The policy was underwritten by URV.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised UK citizens
against all but essential international travel due to the global Covid-19 pandemic. And Mr
and Mrs Ps holiday was cancelled on 18 March 2020. They subsequently made a claim on
the policy to cover their irrecoverable losses.
URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy for
cancellation due to a change in FCO advice.
Mr and Mrs P complained to URV but it maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained to our Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She thought it
wasnt fair that Mr and Mrs P were left in a position where they werent covered if they
travelled against FCO advice, but also not covered if they cancelled their trip. She
recommended URV pay the claim upon receipt of appropriate evidence in line with the policy
terms. She also recommended URV pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the
outstanding amount. 
URV didnt agree. So, Mr and Mrs Ps complaint was passed to me to look at everything 
afresh to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 18 October 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending to
uphold this complaint. An extract of which appears below:
Industry rules and guidance:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says insurers should handle claims promptly and
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The relevant documentation:
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information
Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain
information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks.
The IPID which URV has more recently provided as relating to Mr and Mrs Ps policy says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your
destination.
This is located on page 1, under the heading: are there any restrictions on cover?.
But the IPID doesnt form part of the contract between Mr and Mrs P and URV. The IPID
specifically says: the following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of
the contract which can be found in your policy documentation.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps policy set out (at page 6) incidents that are and
arent covered if Mr and Mrs P are unbale to go on their trip.
It says that cover is in place if any of the following happened:
-you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person 
you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
-your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
-you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
-your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative 
accommodation is not available;
-you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
-you, or a travelling companion as members of HM forces had your leave orders 
cancelled.
Mr and Mrs Ps trip was cancelled because the FCO had advised against all but essential
travel abroad  which included to their intended destination. And this isnt one of the specific,
listed insured events for which cancellation cover is provided under the policy. So, Mr and
Mrs Ps claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy.
However, Ive considered whether it would, nonetheless, be fair and reasonable in the
overall circumstances of this case, to direct URV to treat this as an insured event here -
taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law.
If a consumer is left in a position where there is no cover if they cancel their holiday due to a
change in FCO advice but also has no cover under the policy if they go ahead and travel
against FCO advice  and if I didnt think the policy wording was clear and transparent about
this  then I might think it would be fair and reasonable for an insurer to consider a claim
regardless. But I dont think this was the situation Mr and Mrs P were in.
As there is no exclusion for travelling against FCO advice contained in the actual terms
and conditions of the policy, this exclusion doesnt form part of their contract. So, I dont
think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that Mr and Mrs P would have had no
cover under the policy if theyd gone ahead and travelled against FCO advice (in the
event that this had even been possible).
Ive considered the other sections of the policy, but I dont think the policy provides any
cover for the circumstances Mr and Mrs P found themselves in.
Response to my provisional decisionI gave the parties an opportunity to reply. 
URV didnt respond. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with my provisional decision and raised a 
number of points in reply. In summary they said:
-The country they were due to travel had closed its borders and it wouldnt have been 
possible to fly there;
-The purpose of travel insurance is to protect the policyholder from the unforeseen 
and they believed it covered them if their trip was cancelled;
-It would be fair and reasonable for URV to cover the costs of their unused trip;
-At the time Mr and Mrs P upgraded the policy in November 2019, Covid-19 wasnt on 
anyones radar;
-Their trip had to be cancelled due to a number of issues; including: the risk to health, 
the real possibility of being stranded abroad due to possible flight cancellations, and 
the UK Government banning all non-essential travel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes all points Mr and Mrs P have raised in response to my provisional decision. 
And having done so, I dont uphold their complaint. I know this will be very disappointing for 
Mr and Mrs P, particularly given the value of their claim. 
However, travel insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. The terms and conditions of 
the policy set out whats covered.
I can of course understand why Mr and Mrs P didnt travel as planned on or around 20 
March 2020. And I also understand what they say about being unable to enter the country 
they intended to travel, even if they were inclined to travel against the FCO advice and had 
been able to find another way to travel there. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision, even if Covid-19 wasnt in the parties 
contemplation at the time Mr and Mrs P upgraded the policy in November 2019, the reason 
why Mr and Mrs Ps trip was cancelled isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for 
which cancellation cover is provided under the policy. So, Mr and Mrs Ps claim isnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of the policy.
I also considered whether it would, nonetheless, be fair and reasonable in the
overall circumstances of this case, to direct URV to treat this as an insured event here -
taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law. And for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision, I dont think that would be fair and reasonable.
So, for these reasons and those already in my provisional decision  an extract of which is 
set out above - I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman