DRN-1394335
 
The complaint
Miss J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) 
wont refund the cost of a mattress she paid for using her American Express credit card. She 
says the mattress wasnt fit for purpose or of satisfactory quality when supplied, contrary to 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015. She brings her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.  
What happened
Miss J says that she spent some time investigating different types of mattress at different 
branches of a well known high street mattress retailer (R). In January 2019 she selected a 
particular type of mattress and placed her order. She paid for it using her American Express 
credit card.
The mattress was delivered to Miss J in February 2019. Miss J immediately complained 
about the mattress to R. She said the mattress supplied was nothing like the same type she 
had tested in Rs shops. It sagged in the middle and was most uncomfortable, to the extent 
that using it was affecting her health.
R arranged for an independent technician from the Furniture Industry Research Association 
(FIRA) to come to her house and inspect the mattress. However, the report he issued said 
he could find nothing wrong with the mattress. R said she could arrange her own inspection, 
which she would have to pay for, or could exchange the mattress after 40 days by paying 
10% of the mattress cost.
Miss J felt she shouldnt have to pay to get the unsatisfactory mattress dealt with. So she 
complained to American Express under section 75. She asked it to arrange for her to be 
provided with the comfortable mattress she thought she was buying.
Initially American Express employed a charge back to Rs bank on the ground that the 
mattress was defective or not as described. However, R resisted this on the basis that the 
FIRA report had found no fault with the mattress. American Express then considered Miss 
Js claim under section 75 as she had asked, and paid her £75 compensation for its delay in 
doing so.
Section 75 provides that where a credit card is used to pay for goods or services the card 
provider can be equally responsible with the provider of the goods or services for any breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. In this case, American Express said Miss J clearly had 
concerns about the mattress. But nothing she had said amounted to sufficient evidence of a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by R.
American Express had suggested that Miss J obtain her own independent report on the 
mattress, but she wasnt prepared to do this. In the absence of this, there was the report 
from FIRA, which said there was nothing wrong with the mattress. American Express had tried to engage with R to discuss the complaint, but it had failed to respond. So in these 
circumstances, American Express was unable to uphold her claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said she could 
only recommend that American Express do something if she was satisfied that there was 
something wrong with the mattress that amounted to a breach of contract by R. However 
there was no evidence to support this. 
Miss J was clearly unhappy with the mattress. But the only independent evidence on its 
condition was the FIRA report, which found no faults with it. So the investigator said she 
couldnt ask American Express to take any further action.
Miss J responded to say, in summary, that:
although the mattress that was delivered was the same type as she had inspected in 
Rs showroom, it didnt seem to be in the same condition;
in the eleven months of owning the mattress she had been able to sleep on it for only 
one month;
American Express should have dealt with her section 75 claim at the outset, and the 
£75 compensation for its delay was inadequate compensation for the effect on her 
health;
she didnt think the FIRA inspector carried out a competent inspection, and she didnt 
have the funds to commission a second inspection; and
American Express shouldnt have allowed itself to be fobbed off by R.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After this complaint was passed to me, Miss J said a second report had been commissioned 
by R from a different independent furniture expert whom Ill call H. Miss R said that Hs 
technician told her he could clearly see the dip in the mattress that she was complaining 
about. Miss J said she was waiting to see Hs written report.
I have now been supplied with a copy of Hs report. The technician didnt find any faults with 
the mattress. He said the mattress and base werent purchased together. His report says:
I first put my attention to the base and this was very supportive. I then carried out multiple 
pressure tests and lay tests and the mattress was fully responding. The settlement test 
showed within manufacturers tolerance at 20 and 22mm.
In my professional opinion this is an invalid claim because the mattress was responding and 
within tolerance with the settlement.
Miss J had also complained previously that she found a clump of hair within the mattress, 
which she said was evidence that the mattress wasnt new when supplied to her but had 
been used by some else. The technician says he was shown this hair and in his opinion it 
was Miss Js hair.
Two independent reports have now concluded that Miss Js mattress isnt faulty. And the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt support Miss Js contention that the mattress had been used 
before it was delivered to her.On the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded that there was a breach of contract by R 
for which I can hold American Express responsible under section 75.
American Express should have pursued a claim against R under section 75 from the outset, 
because this is what Miss J asked it to do. However, I think the £75 it paid her was 
reasonable compensation for initially attempting a chargeback instead.
Miss J says American Express didnt do enough to get R to consider her complaint further. 
However there is only so much a credit provider can do if a supplier refuses to engage. 
American Express says it made three written requests to R, and had a further phone 
conversation with it, without success.
All in all, I think American Express has acted reasonably in dealing with Miss Js complaint, 
and I dont require it to do anything more.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against American 
Express Services Europe Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman