DRN-3716913
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have unfairly declined 
his claim under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In May 2013, Mr W and his wife (Mrs W) purchased holiday club points  these were to be 
used as part of a points-based membership for holiday accommodation. The total cost was 
£11,700 and Mr W paid in part using his credit card with Barclays. (While there are many 
other purchases with the same supplier, my understanding is that Mr W is only complaining 
about the purchase Ive specified.)
Mr W says the product was misrepresented and that the supplier has breached the contract. 
So, in 2017 he raised a claim with Barclays under s.75 CCA, via a professional 
representative. Mr W has said:
They had existing points under this membership which they wanted to relinquish. 
Mr W says they were told the only way to exit this was to purchase more points, they 
would then be able to relinquish them in five years.
There was no fixed accommodation or specified time they could use it.
The agreement is null and void because its a perpetual contract which is illegal 
under Spanish Law.
Barclays declined Mr Ws claim, in summary it said:
Mr W hadnt provided any evidence that he has been unable to access his points or 
use them.
It didnt think Mr W had shown there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, noting verbal representations are difficult to prove.
It awarded £75 compensation for customer service issues in handling Mr Ws claim.
When Mr W complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They 
said they didnt think sufficient evidence had been provided to support a claim under 
s.75 CCA and therefore that Barclays had declined the claim fairly.
Mr W didnt accept these findings and asked our service to comment on the legality of the 
agreement in light of the Spanish court judgement he had referenced.
The complaint was passed to me to consider and I issued my provisional decision on 
30 June 2022 explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint.
Mr Ws representative explained they were seeking legal advice and so asked for additional 
time to respond  they have now provided their counsels submission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr W, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive considered whether Barclays has fairly declined Mr Ws claim under s.75 CCA based on 
the reasons put forward under both misrepresentation and breach of contract. I think it has 
and Ill explain why:
In relation to Mr Ws available accommodation and the fact that the points werent 
tied to any specific dates - this is something that Mr W would have been aware of 
given his previous experience using this product. He hasnt raised any specific issues 
in relation to his bookings and so I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong in 
concluding this aspect of his purchase was unlikely to have been misrepresented.
Mr W says he was convinced to make this purchase because he was told this was 
the only way to exit the membership and end any continuing obligations he had in 
relation to his existing points. I havent seen any evidence to support Mr Ws 
assertion that he would be able to exit the agreement after five years, so I think it was 
fair for Barclays to say this wouldnt have constituted a misrepresentation or breach 
of contract. I note that at the time of the claim this five-year period hadnt passed.
Mr W has referenced a Spanish court judgement and says this type of agreement is 
illegal under Spanish Law. He therefore thinks the agreement is null and void and 
therefore the credit agreement also should never have existed. Although this 
agreement was signed while Mr and Mrs W were in Spain, theres no evidence that 
the agreement is subject to Spanish Law. I havent been provided with a copy of 
Mr and Mrs Ws full purchase agreement, but from what Ive seen in others with this 
supplier, this agreement is likely to be subject to the laws of the Republic of Ireland 
with elements covered by English Law. I dont think that the Spanish judgment I have 
been asked to consider helps me determine the outcome of Mr Ws claim. That 
judgment dealt with a different timeshare agreement, governed by a different legal 
jurisdiction. I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude this agreement is 
null and void.
I havent commented on the £75 compensation awarded as Mr W doesnt appear to have 
complained about this.
Ive reviewed the general submissions on behalf of complainants document provided by 
Mr Ws representatives legal counsel. Having done so, I dont think the arguments raised 
are relevant to this complaint. I dont think it would be helpful for me to explain point by point 
why the generic arguments raised in this 36-page document arent relevant to the complaint 
thats actually been raised, but the main issues are as follows:The document focuses mainly on restricted use credit agreements taken out at the 
point of sale, and the credit broking requirements / lenders responsibilities in relation 
to those type of loans. However, this complaint relates to a payment Mr W made 
using his pre-existing credit card account.
The document also refers to the fairness of the purchase agreement terms in general 
and whether an unfair relationship is present for the purposes of s.140A CCA. But 
these issues havent been raised with Barclays and dont form part of this complaint.
So, I cant see how these submissions help me determine the outcome of Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman