DRN-1094287
The complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy alongside an Egg branded credit card.
What happened
In June 2010 Miss L applied for a credit card over the internet. At the same time, Miss L was 
sold a PPI policy. The cost of the policy was charged to the account, so Miss L would pay 
this extra cost, with interest, in line with the account's terms and conditions.
Miss L says the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didn't think Miss L's complaint about the sale of 
the policy should be upheld. Miss L didn't agree with the adjudicator. The complaint has 
been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Miss L was given a choice about buying the policy. 
Miss L has told us that at no point was the optionality of the policy made clear during the 
sale of the credit card. She says she wasn't given a chance to opt out of the product through 
a "no" option. Her representatives say that if the policy's optional nature had been made 
clear, it's clear that she would have declined the policy. I've thought about what Miss L has 
said alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Barclays has sent us screen shots showing its online sales process. I think this is likely to be 
representative of what Miss L saw at the time. I see that to apply for PPI, Miss L had to 
complete a section of the application headed "Do you want Card Repayment Protection?"
At the end of this section Miss L was given two options. The first option was labelled "yes, I 
would like to add Card Repayment Protection insurance to my Egg card". The second option 
was selected "no I do not wish to add Card Repayment Protection insurance to my Egg 
card". I also see that just above these two options is the text
"Card Repayment Protection is an optional insurance and is not required to maintain 
your credit card. Full policy information including further price information can be found 
in the important insurance information below."For this reason, although Miss L says she didn't know the policy was optional, I think it's 
more likely that she knew she had a choice about buying the policy - and chose to buy it.
The sale of the policy took place online, so I don't think the sale followed a tailored 
recommendation to buy the product. This means the seller didn't need to check the policy 
was right for Miss L - but it did still have to give Miss L the information she'd need to work 
out whether she wanted the policy.
It's possible the information Barclays gave Miss L about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. But Miss L chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what I've seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesn't look like she was 
affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it looks like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
So I don't think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
This means Barclays doesn't need to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because:
    Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss L about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss 
L, that was unfair. 
    To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesn't need to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman