DRN-3585058
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that TSB Bank Plc closed their bank account in error. And that, 
because of this, their travel insurance benefit was cancelled which resulted in a claim being 
declined by the insurance provider. 
Mr and Mrs P have been represented by a third-party but, for ease of reference, Ill refer to 
them only. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr and Mrs P held a fee-paying current account (the account) with TSB that provided a 
travel insurance benefit (travel insurance). They also paid an additional fee to upgrade their 
travel insurance. This provided additional cover for Mr Ps medical conditions, extended the 
maximum trip duration and also waived claim excess. 
TSB emailed Mr and Mrs P in December 2020 requesting they provide identification 
documents. As they didnt hear back, TSB wrote to Mr and Mrs P in January 2021 saying 
their account would be closed on 26 March 2021. Mr and Mrs P were outside of the country 
at the time. But upon returning to the UK and receiving the letter, they contacted TSB about 
it on 1 March 2021. The relevant identification documents were then sent to TSB the same 
day. TSB received the documents but they were overlooked and so the account was closed. 
As the account couldnt be re-opened, due to TSB no longer offering it, Mr and Mrs P visited 
a TSB branch to open a new fee free bank account on 8 April 2021. 
Mrs P contacted the TSB travel helpline  operated by the insurance provider  on 
9 April 2021 enquiring about how the closure of the account would affect their travel 
insurance. The agent explained to Mrs P that there wouldnt be any travel insurance if the 
account was cancelled. But TSB would inform the insurer and a pro rata refund would be 
calculated and automatically returned to them. 
Mr and Mrs Ps personal assistant called the helpline on 28 June 2021 to query whether they 
would be covered if they travelled to India, which was deemed a red country on the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) website. The agent explained that if 
Mr and Mrs P were travelling for essential purposes they would be covered under the terms 
of the policy. But, in the event of a claim, they may need to provide evidence of the nature of 
the trip.
Mr and Mrs P flew to India on 3 July 2021. Unfortunately, Mr P fell ill and was admitted to 
hospital on 7 July 2021. A claim was submitted by Mr and Mrs P to the insurer.
On 10 July 2021 Mr and Mrs P received a renewal letter for their travel insurance upgrade. 
They then received a letter four days later saying, following the closure of your bank 
account we confirm weve cancelled your travel insurance upgrades with effects from 26 
March 2021. A refund was sent to Mr and Mrs P by cheque. 
The claim was declined by the insurer as, due to the account being closed, no cover was in 
place at the point of travel. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to TSB about the closure of their account. TSB initially didnt think 
theyd closed the account in error as they said, although they received an email from Mr and 
Mrs P on 1 March 2021 with the identification documents, it didnt include everything they 
needed to prevent the account being closed (although it was in fact sufficient). TSB 
apologised for not responding to the email though and paid £50 in compensation. 
The complaint was referred to our service. TSB accepted they closed the account in error as 
they had received the identification documents needed. So, they offered a further £100 
compensation to Mr and Mrs P. TSB later increased this to £350 in total for what happened 
and, in short, theyve said:
They accept they made an error in closing thek account. It couldnt be reopened as 
they no longer offer that type of account. Mr and Mrs P were however able to open 
an account with any service provider that did offer these benefits. Instead, they chose 
to open the fee free bank account.
The account wasnt free. Mr and Mrs P paid for the additional benefits provided and 
these charges stopped when the account was closed. And they were made aware in 
April 2021 that the account benefits had ceased. 
Although Mr and Mrs P have lost the benefit of the travel insurance, theyre no longer 
paying the account fee. They could have purchased travel insurance from an 
alternative provider. 
They accept Mr and Mrs P were inconvenienced by having to visit a branch to open 
the new account. 
Our investigator thought TSB should pay more compensation. In short, she said:
The claim likely wouldnt have been paid even if the account had not been closed in 
error and the travel insurance remained in place. This is because the FCDO advised 
against all but essential travel to the part of India Mr and Mrs P went to. And their 
personal assistant has confirmed they travelled to India so they could see their family 
before Mr P underwent surgery later that year in the UK. 
Although she understood Mr and Mrs Ps desire to see their family, as they hadnt 
seen them for 18 months, she didnt think this would be considered essential travel. 
Therefore, under the terms of the policy, wouldnt have been covered. 
She thought TSBs offer of compensation acknowledged the loss of the account and 
trouble caused, but it didnt account for the loss of travel insurance going forward 
(which, under the account, ran until their 80th birthdays). Given its unclear whether 
Mr and Mrs P will travel again and what the cost of future insurance might be, the 
simplest resolution would be for TSB to pay a further amount in recognition of this.
She thought £500 extra, totaling £850, was fair. 
TSB agreed to pay the increase in compensation. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, they 
added:
The compensation amount isnt enough as it doesnt cover the cost of replacement 
travel insurance. Theyre also thousands of pounds out of pocket due to the claim not 
being paid. They want TSB to pay the medical bills or compensation to offset against 
it, which is about £20,000.
Mr P was due to have a serious operation on his knee that carried risks, so wanted to 
see family beforehand as they couldnt come to the UK. They consider the travel was 
essential.
Mr P was shielding at the time of the account closure but was required to go into the branch to set up the new account due to TSBs error.
TSB havent been fair and have got off lightly as result of their error. 
Before I go on to explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that Im 
only looking at the actions of TSB here. And so, Im not consider the insurers role in 
declining the claim. That has been considered as a separate complaint by the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will have been a very difficult time for Mr and Mrs P following Mr Ps ill health. 
Im sympathetic to their circumstances and the financial impact the declined claim has had 
on them. I therefore want to reassure Mr and Mrs P that Ive carefully considered everything 
theyve said. But, for similar reasons to that of our investigator, I think the £850 
compensation is fair. Ill explain why. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs Ps account was closed in error by TSB. And because of 
this, in line with the policy terms, the travel insurance benefit was cancelled. Unfortunately, it 
seems there was a technical issue with the data feed between TSB and the insurer which 
meant the automatic cancellation letters for the travel insurance werent sent in March 2021. 
They were only sent when the insurer became aware the account was closed after the claim 
was submitted. 
It seems though that Mrs P was informed in April 2021 that there wouldnt be any travel 
insurance if the account was cancelled. Given Mrs P was aware the account had been 
closed, as she and her husband had to visit the branch to set up a new account, it could be 
argued that Mrs P ought to have known the travel insurance was no longer in place. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt however receive written confirmation that their travel insurance was 
cancelled, or the refund of premiums, prior to travelling due to the technical issue as they 
were told they would. Their personal assistant also provided policy details to the TSB 
helpline when she called them shortly before Mr and Mrs P travelled enquiring about 
whether they would be covered. I understand the agent didnt access the policy details but, 
instead, gave general information about whether any potential claim arising from travelling to 
India would be covered. The personal assistant wasnt told cover was no longer in place. 
Because of this, I think its possible that Mr and Mrs P may have genuinely thought their 
travel insurance remained in place prior to travelling. 
I have however considered that Mr and Mrs P travelled to India at a time when the FCDO 
advised against all but essential travel. And the policy terms say it doesnt cover:
Any claim if you travel against the advice of the FCDO or the government of any 
country to which you will travel, or where you do not follow any advice or measures 
put in place by any government or local authority in the UK or abroad, for example 
quarantine rules or curfews.
Mr and Mrs P feel their travel was essential as they wanted to see their family before Mr P 
underwent a serious operation. Ive thought about this and although I understand their 
reasons for wanting to see family, as they hadnt done so for some time and there were 
possible risks associated with the operation, I dont think this could reasonably be 
considered as essential travel. 
It follows that, even if the account hadnt been closed resulting in the cover being cancelled, I 
think its most likely the insurer wouldve declined the claim in any event. Because of this, I 
dont think I can fairly hold TSB responsible for the medical bills incurred by Mr and Mrs P.The closure of the bank account has undoubtedly caused trouble and upset to 
Mr and Mrs P. They were long standing customers of TSB and they found the travel 
insurance beneficial to them. As the account couldnt be reopened, this benefit is no longer 
available to them going forward. Im also mindful that they had to visit a local TSB branch 
while Mr P was shielding from Covid-19 to open the replacement bank account. I think this 
wouldve been both very worrying and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs P at the time.
Ive thought about what compensation would be fair here. I realise Mr and Mrs P feel the 
amount should be significantly more as theyve now incurred medical bills of about £20,000. 
As Ive said though, I dont think I can hold TSB responsible for that. I also understand 
Mr and Mrs P have said the amount recommended by our investigator doesnt sufficiently 
cover the cost of travel insurance going forward either. However, I think its worth noting that 
the travel insurance benefit wasnt free. Nor was it going to last indefinitely as it only ran up 
to their 80th birthdays (which wouldve been a few more years). There were also costs for 
the travel insurance - the account fee and the upgrade fee to ensure Mr Ps medical 
conditions were covered. The cost of upgrading cover annually meant it wasnt fixed and so, 
likely, going to increase considering Mr Ps health. Its therefore difficult to accurately predict 
the difference in cost between comparable replacement cover and if the existing policy had 
remained in place. Because of this, I likewise agree with our investigator that the fairest way 
to put things right is for TSB to pay an increased compensation figure to recognise this.
Taking this into account as well the impact of the account closure  which includes the 
inconvenience of opening a new account, loss of access to funds during this time and the 
worry caused  I think £850 is a reasonable amount. I know Mr and Mrs P may feel TSB 
have gotten off lightly but, for the above reasons, I think this is a fair outcome in the overall 
circumstances of their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct TSB Bank Plc Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs P £850 in total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman