DRN-4019308
The complaint
Mr A has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) avoided his buildings insurance 
policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr A took out a buildings insurance policy with AXA online. Mr A later had a fire at his home. 
So, he contacted AXA to make a claim. AXA considered the claim and said Mr A had 
answered the questions it asked about the number of bedrooms at the property and the 
number of people who lived there incorrectly. It considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy and decline the claim.
When Mr A complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and that it was fair to decide it was careless. 
So, she said it was reasonable for AXA to avoid the policy and decline the claim.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision, 
including because he said it wasnt fair to say the property had seven bedrooms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out the policy online because he said the property had four bedrooms, when it had 
seven. 
Ive looked at what Mr A was asked when he took out the policy. The quote asked how many 
rooms were in the property. For bedrooms, it said Include any rooms that were originally 
built as bedrooms and any that have been converted for another use, e.g. an office or study. 
Mr A needed to give a figure for the number of bedrooms. Mr A said there were four 
bedrooms. AXA provided the online sales listing for the property, which showed it was sold 
as a seven bedroom house. Ive also seen the mortgage report, which listed it as a seven 
bedroom property. Im aware Mr As representative has said that two of the rooms werent 
originally built as bedrooms and that they were built as an office and store. However, I think 
there is sufficient evidence to show that it was a seven bedroom property and that Mr A 
answered the question incorrectly.
AXA has provided its underwriting criteria, which showed that if Mr A had said there were 
seven bedrooms, it wouldnt have provided a policy. This means Im satisfied Mr As 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
AXA decided it was a careless misrepresentation, which I think was fair in the 
circumstances. Ive looked at the actions AXA can take in accordance with CIDRA. AXA has 
shown that it wouldnt have offered the policy. This meant it could avoid the policy from the 
point of misrepresentation, which was when the policy was first taken out. Ive also seen 
evidence that AXA refunded the premium, which it was required to do for a careless 
misrepresentation. AXA was also entitled not to deal with any claims, which meant it didnt 
need to deal with the fire claim. So, I think the actions AXA took were in line with CIDRA.
Im aware Mr As representative has said Mr A has been able to obtain another policy 
underwritten by AXA which he argued showed AXA would have offered a policy even if Mr A 
had declared a higher number of bedrooms. I note that AXA didnt sell Mr A the policy. Im 
also satisfied AXA has shown it correctly applied its underwriting criteria for the policy that 
was avoided.
Having considered all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint. I think it was reasonable for 
AXA to decide Mr A had made a misrepresentation and for it to avoid the policy and not deal 
with the claim. As a result, I dont require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman