DRN-1770364
The complaint
Mr R has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim he made
under his motor insurance policy held with it.
What happened
Mr R attempted to make a claim under his motor insurance held with UKI. He claimed that
damage had been caused to the convertible roof of his car following water damage to the
cars electrics.
UKI arranged for an engineer to look at Mr Rs car and as a result of the engineers
inspection decided to decline the claim. UKI explained that it initially thought water had got
into the car as a result of poor maintenance, and wear and tear over a period of time, and
this isnt covered under Mr Rs policy. However, it did offer to pay Mr R £250 compensation
for the delay in responding to his complaint.
Our Investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and thought UKI had acted unfairly. He said
UKI should reconsider the claim and pay Mr R an additional £300 compensation for the
trouble and upset it had caused.
UKI didnt agree with our Investigators view so this complaint was passed to me to
decide.
In my provisional decision sent in January 2021 I said:
Mr R explained that on the date of the incident (28 July 2019) whilst parked his car alarm
was sounding, the windows were continuously moving up and down, and the brake lights
were turning on and off. The roof motors were sounding while the roof was in its locked
position and two loud bangs were heard.
UKI has declined Mr Rs claim for the reason that the claim circumstances arent covered by
the policy terms and conditions. It has told us that Mr Rs car hadnt been properly
maintained and as such water had entered the car due to wear and tear that had caused the
resulting damage.
UKI has since explained that it believes the damage to have been caused by a childrens toy
(nerf bullet) blocking a drainage area, and that this isnt covered by the policy either.
UKI has relied on the comments of its engineer and the policy terms to decline Mr Rs claim.
The main points made by UKI to decline Mr Rs claim are:
corrosion of the electrical unit showed evidence of water entering the car over a long 
period of time
the handles used to manoeuvre the roof were frayed and worn
poor maintenance of the car (clearing of debris) has caused the drainage system to 
become blocked and to overflow
As well as the information provided to us when the complaint came to our service Mr R has
provided further evidence which UKI has had a chance to respond to. 
corrosion of electrical unit 
In response to UKIs view on this Mr R has provided comments from a corrosion expert. The
comments state:
when there is an accidental water or liquid (Electrolyte) ingress to the circuit board
compartment, the electrolyte immediately begins to accelerate the corrosion of the immersed
metallic components which leads to the failure of the circuit board. The corrosion rate of the
board is accelerated by salts (if any) on the board dissolved in water & also power from the
battery/source to the card in an electrolyte.
With the above in mind it appears the corrosion to the electrical panel could have happened
quickly and that this doesnt show conclusively that water was entering Mr Rs car over a 
period of time.
Worn and frayed handles
I have looked at the photos of these handles alongside comments from UKIs engineer and
more recent information provided by Mr R. It appears the roof of the car is mechanical and is
operated by pressing a button in the car to close the roof, which is then clipped in place by
the user with a plastic handle.
The handles described and photographed by UKIs engineer are not those used in the
operation of opening and closing the roof. The handles appear to be those used during the
service of the car by a garage. Mr R has also since had the roof replaced at his own
expense and sent in images of the new roof which also show these straps in a similar
condition.
I dont think the condition of the handles have any bearing on the claim as they are not used
to secure the roof.
poor maintenance
Mr R purchased his car with a full service in November 2018. No issues were present, and
the MOT history appears to show the car to be in good condition.
In March 2019 a main dealer health check was carried out on the car where no issues were
present in relation to water ingress.
I cannot find that overall Mr Rs car has not been maintained correctly in general.
UKI has said that the drainage channels should have been cleared every time the car is
washed so even though the main dealer has said they would expect this to be done during a
service, the manual should supersede the statement.
Ive thought about what UKI has said alongside the car itself. The channels on this car
consist of a small gap of around 5mm at the bottom of the front and back of the car
windscreens. Beneath this gap there are hoppers that collect and redirect the water out of
the car. The accessible part of this system is the small gap. From the information available I
have not seen that this area was blocked or in need of clearing. So again, I dont think this
has any bearing on Mr Rs claim.
UKI has now confirmed that it believes the cause of the damage to have been a childs toy(nerf bullet) being stuck in the drains channel which is not covered by the policy.
I have considered what UKI have said but I dont believe the nerf bullet would have fit
between the drainage gaps leading to the hopper which overflowed causing the damage,
and therefore it must have entered this area in another way, most likely when the roof was
down and the area the object could enter through was increased.
UKI has said that on the day of the incident there was moderate and not significant rainfall
and so its possible that water entered the car over time. But I dont think the evidence
provided suggests an ongoing, worsening issue and it hasnt been shown what amount of
water would have caused the damage, be it moderate or significant.
From the evidence available I think the damage to Mr Rs car happened as a result or a
suddenly, and the event was unforeseen. I am also unable to find that the event was caused
by Mr Rs neglect of the car or by wear and tear. So, I think the damage should be covered
under the accident damage section of his policy. 
I gave both Mr R and UKI time to respond to my provisional decision with further information, 
but neither side provided anything new.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side responded with anything new for me to consider I see no reason to change 
my decision from that outlined above. 
Putting things right
To put things right UK Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr R an additional £300 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused
pay Mr Rs claim less any applicable excesses. It should reimburse Mr R for the 
repairs he has had carried out in relation to the damage plus 8% simple interest from 
the date any invoices were paid to the date it makes the payment
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require UK Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what 
Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman