DRN-2277576
The complaint
Miss T complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have unfairly turned 
down a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss T took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands. When doing so she let 
Red Sands know her pet had a pre-existing condition which was an auto-immune disease. 
She was asked if shed taken her pet to the vets for any other conditions  and said no she 
hadnt. 
In May 2020 her pet had been experiencing vomiting and diarrhoea, so Miss T had taken her 
to a vets for treatment and then asked Red Sands to cover the cost of it.
Miss T and Red Sands had some back and forth while Red Sands were assessing the claim. 
After Red Sands turned it down Miss Ts vet got in touch with Red Sands and said they 
didnt believe the claim was linked to the auto-immune disease, as they always take this into 
account when seeing Miss Ts pet. The vets mentioned Miss Ts pet had eaten part of a 
magpie.
Red Sands reconsidered the complaint and having done so said they wouldnt meet it. They 
listed out six different instances of Miss Ts pet having had vomiting and diarrhoea  once in 
2017, and the remaining five times in the months leading up to the policy starting in 
June 2019.
Miss T complained about this decision, feeling like her vets opinion hadnt been taken into 
account  and after Red Sands reiterated their decision to turn down the claim she asked us 
to look into things.
One of our investigators did so and having considered everything he felt Red Sands had 
acted fairly because Miss Ts pet had shown clinical signs of illness prior to the policy 
starting.
Miss T didnt accept this. She said she felt her side hadnt been considered or her vets 
opinion had been taken into account. She says Red Sands had initially turned down her 
claim as related to the auto-immune disease  and if the vet could put in writing it didnt 
relate to this, then theyd pay the claim. After the vet did this, then Red Sands referred to the 
2017 instance to say this was a pre-existing condition to deny the claim  and her vets were 
very shocked. Miss T feels Red Sands are being very underhand, and thinks theyve acted 
very unfairly. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I believe Red Sands have acted fairly. I know this will come as a
disappointment to Miss T  shes told us she was unwell and Im sorry to hear that.
Itll help to explain that my role when considering a complaint about a declined insurance
claim is to assess whether the insurer has acted fairly in turning down the claim. So, to
decide this I need to look at the reasons Red Sands have given for turning down the claim
and determine whether thats fair under the policy terms Miss T took out.
Red Sands have explained theyve turned down Miss Ts claim because it was for a pre-
existing condition. Under the section of whats not covered Red Sands say they wont cover
any costs or claims for a pre-existing condition, or an illness that showed clinical signs
before the policy started.
Red Sands have provided a copy of notes from Miss Ts vets. These notes show that 
Miss Ts pet did go to the vets in 2017 for her pet having vomiting and diarrhoea  but also 
that in the months leading up to taking out the policy in June 2019 on five occasions as well.
There are vets notes that record in April 2009 once, and in May 2009 on four occasions, 
Miss Ts pet visits to the vets included concerns about vomiting and diarrhoea. Generally, Id 
expect the information recorded by the vets to be accurate, and I note that Miss T has 
expressed concerns over remembering the 2017 event. But shes not disputed the five 
events leading up to her taking out the policy  the last of which was around two weeks 
before taking it out.
Both parties agree Miss T was asked questions about the conditions and any reasons for her 
pet visiting the vets, and that information regarding vomiting and diarrhoea wasnt 
mentioned.
Taking into account the clinical history of Miss Ts pet, and the information that wasnt 
shared, I cant reasonably say Red Sands have unfairly turned down the claim.
I understand Miss T feels like her vets evidence hasnt been properly considered. 
Red Sands notes suggest they have considered it but didnt feel the claim could be met. Ive 
thought about it as well  obviously I cant disagree with Miss Ts vet about the diagnosis as 
Im not a medical expert. I do also note Miss Ts frustration that the claim was initially turned 
down for the auto-immune disease, that Red Sands told her the claim would be met, and 
that it then wasnt. But, my role is to consider whether, overall, the claim has been turned 
down fairly and for the reasons Ive explained above I think it has been.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman