DRN-3537913
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) recorded a fraud prevention marker against him. 
He says he was scammed into receiving and transferring money through his account.
Background
In July 2021, Mr Ps TSB account received transfers of £4,900.00 and £4,600.00 from third-
parties. The vast majority of these funds were immediately transferred to a crypto-currency 
account. Shortly afterwards, TSB received a notification from the bank which sent the 
payments stating that the payees of the funds had reported being victims of fraud. TSB 
reviewed Mr Ps account, decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker 
against Mr P.
Mr P was unhappy with TSBs actions and made a complaint. TSB looked at Mr Ps 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr P remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns. He didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that TSB has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr P is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that TSB must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ps account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
TSB also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr P was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr P allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ps complaint, I need to decide whether I think TSB had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ps account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that TSB has done this here. 
Id like to explain why in a little more detail.  
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ps 
account in July 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr P was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr P says that he didnt know he was getting involved in fraudulent activity. He says opened 
this account to trade in crypto-currency. Mr P goes on to say that he met someone on social 
media who promised him investment returns. Mr P says he questioned where the funds 
would be coming from but was persuaded it was legitimate. He has provided copies of the 
messages with the person who set everything up for him and said he was very nave in the 
whole situation.
Ive thought about what Mr P has said and considered the copies of the messages hes 
provided. Having done so, it difficult for me to accept that Mr P was as nave as hes 
suggesting here. Instead it seems to me that Mr P had clear concerns about the legitimacy 
of the what he was getting involved in. Indeed, there were a number of occasions where    
Mr P questioned whether he should continue (even deciding he wouldnt go ahead at one 
point) and he could have put a stop to what was going on but he decided to proceed 
anyway. 
I say this because the copies of the messages Mr P has provided indicate that he was 
initially reluctant to use his main account and he asked the person he was messaging, who 
told him he was free to walk away, which other bank he could open an account with to use. 
This in itself indicates that Mr P had concerns and it seems to me that he wanted to take 
steps to mitigate his own risk and exposure. 
The messages also show that Mr P said the prospect of retaining 35%-45% sounded too 
good to be true  especially as he wasnt being asked to invest any of his own money. 
Furthermore, Mr P also questioned what was going on once the funds came into his account 
and he didnt recognise the names of the payees of the funds. And Mr P even consulted on 
what he should say to unblock his account once TSB questioned him about the transactions 
coming into his account too. 
So Im satisfied that evidence Mr P has provided shows that he had a number of concerns 
about the legitimacy of the investment he was entering into and yet he decided to continue 
regardless. As this is the case, I think that Mr P proceeded in circumstances where he ought 
reasonably to have known that there was a significant risk he might have been allowing his 
account to be used for illegitimate purposes. I appreciate that Mr P may not have ended up 
benefitting from what happened. But this doesnt change the fact that he expected to benefit 
in circumstances where he ought reasonably to have realised that he may have been 
cooperating in illegitimate activity. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that TSB did have sufficient evidence 
to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ps account. And it was also reasonably entitled to 
conclude that it was more likely than not Mr P was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for TSB to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did and Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr P  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr P 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman