DRN-3993417
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the lack of service they received from Pareto Financial 
Planning Limited (Pareto) about their whole of life policy.
What happened
In 2009 Mr and Mrs D switched the servicing rights for their Skandia (now ReAssure) whole 
of life policy to Pareto. Mr and Mrs D became concerned they hadnt received any servicing 
or guidance from Pareto between 2009 and 2021 during which time their premiums had 
increased significantly. They complained to Pareto.
Pareto didnt uphold the complaint. It said;
Mr and Mrs D had paid an initial charge for the pension advice they received in 2009 
but didnt agree to pay any ongoing fee therefore they hadnt been provided with any 
service for their whole of life policy. 
Pareto had tried to contact Mr and Mrs D in 2020/2021 to check their situation and to 
see if the ongoing service would be right for them. It had gone beyond what was 
expected. 
Mr and Mrs D had received annual statements from Skandia/ReAssure which noted 
the premiums for the policy had increased as had the sum assured. But from 2016 
Mr and Mrs D declined the automatic increase option, without advice from Pareto, 
and the level of cover started to fall. Correspondence from Skandia/ReAssure had 
made Mr and Mrs D aware of their options. 
Mr and Mrs D werent happy with the outcome and brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said;
Mr and Mrs D had been offered an on-going service agreement with Pareto in 2009 
but didnt take up the offer. 
As Mr and Mrs D hadnt signed any agreement or contract with Pareto, it didnt have 
any regulatory or contractual obligation to contact Mr and Mrs D. The contact made 
in 2020 and 2021 were courtesy gestures. 
Since 2012 the policy no longer generated any commission on the increases for 
Pareto, but it had received renewal commission between 2015 and 2021 for renewal 
commission for increases prior to 2012. This was allowed under the rules at the time 
but didnt amount to an offer or agreement to provide Mr and Mrs D with any on-
going service or advice. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They 
provided further detailed submissions for my consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
As background to my findings, I note that Mr and Mrs D took out a whole of life policy with 
ReAsssures predecessor in 1990. This was an insurance policy that would cover their 
inheritance tax liability upon death. At that time, they chose the Automatic Increase Option 
in that the sum assured would increase by the greater of 10% or in line with the RPI. 
However, over the years the premiums increased to such a level they were proving too 
expensive for Mr and Mrs D. They removed the Automatic Increase Option in 2017.          
After a meeting with Pareto in 2021 Mr and Mrs D became concerned as to whether the 
policy was ever fit for purpose and the premiums for any new policy would be expensive. 
Any premiums they had already paid would be wasted.
The advice given on 11 August 2009
In bringing their complaint Mr and Mrs D have said that prior to Pareto assuming servicing 
rights for the whole of life policy they should have been advised by Pareto that it wasnt right 
for them if that was the case. Mr and Mrs D have said that any prudent adviser would have 
told them if the policy wasnt right for them. 
Pareto has told us that in 2009 Mr and Mrs D engaged Pareto to provide financial advice 
regarding their pensions only. For this advice Mr and Mrs D were charged an initial fee and 
signed an agreement for that advice on an ad-hoc basis. Pareto has said there wasnt a 
contract for its on-going advisory service.
Mr and Mrs D have said the whole of life policy was only a small part of the bigger picture of 
their finances but was an extremely important part of their IHT strategy. Looking through the 
21 page Report and Recommendation document from the time I note the whole of life policy 
was mentioned in one section but with an indication that further advice would be sought with 
regard to any potential inheritance tax liability (IHT). 
The main focus of the Report and Recommendation was that Mr and Mrs D were looking to 
switch the administrator of their SIPPs and purchase a commercial property. The objectives 
at the time were identified as being;
You are looking to switch SIPP trustee administrator
Transfer your assets over to your new administrator
Borrow up to the maximum 50% of the fund and buy part of your commercial property 
off yourself.
So, I am satisfied that at the time, Mr and Mrs D were specifically seeking advice about their 
pensions and not the whole of their financial affairs. But I do note that there is a section of 
the report entitled Aspects of your financial affairs not addressed but deemed important  it 
said;
I practice a holistic approach to financial planning. I believe it is my duty to ensure all 
aspects of a clients financial affairs have been addressed, even those potential 
shortfalls what may not be of immediate concern to the individual client concerned. 
To this end, I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the 
following. On further consideration, should you want to discuss any of the below in 
more detail please do not hesitate to contact me.
Inheritance Tax PlanningYour inheritance tax liability is approximately £1,200,000, you are aware of 
this and wish to discuss this at a further meeting.
Other issues are detailed such as retirement planning and long-term care etc. I think it was 
correct of the adviser to draw these other aspects of Mr and Mrs Ds financial circumstances 
to their attention in taking a holistic approach. And Mr and Mrs D have referred to the fact 
that the adviser recognised it was his duty to ensure that all of their financial affairs had 
been addressed. But I think it was made clear the aspects of Mr and Mrs Ds financial 
circumstances that were not addressed.
And the comment On further consideration, should you want to discuss any of the below in 
more detail please do not hesitate to contact me strongly indicates to me that the onus was 
on Mr and Mrs D to make contact with Pareto if they wanted any further advice over and 
above the ad hoc advice they had received and paid for regarding their pension objectives. It 
does not suggest to me that there was an ongoing relationship. 
Overall, in 2009 I think a reasonable conclusion for Mr and Mrs D to have reached upon 
reading such a comment would mean it was for them to seek additional advice from Pareto if 
they wanted any detailed discussions about any of their other financial affairs. And theres 
nothing to suggest that their IHT position had been or would be considered pending contact 
from them.
Ongoing service agreement
Mr and Mrs D have said that the transfer of the servicing of their policy to Pareto would have 
meant that a prudent adviser should have told them if the policy wasnt right for them. 
Pareto has said that the transfer of the servicing policy for the whole of life plan at the time 
was put in place to enable it to obtain further information about it in the anticipation that      
Mr and Mrs D would be seeking more information about the policy and would be entering 
into an agreement to receive ongoing service and for the IHT liability to be addressed at a 
later date. 
While I think its clear the advice given in August 2009 solely focused on Mr and Mrs Ds 
pension objectives, I do note the remuneration section of the Report and Recommendation 
document said;
It is usual for us to charge an initial fee of 3% plus an annual fee of 0.5% to cover 
the cost of review, as it is highly unlikely that we will receiving ongoing regular fees, 
which go some way in offsetting the initial costs of advice we have chosen to 
increase the initial to 4% with any further fees being charged on an ad hoc basis.
I think this gave Mr and Mrs D some indication of the fee structure of Pareto and that any 
further work would incur ad hoc charges rather than it being paid an ongoing charge.
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs D didnt sign any agreement for the ongoing service of the 
whole of policy. And they didnt pay any fees for such a service which I think it would have 
been reasonable for them to have expected to pay if that was the service they wanted. 
Commission paid to Pareto
Mr and Mrs D were concerned that Pareto had, and was still receiving commission in respect 
of the policy.Mr and Mrs D have said that at no point between 2009 and 2021 were they contacted by 
Pareto despite commission being paid and it receiving copies of the annual letters from the 
insurer. Even if they hadnt agreed to the ongoing service, Mr and Mrs D believe a prudent 
adviser would have contacted them about the need for servicing and a review of the 
appropriateness of the policy. 
Pareto has told us that it received a renewal commission for the whole of life policy totalling 
£108.30 but that it does not mean an agreement was in place for on-going advice. 
Pareto said that when it contacted the whole of life policy provider in 2009 it was informed 
that since 2012 the policy no longer generated commission for increases. It was                 
Mr and Mrs D who received an enhanced allocation rate. Pareto did continue to receive 
renewal commission between 2015 and 2021 for increases prior to 2012 but that was 
permissible under the rules that applied.
And I agree with the comment made by Pareto that the amount it had received was 
negligible and without any other payments or fees being paid, it did not represent the costs 
warranted in Mr and Mrs D expecting to receive the ongoing service that they now say they 
were due. And while Pareto did receive copies of statements from the provider, I accept that 
these were not reviewed because Pareto had no obligation to do so as there wasnt an 
ongoing relationship in place. 
Mr and Mrs D say they became concerned about the policy and the increase in premiums 
over the years. This being the case, I would have expected them to have make contact with 
Pareto if they were under the impression that it had an obligation to provide them with that 
sort of service. The information on file suggests that no such contact was made by             
Mr and Mrs D. It was Pareto who made contact with Mr and Mrs D after receiving notification 
and a request from the product provider to do so as it said there was the possibility that the 
policy cover could have been cancelled or dramatically reduced. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont agree that by Pareto receiving renewal 
commission meant there was an ongoing servicing relationship. Commission payments to 
financial firms in this way was normal at the time. It wasnt a reflection of any ongoing 
relationship and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs D to 
have believed they did have such a relationship with Pareto. 
Contact in 2020 and 2021
Mr and Mrs D say the contact they had with Pareto in 2021 indicates much more than a 
courtesy call. They had a meeting with a representative who had travelled some distance to 
meet them and who they had been in contact with over the previous few months about the 
policy. 
Pareto have said it was the product provider that prompted it to contact Mr and Mrs D. I 
understand it tried to make contact in 2020 but wasnt successful until 2021 which resulted in 
the meeting. In that meeting with Pareto Mr and Mrs D say they were told the policy was a 
turkey. So, they would question why they werent told this at the outset when Pareto took 
over servicing rights of the policy or subsequent to that.
But I would reiterate the points I have concluded already. I am satisfied that there was no 
indication of an ongoing servicing agreement with Pareto. And if Mr and Mrs D were so 
convinced that was the case, I would have expected them to have made contact with Pareto 
when their concerns that the increase in premiums was unsupportable. They have said they 
thought that everything was under control and the policy was being reviewed by Pareto. But I 
havent seen anything for them to have reached the conclusion Pareto was reviewing their policy. And the increases in the premiums which clearly caused them some concern, I think 
would have been sufficient for them to have prompted contact with Pareto if they of the 
opinion there was an ongoing relationship for servicing. 
I am very sorry to hear of the position that Mr and Mrs D find themselves in and no doubt 
they have been worried during this time. But taking all of the above into consideration, I dont 
have sufficient evidence for me to conclude that Pareto has done anything wrong. I cant 
agree that it had an obligation to provide an ongoing service to Mr and Mrs D with regard to 
their whole of life policy. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
No doubt Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed with the outcome I have reached  its clear they 
feel strongly about their complaint  but I hope I have been able to explain how and why I 
have reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman