DRN-3042824
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has dealt with 
a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
What happened
In December 2018 Mr K entered into an agreement with a company called Zanussi Solar 
(Zanussi) for the supply and installation of a solar panel system. Mr K paid for the system 
using a fixed-term loan arranged with Shawbrook.
As part of the sales process, Mr K says that he was told the system came with a 25-year 
warranty.  But following installation of the system he received a letter explaining that Zanussi 
only provided a 12-month warranty and after that time there would be a call-out charge of 
£250.  So, Mr K says the benefits of the system were misrepresented to him.
Under s.75 a finance provider is liable to the same extent as the supplier of goods or 
services for a breach of contract or misrepresentation.  So, Mr K made a claim to 
Shawbrook.
Shawbrook reviewed didnt uphold Mr Ks claim as it did not believe the benefits of the solar 
panels were misrepresented.  It said the terms and conditions set out in the point of sale 
documentation to be clear  in particular, highlighting that Zanussi offered a free 12-month 
warranty, but the full 25-year warranty was provided by the manufacturer.
As Mr K disagreed with Shawbrook, he referred a complaint to this Service.  One of our 
investigators reviewed everything and concluded that Shawbrook didnt need to do anything.  
He felt the warranties were clearly set out to Mr K and are in place, so couldnt conclude 
there was a misrepresentation about the warranty.
Mr K remained unhappy and provided further evidence in support of his complaint. He made 
a number of points, but in summary said:
he had sought an assurance from the salesperson that there was a 25-year warranty 
before going ahead with the purchase.
after the installation, the sales person who sold him the system said that a 1-year 
warranty was news to him.
he has also received little financial benefit from the system since its installation.
he wants the warranty and benefits he was promised honoured, or the panels to be 
removed and the loan cancelled. He says that hes aware this has happened for 
another customer in the same boat.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has now been passed to me to review 
everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator.
For there to be a valid claim under s.75, an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
must exist.  Im satisfied that exists here, and as Shawbrook has accepted the claim I wont 
expand further. The key issue for me to decide is whether Shawbrook has acted fairly and 
reasonably in dealing with Mr Ks s.75 claim.  
I note that his claim was initially about the solar panel system warranty and his belief that it 
was misrepresented to him.  However, in response to the investigators assessment, Mr K 
also raised concerns that the system hadnt performed as he was told it would and that it 
hasnt generated the final benefits he expected.
As Mr K had only made a claim about the warranty, neither Shawbrook or the investigator 
had investigated the issues now raised about the performance of the solar panels.  As a 
result, Im unable to consider that point in this this decision.  I will go on to set out my 
thoughts about what Mr K was told about the warranty, and whether it was misrepresented 
to him, but if Mr K wishes for the concerns hes raised about the system performance to be 
looked at, he will need to make a separate s.75 claim to Shawbrook.
I understand Mr Ks frustration and concerns, and Ive considered his testimony long with the 
documentation from the time of sale.  In the investigators assessment he referred to the 
terms and conditions that Mr K signed dated 29 December 2018. In those terms and 
conditions, it stated:
Zanussi solar panels come with a 25-year warranty for manufacture of the modules 
and for the performance of the solar cells (p.30)
and
We [Zanussi] undertake to repair or replace faulty materials free of charge for the 
first year of the contract. Thereafter all materials supplied are covered by the 
manufacturers warranties and will provide the customer with every assistance in 
pursuing any claim should that be necessary. (p.29)
I think this clearly confirms there is a 25-year warranty for Mr Ks solar panel, but that its 
provided by the manufacturer rather than Zanussi as the supplier and installer.  It also shows 
that there is further cover in the first year provided by Zanussi free of charge.  This would 
make sense as Zanussi is responsible for the original installation, and the so the initial one-
year warranty would likely provide cover for any issues that stem directly from that.
Mr K is unhappy that after the first year, Zanussi charge a call out fee to deal with system 
problems.  I can understand why Mr K may not have appreciated that fees would exist in the 
event of a call-out, but I cant fairly and reasonably uphold the complaint and say Shawbrook 
needs to do anything as a result.
The terms and condition set out above does clearly state that it would only be free of charge 
for it to repair or replace faulty materials in the first year.  After that time, it set out that 
materials were covered by the manufacturer warranties. No assurance was given in those terms that Zanussi would cover anything after the first year  so its probable a call out 
charge maty be incurred.
I have considered the email comments provided by Mr K from the sale person.  But overall, I 
cant be certain exactly what may have been said at the time of sale, and Im not persuaded 
it would be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint, knowing what is set out in the sale 
documents.
I realise Mr K is likely to be disappointed with my conclusion, but I must assure him that Ive 
considered everything impartially, afresh and in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman