DRN-3336062
The complaint
Mr P complains that AWP P&C SA declined his travel insurance claim. My references to 
AWP include its agents.
What happened
On 5 February 2020 Mr P took out single trip travel insurance, insured by AWP. On 
9 February 2020 he travelled to a country in Asia and was due to return to the UK on 7 May 
2020.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad. On 23 March 2020 the FCDO advised all British travellers to return from abroad 
immediately due to Covid-19.  
Mr P returned to the UK on 28 March 2020. He claimed on his travel insurance for his 
additional costs due to his early return. 
AWP declined the claim, it said the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. 
Mr P complained to us. In summary he said given the exceptional circumstances of the 
Covid-19 pandemic AWP should pay his claim.  
Our investigator said AWP had fairly declined Mr Ps claim.
Mr P disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said:
AWP told him it wasnt going to use the policy exclusion for pandemics to decline his 
claim, but had done so. 
The certificate from the hospital in the country he was in showed he had a wound 
that needed daily treatment at the hospital until 25 March 2020. Mr P said if he hadnt 
needed treatment he would have travelled home when Covid-19 was declared a 
pandemic on 12 March 2020, before the FCDO advice on 23 March 2020. He 
thought AWP would have then treated his claim differently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say that an insurer should handle claims promptly 
and fairly and that they also shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I think AWP reasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
I understand the situation which Mr P found himself in was completely unprecedented and  
that when he bought this insurance policy the circumstances surrounding Covid-19 couldnt 
have been foreseen by either consumers or insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. AWPs 
obligations under its contract with Mr P are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions 
which are set out in the policy.
Mr P says he was told by the travel provider to pay the cost for the additional flight himself 
and the insurer would reimburse him. Ive seen no evidence to support he was given that 
information, and any claim Mr P made under the policy would be subject to the policy terms.
Page 12 of Mr Ps policy says the policy covers unused irrecoverable travel expenses if a 
holiday is curtailed (cut short) due to specified listed insured reasons. Those insured reasons  
dont include returning home due to FCDO advice or there being a pandemic, which is the 
reasons Mr P returned. And even for the insured reasons only unused travel costs are 
covered, not the additional costs Mr P is claiming. 
AWPs final response letter to Mr P said that extra costs of him returning to the UK could 
only be considered if his circumstances were covered under the emergency medical and 
associated expenses section of the policy. Those policy terms cover Mr Ps cost of returning 
to the UK if he had been injured or taken ill during his trip and as a result it was medically 
necessary for him to return home. The hospital medical certificate says Mr P had a 
superficial wound on his knee, the wound had been dressed daily at home since 2 March 
2020 and that the wound looked good, didnt infect. Theres no evidence that Mr Ps injury 
meant it would have been medically necessary for him to return to the UK early than 
planned.
Mr P says the Covid-19 pandemic meant it was medically necessary for him to return home, 
and he would have done so before the FDCO advice on 23 March but for his knee wound. 
But the policy terms under the emergency medical and associated expenses section 
wouldnt have covered Mr P for returning home just because Covid-19 had been declared a 
pandemic. As Ive said, the policy terms say there may be cover for repatriation costs if it 
was medically necessary for Mr P to return home as a result of him being injured or 
becoming ill during his trip (subject to the policy terms and conditions), and theres no 
evidence that was Mr Ps situation.
Im satisfied that under the policy terms there is no cover for Mr Ps claim.
Ive also considered whether I can reasonably say that even though there is no cover for 
Mr Ps claim it would be fair for AWP to pay the claim. 
On page 9 of the policy the general exclusions say:
The following exclusions apply to the whole of your policy:
Any epidemic or pandemic.
AWPs final response letter to Mr P says it wasnt enforcing the exclusion for pandemics. As 
the reason Mr P returned home early was due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the FCDO 
advice because of the pandemic AWP could have used that exclusion. But as Mr Ps claim 
wasnt covered by the policy anyway AWP didnt need to use the exclusion to decline the 
claim. 
As claims due to a pandemic are specifically excluded under the terms of this insurance 
policy I dont think I can reasonably say AWP was unfair to decline the claim. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman