DRN-2635489
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that a claim she made on her pet insurance policy was declined by Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
What happened
In January 2018 Mrs B arranged a policy with Red Sands for one of her dogs. 
The veterinary notes for the period after the policy was arranged say:
29/12/2018: Mass right side ventrum o recently noticed. Approx. 1 cm diameter, soft and 
regular edges, fna aspirated fatty material. Suspect lipoma
24/07/2020: Has large external lipoma on belly. Soft but grown quickly in last 2 months. 
Advise remove. 
04/08/2020: 3cm lipoma removed 
Following the operation to remove the lipoma in 2020, Mrs B made a claim under her policy 
for the treatment. Red Sands declined the claim. It concluded that the lipoma that had been 
removed in 2020 was linked to the lump the vet examined in December 2018. As such, the 
operation had taken place outside the treatment window of 365 days from when symptoms 
first arose, and so it didnt fall to be covered by the policy. Red Sands said that had Mrs B 
declared the condition, as she was asked to do in response to the December 2019 renewal 
invitation, it would have reminded her about the time limit. In addition, it would have placed 
an exclusion on her policy for lipomas and resulting conditions, from the 2020 renewal and it 
was applying that exclusion retrospectively.
Mrs B wasnt happy and complained about the claim decision. Red Sands didnt uphold the 
complaint. It highlighted that the suspected lipoma in December 2018 and the one removed 
in July 2020 were in the same location. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with the response to her complaint and asked us to look into it. She said 
that the lump assessed by the vet in 2018 had disappeared on its own and the lipoma that 
was removed in 2020 was an unrelated growth. She also highlighted that the vet had only 
theorised that the lump in 2018 was a lipoma; the diagnosis had never been made 
definitively.
Red Sands provided this service with a copy of its underwriting guide which detailed that 
following notification of a lipoma, an exclusion would be applied for all claims with respect to 
lipomas and resulting conditions after the treatment window had expired.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that her complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a decision. She said that she hadnt understood what time limited had 
meant when she bought the policy online. However, she reiterated that the lump in 2018 
hadnt been confirmed as a lipoma, it was simply suspected to be one. She reiterated that 
she felt she had been treated unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy is one that has a time limit on cover  so a condition is only covered for 365 
days. If a claim is made outside of this time limit, it wont be valid, even if previous claims 
have been accepted. This type of policy is not unusual and the time limitation means that the 
costs tend to be lower than other types of pet insurance policies. Whilst Mrs B has said she 
didnt really understand what that meant, I cant hold Red Sands responsible for whether the 
policy was suitable for her, as no advice was given. I am, however, satisfied the term was 
set out clearly in the key facts and other documentation when the policy was arranged and at 
renewal.
The claim was declined because the treatment was given after the time limit for the condition 
had expired. If the time limit had expired, it wouldnt have been unreasonable for Red Sands 
to have declined the claim in those circumstances. 
Mrs B has said the lump investigated in 2018 wasnt the same lump as that removed in 
2020. Shes also highlighted that a definitive diagnosis of the 2018 lump was not made. By 
this I understand that she doesnt think the time limit for lipomas started in 2018. A lipoma is 
a benign, fatty lump. The sample removed from the lump in 2018 wasnt sent off for tests 
that would have definitively confirmed it was a lipoma, but the vet described the fluid as fatty 
and the lump likely to be a lipoma. The fact that no further tests or treatment were 
recommended would also support the vet believing it to be a lipoma.  
Red Sands has also highlighted that when it sent Mrs B renewal papers toward the end of 
2019 it asked her to tell it about anything shed consulted her vet about, other than standard 
vaccinations.  I am satisfied that she should have told Red Sands about the consultation at 
the end of 2018. Had she done so, given the content of the vets notes. I dont think it would 
have been reasonable for the exclusion to have been added to the policy at the January 
2020 renewal. 
It isnt entirely clear from the vet notes whether the 2020 operation was to remove the 2018 
lipoma or one that had developed since. However, it was in the same area of the dogs body, 
so if it wasnt the same lipoma, the second one would be considered to be the same 
condition. So it would be covered by the time limit for that condition.
In all the circumstances in this case, I dont think Red Sands acted unreasonably or 
inappropriately when it determined the claim shouldnt be paid, as the time limit for the 
condition claimed for had expired and it was excluded from cover. 
I note that Mrs B said to Red Sands that she was disappointed with its decision, especially in 
light of the pandemic preventing her from taking her dog to the vet earlier. I have considered 
this; however, I am not persuaded that any delay in treatment due to the pandemic would 
have altered the outcome of her claim. That is because there was no cover for the condition 
treated from the end of 2019, some months before the pandemic could have caused Mrs B 
difficulties in seeking veterinary care for her dog. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
2 June 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman