DRN-2069039
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) provided him with an 
unaffordable guarantor loan. He says had Buddy Loans completed an adequate income and 
expenditure assessment it would have seen he wasnt able to make the required payments 
to this loan.  
  
Background
Buddy Loans provided Mr B with a guarantor loan of £10,000.00 in April 2019. The loan had 
an APR of 49.9% and a 60-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£23,677.75 was due to be repaid in a first instalment of £356.49 followed by 59 monthly 
instalments of around £395.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Buddy Loans had unfairly 
provided Mr B with this loan. So he recommended the complaint be upheld. Buddy Loans 
disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
  
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr B would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr B would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
Buddy Loans provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Buddy Loans to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this
meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mr B undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr B, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Buddy Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
Buddy Loans says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr B prior 
to providing him with his loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr B confirmed that he was 
earning around £4,000.00 a month, had expenses of £1,987.74 and would have to make 
payments of £507.25 to creditors each month once this loan was approved. 
The credit check Buddy Loans carried out showed that Mr B was in arrears on his gas 
account and had several other accounts which had missed or late payments but these had 
been brought up to date in the period leading up to this application. Buddy Loans says Mr B 
had enough left to make the required monthly loan payments, when the living costs and the monthly payments left needed to meet the credit commitments shown on the credit check 
once they were consolidated by this loan, were deducted from Mr Bs monthly income. 
 
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check Buddy Loans carried out indicated that Mr B had significant difficulties with 
credit in the past and that he was behind on his utility payments. Ive seen that Buddy Loans 
has said as a sub-prime lender it expects its customers to have credit commitments that 
have at some stage fell behind. Be that as it may, bearing in mind the regulatory rules place 
an obligation to carry out a borrower focused check, where previous repayment difficulties 
are apparent, I would expect a lender to take additional steps to verify that a consumer can 
take on an additional commitment before providing it.  
In this case Buddy Loans appears to have simply accepted Mr Bs explanation for his 
difficulties at face value. This is despite the fact that hed also declared a disposable income 
which was clearly at odds with what his credit file was displaying. And given hed also 
suggested that some of his difficulties might have been due to a reduced income, I cant see 
or understand why Buddy Loans didnt ask Mr B for evidence to support his income 
declaration, instead of relying on an electronic system which it has provided a vague 
description of. 
Buddy Loans has also said that Mr B provided false information. But Im mindful that CONC 
5.2A.36R says: 
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment.
And there is further guidance provided at CONC 5.2A.37G which says:  
An example of where a firm has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not 
been truthful may be where information supplied by the customer concerning income or 
employment status is clearly inconsistent with other information of which the firm is aware.
As Ive explained the income and expenditure information declared appeared inconstant with 
Mr Bs recent credit history. So I dont think that its fair and reasonable for Buddy Loans to 
claim it was misled when it chose to procced with what it had despite this. And I consider 
Buddy Loans use of inflammatory language such as CIFAS application fraud to be 
particularly unhelpful here.   
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that Buddy Loans needed to take steps to verify Mr Bs 
income and expenditure instead of choosing to rely on an over optimistic calculation of his 
monthly disposable income based on data points and declared income. As I cant see that 
this Buddy Loans did do this, or in fact take any steps at all to address the inconsistencies, I 
dont think that the checks it carried out before providing Mr B with his loan were reasonable 
and proportionate.Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Buddy Loans that Mr B
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Buddy Loans that Mr B wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Mr B has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr B has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Buddy Loans mightve carried out.
But in the absence of anything else from Buddy Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr Bs financial circumstances were more likely than not 
to have been at the time. To be clear, Im not saying that Buddy Loans needed to obtain 
bank statements before lending to Mr B, what Im saying here is that bearing in mind what it 
had seen and what it was about to provide Mr B with, I think it needed to actually verify      
Mr Bs income and expenditure, rather than cross-reference it against data points. 
Buddy Loans acknowledges that Mr B took on a substantial amount of other debt around the 
time of his Buddy Loans loan. But it says it couldnt have foreseen this and on the contrary 
Mr Bs credit file showing that hed brought most of his existing commitments up to date was 
an indication of a more stable financial position. 
Ive thought about what Buddy Loans has said but, Buddy Loans was required to establish 
whether Mr B could make his loan repayments without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences and while meeting other reasonable commitments. And 
not just establish whether the loan repayments were technically affordable on a strict pounds 
and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be 
an indication that a lender met its obligations. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is 
the case. 
And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their payments, it 
follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower shouldnt be provided with further credit, if they are unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. Ive kept this in mind when reviewing the information 
Mr B has provided.
I think that if Buddy Loans had looked further into Mr Bs circumstances, it would have seen 
that he was taking this loan to cover the hole bringing his existing commitments up to date 
left in his finances. So he was in effect borrowing to cover repayments hed already made 
and even then he was still in arrears with his gas supplier. I also think that a closer look at  
Mr Bs finances would have revealed a longer-term reliance on short-term borrowing, the 
real reasons behind his credit file being the way it was and his continuing problem debt.   
Overall Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have demonstrated that Mr B would not have been able to make the repayments to this loan. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in 
some other way.  So I find that Buddy Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other 
way.  
Did Mr B lose out as a result of Buddy Loans unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr B has paid or is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that he
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what
Buddy Loans did wrong.
  
Fair compensation what Buddy Loans need to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mr Bs complaint for Buddy Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The
payments Mr B has made should be deducted from the £10,000.00 he was
originally lent. Buddy Loans should treat any payments made if and when the
£10,000.00 has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be
refunded to Mr B;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date
they were made by Mr B to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest.
Buddy Loans must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if
he asks for one.
Id also remind Buddy Loans of its obligation to exercise forbearance if, which at present 
appears likely, an outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made to    
Mr Bs account and its the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
  
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman