DRN-3447530
The complaint
Miss N complains about the way that Debt Managers (Services) Limited (DMSL) handled the 
collection of accounts in her name. 
Miss N wants DMSL to compensate her for the impact the mistakes have had on her.
What happened
In early 2021, DMSL bought some debts in Miss Ns name.  Due to a system error, DMSL 
sent Miss N notifications of late payment. As a result, DMSL took payments twice.
DMSL apologised for the mistake, refunded some money, and removed the late payment 
markers. But in August 2021, Miss N complained again as DMSL had reported more late 
payment markers on her credit file. DMSL said this was because Miss N hadnt kept up with 
her payment plan. DMSL initially declined to remove the late payment markers but has now 
done so.
The investigator recommended that Miss Ns complaint be upheld. He thought that DMSLs 
mistakes had caused Miss N upset and inconvenience. He asked DMSL to pay Miss N £250 
to put things right.
DMSL doesnt agree with the investigators recommendation. It doesnt think it acted 
inappropriately as it had already apologised to Miss N, amended her credit file, and refunded 
some payments. DMSL points out that Miss N hasnt lost out financially. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres any dispute that DMSL made a mistake in the way that it handled the 
collection of Miss Ns debts. So, my decision focusses on whether its reasonable to require 
DMSL to compensate Miss N in line with the investigators recommendation. 
DMSL says that although there was a system error, it apologised and refunded money to 
Miss N. DMSL also says that apart from a delay due to correspondence backlogs, it 
responded promptly to Miss Ns concerns. This may be correct but I dont think DMSLs 
response to the problem detracts from the upset that Miss N felt because of the mistakes 
made. In the circumstances, I consider it reasonable to award Miss N compensation to 
reflect the impact the mistakes had on her.
From reading the contact notes provided by DMSL, I can see that Miss N made multiple calls 
and dealt with emails over several months. It appears that despite issues over the payment 
plans, DMSL continued to report late payments on Miss Ns credit file. This was upsetting for 
Miss N who says she was told by DMSL to hold off making payments while the issues were 
resolved. Miss N also says that she found it financially difficult when DMSL took double 
payments from her bank account even though they were eventually refunded. 
I can appreciate the stress that Miss N felt during an extended period. She spent a 
considerable and sometimes frustrating amount of time in contact with DMSL. Overall, I 
agree with the investigator that a compensation payment of £250 is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right Debt Managers (Services) Limited should pay Miss N £250.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Debt 
Managers (Services) Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman