DRN -2699065  
 
 
 
 
 
The complaint  
 
Y complains that they were given unsuitable advice by Wealthmasters Financial Management  
Ltd (WFM)  when  they recommended  them  to buy unquoted  shares  in Elysian Fuels (EF) and 
sell them to their Self -Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  
 
Ys partner,  Z, also invested  and has been  dealing  with the correspondence  in this complaint 
for both them and Y. Their complaint is being dealt with separately.  
 
What happened  
 
In July 2013  one of WFMs  financial  advisers  (who  Ill refer to as A) completed  a fact find 
with Y and Z. The following was noted:  
Y and Z lived together  with two children.  They  had assets  of £1,224,000  which consisted of:  
 
 £4k in cash 
 a house  worth  £120k  
 buy to let property  worth  £160k  
 holiday  home  worth  £300k  
 unit trust of £640k  
 
Their respective incomes were noted as £30k. The majority of the form including sections on 
liabilities,  income  and expenditure,  existing  pension  arrangements  etc was left blank  and had 
notes stating not prepared to disclose.  
 
The priority  was lump  sum investments  and the couple  was classified  as high net worth 
clients (they also signed declarations confirming this). The ongoing service level was 
determined as basic customer, defined as customers who require a lo w service level 
without ongoing advice or a close personal servicing relationship.  
 
As notes said they were quite willing to take risks on this investment and talked about 
unquoted  shares.  They  did not want  advice  on any other  area as this is an IFA [Z] and quite 
capable of running things.  
 
A risk profile  showed  Y and Z to be adventurous.  
 
In August Z opened Self - Invested Personal Pensions (SIPP) for both of them in their 
capacity as a financial adviser and around £40k from an existing personal pension was 
transferred  into Ys SIPP.  A further  employer  contribution  of £12,000  was made  to the SIPP 
from Z and Ys financial adviser firm.  
 
In September A issued a suitability report recommending Y to buy 50,000 £1 shares in 
Elysian  Fuels  30 Plc. They  were advised  to invest  £6,425  and the remaining  funds  of 
£43,575 were provided through a limited recourse loan. Z was recommended to buy 66,000 
£1 shares investing £8,481 and £57,519 being provided through a loan. As part of the 
investment scheme a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) was set up with Y and Z becoming 
members of the LLP.  
In October the EF shares were sold to the SIPP. The paperwork was submitted to the SIPP 
provider  through  A. Y also signed  a statement  for self-certified  sophis ticated  investors  for the 
SIPP provider in which they declared amongst other things that they understood this was an 
unregulated investment, they understood the terms and conditions of the investment and the  
charges  involved  and the risks of the investment  and were  comfortable  taking  them.  Y 
specifically noted on the declaration that they had been a director of an IFA practice for the 
past 8 years and fully understood the unquoted shares being purchased. They said this 
represented less than 8% of their wealth.  
 
Not too long afterwards, HMRC started investigating the arrangements around the EF 
investments and questioned the original value of £1 per share and how transactions were 
treated for tax purposes. It treated the payments from the SIPP as una uthorised payments. 
Y and Z were requested by HMRC a few years later to pay over £63,000 to settle  their tax 
liabilities.  They  hold WFM  responsible  for these  charges  due to the poor advice  they think 
they gave.  
 
Z knew  A personally  as they had been  busines s partners  for many  years.  They  say it was A  
who introduced  them  and Y to the EF investment.  They  say the proposition  from the start 
was to sell the shares to a SIPP to shelter them for tax benefits and that A recommended a 
particular SIPP provider as it would accept those shares.  
 
Z says they and their partner were aware of the risk of the shares going up and down in 
value and they are not complaining about this. However, they say they didnt know about 
becoming members of an LLP. And if they had been informed about the potential tax 
implications of selling the shares to the SIPP and that this could be open to HMRC 
investigations they wouldnt have undertaken the investment. They say that was beyond any 
risk they wanted to take and it didnt fulfil thei r objectives which was to make the shares tax 
efficient with the potential for capital growth within the SIPPs. Z says although they are a 
financial  adviser  they didnt  deal with this type of product  and had no experience  in 
investment products such as EF.  
 
WFM didnt uphold the couples complaint. They said they didnt give them advice about  
what to do with the shares once they bought them. They say they didnt advise them to open 
a SIPP  or sell the shares  to it. So they shouldnt  be held responsible  for the consequences  of 
these actions.  
 
Z and Y disagreed  and referred  their complaint  to our service.  Weve  looked  at their individual 
cases separately as it relates to their individual SIPPs and tax liabilities.  
Our investigator thought Ys complaint should be upheld. They thought WFM were involved 
in the selling of shares to the SIPP. And as Y didnt have significant investment experience 
they wouldnt have ended up selling the EF shares to the SIPP if it wasnt for advice from 
WFM and consequently wo uldnt have faced a tax bill from HMRC. So the investigator  
thought  WFM  should  pay the HMRC  bill and pay Y £250  for the distress  and inconvenience 
this matter had caused them.  
 
WFM didnt agree. Y also thought £250 compensation for the distress suffered wa snt 
sufficient.  As no resolution  could  be agreed,  Ys complaint  has been  passed  to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.  
 
 
What Ive decided   and why 
 
Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  whats  fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  
 
provisional  findings  
 
I issued  a provisional  decision  in which  I explained  that I didnt  intend  to uphold  Ys complaint. 
I said:  
 
WFM  recommended  Z and Y to buy the EF shares.  However,  there  has been  a dispute 
about who introduced the couple to the EF investment. The suitability report mentions they 
had heard about it from a friend and so WFM says it wasnt A. Z is adamant  it was A who 
told them  about  this investment  opportunity.  They  said A had also con tacted other former 
colleagues.  
 
I cant  know  for certain  who introduced  Y and Z to EF. However,  I think  on balance  its likely 
that it was A. Z and A had been longstanding business partners and Zs company became 
an appointed representative of WFM in October 2013, so its likely they were in close 
contact. And this service has seen other complaints where WFM advised on EF, so A would 
have likely been familiar with the investment.  
 
I find it plausible that the friend referred to in the suitability rep ort was A. In a questionnaire 
about  unquoted  shares  from the SIPP  provider,  when  Y and Z were  asked  where  they had 
heard about the investment, they each said my IFA which I think can also reasonably be 
assumed to be A as they were advising them on this investment. In any event, whoever the 
couple heard about EF from first, its clear A advised on purchase of the EF shares, so they 
had to make sure this was suitable.  
 
Its also disputed  whether  A recommended  that the shares  would  be sold to a SIPP.  
WFM is correct when they say that theres no written recommendation from WFM about 
selling  the shares  to a SIPP  and a particular  provider.  However,  I think  on balance  its likely 
the sale of the shares  to the SIPP  was always  part of the investment  propositi on and that A 
would have suggested to the couple this was the way to go about it.  
 
In the notes  for the  fact find A said: 
 
I said if they went down this route [unquoted EF shares] either to put them in an offshore 
trust or in a pension  so that they avoid  paying  tax. This was again  mirrored  in the suitability 
report where A said:  
 
One  point  that is important  to both of you is the ability  to shelter  possible  future  gains.  You 
asked me for my suggestions on this and I explained that you have two optio ns; you could 
look to sell the shares to your pension or set up an offshore trust. You confirmed that you 
would like to proceed with the purchase of shares and then discuss the two options in detail 
at a later date.  
 
I think  the above  indicates  that A was the one who suggested  putting  the shares  in a pension 
to avoid  tax. Given what  this service has  seen  on other  cases against  WFM, EF  shares  were 
regularly sold to SIPPs with this particular provider. Selling the shares to a SIPP together 
with having a l arge limited recourse loan had the benefit of releasing a lump sum of cash 
from the pension  without  paying  income  tax and in some  cases  before  retirement  age, so the 
whole EF investment looked particularly attractive when sold to a pension. I think the sal e of 
EF shares to a SIPP would have likely been part of the overall investment proposition from 
the outset.  
 
 
Z opened  the SIPPs  for them  and their partner  in their capacity  as a financial  adviser  shortly  after they had met with A, so on balance I think the conversations with A triggered this 
action. They said they opened the SIPP and dealt with the transfer of pension funds 
themself as they didnt want to pay additional charges for something they could do on their 
own which I find plausib le. I dont  think  this is necessarily  evidence  that it was their idea to 
open  the SIPPs  and sell the shares to it and WFM had nothing to do with this. I think its 
more likely Z and Y  understood  from their conversations  with A that they would  need  SIPPs  
for the investment and so Z went ahead and opened them.  
 
Ive also considered that A was involved after the SIPP had been opened. Ive seen 
evidence  that it was them  who sent the necessary  forms  and documents  for the EF share  
sale to the SIPP provider. Again this suggests to me that A was involved in arranging the 
whole investment through the SIPP.  
 
Z says their and Ys complaint  isnt about  the investment  risk of the shares  itself,  but about the 
tax consequences they now face due to the sale o f the shares to the SIPP.  
 
In their complaint letter to WFM, Z and Y said they knew this was a high -risk investment and 
that the capital invested to purchase the shares could be lost. They were prepared to accept 
this risk for the chance of success in the long term. Looking at the couples  assets  at the 
time and the relatively  low amount  they were  investing  from their own capital I think they not 
only had the risk appetite to invest into EF shares, but also had the required  capacity  for 
loss. In the suitabi lity report  it was mentioned  that the lump  sum would be made from monies 
held on deposit and that they had confirmed it was affordable.  
 
In more recent correspondence with this service Z said that having £640k in unit trusts was a 
fabrication and they and Y werent high net worth clients. However, Y and Z signed the fact 
find which set out these assets to say that the information included was accurate and they 
also signed high net worth client declarations. Y also noted on their sophisticated investor 
declaration that the shares they were purchasing represented less than 8% of their wealth. 
And these assets were included on the limited recourse loan application Y signed. So overall 
Im satisfied Y and Z had the necessary net -worth to be able to  enter  these high-risk 
investments  and absorb  potential  losses.  On balance  I dont  think  the recommendation to 
buy EF shares was unsuitable.  
 
Z said they and Y werent told about being a member of an LLP which led to problems with 
HMRC later on too as they didnt de clare this. Ive also looked at what further written 
information they were given about the EF investment and their membership of an LLP. The 
suitability  report  referred  to the couple  having  received  all supporting  literature  including  the 
Brochure. And t hey both also signed declarations for the SIPP provider saying that they 
were fully aware of both the style and terms of the Self -Invested Personal Pension 
investment opportunity outlined in the accompanying prospectus titled Elysian Fuels No 30 
PLC.  
 
The Elysian Fuels  Brochure said: 
 
This  offers  investors  the opportunity  to invest  in a UK limited  liability  partnership.  
The Partnership  will consist  of individual  members  and a corporate  member.  Individuals  who 
subscribe for non -redeemable preference shares in the corporate member may also 
subscribe directly for an interest in the partnership. ...  
 
Although  individual  members  will be responsible  for day to day management  and control  of 
the business,  this is expected  to be limited  to monthl y partnership  meetings  and occasional 
correspondence, together with some limited additional work commitment.  
Partners  should  seek  their own tax advice  to confirm  the applicable  tax treatment  in respect 
to their involvement in the Elysian Corporate and the Elysian Partnership.  The brochure also showed a drawing of the financial structure which showed individual 
partners  paying  the majority  of capital  to the corporate  member  and a small  percentage  into 
the LLP.  
 
Further,  the loan agreements  Z and Y signed  also said the following:  
 
Prior to drawdown the Borrower shall submit, in a form satisfactory to the Lender such 
information  and documents  as the Lender  shall reasonably  require,  including  but not limited 
to: 
(a) a Notice  of Drawdown  substantially  in the form set out in Schedule  1; 
(b) a security  agreement  (the "LLP  interest  Security  Agreement")  from the Borrower  in favour 
of the Lender  over the Borrower's  membership  in and all rights  and entitlements  in respect 
of the Elysian Fuels 30 LLP  
and 
(c) a guarantee and debenture (the "LLP Guarantee and Debenture") from the LLP in 
respect  of all its assets  including  its rights  to receive  amounts  under  certain  contracts.  
 
This Agreement,  the LLP Intere st Security  Agreement,  the LLP Guarantee  and Debenture 
and any related documents shall together constitute the "Finance Documents for the 
purpose of the Agreement  
 
In the Repayment  section  of the agreement  it said: 
 
..the aggregate amount which the Borro wer has received and the segregate amount the 
Borrower  is entitled  to receive  but not yet received  (being  amounts  before  any tax or other 
expenses), by virtue of (Z) or (Y) membership interest in the LLP  
.. received  by the Borrower  upon  a disposal  of (Z) or (Y) membership  interest in the LLP 
 
And in the General  Undertakings  Section  it reads:  
 
..the  Borrower  shall not enter  into a single  transaction  or a series  of transactions  [] to sell, 
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of its interests in the LLP .[my emphasis]  
 
Z and Y also signed  application  forms  for the Partnership  Interest  which  confirmed their 
respective capital contribution to the Partnership.  
 
Having  looked  at all of the above  I think  Z and Y more  likely  than not knew  that membership of 
an LLP was involved as part of the investment.  
 
Z says A didnt explain fully the potential tax implications of selling the shares to the scheme  
or the possibility  of HMRC  investigating  the scheme.  I dont  know  what  exactly  was discussed  
with Z and Y. A unfortunately  has passed  away  and so we cant  obtain  their testimony on this 
either.  
 
I can see that the suitability  report  included  risk warnings  which  said amongst  other  things: 
 
 The tax status  of the scheme  could  change and  is not guaranteed  
 Your  loan facility  could  be challenged  by the HMRC  
 The share  valuation  could  be challenged  by HMRC  
 The tax status  of the project  could  change  and is not guaranteed  
 The project  contains  numerous  interested  parties  and contractual  obligations,  if you 
do not understand the nature of your commitment or any of the documents you  should  seek  professional  legal  advice  before  proceeding.  
 
The EF brochure  also included  a warning  which  said: 
 
Following a period of consultation and subsequent legislation in Part 5 of the Finance Bill 
2013. it is expected that a General Anti Abuse Rule, ("GAAR) will be part of UK 
legislation with effect from Royal Assent to the Bill expected in early August 2013. 
This legislation will permit [HMRC] to counteract the tax consequences of certain structures 
that have been deemed as being contrary to the GAAR principleswhere, in the opinion of 
HMRC and the GAAR Advisory Panel, there  has been aggressive avoidance of tax which is 
contrary to Government policy, action can be taken. The legislation in this area is laid out in 
the form of guidance supported by examples. Whilst extensive, it is not free from 
interpretation or always clear.  Future Capital Partners are not tax advisers and as such are 
not able to offer any opinion  or commentary  upon  whether  this particular  proposal  IS likely  to 
be affected by the GAAR provisions and if so, what counteraction might be considered . It is 
recomme nded that appropriate legal advice is taken as to the possible effects of the 
GAAR on this proposal . 
 
On 20th May 2013, HM Revenue and Customs issued a Consultation Document entitled 
Partnerships - A review  of two aspects  of the tax rules.  This document  identifies  what  HMRC 
considers to be two situations that lead to loss of tax revenues and which in their opinion 
require remedial action. Those areas are firstly the disguising of employment relationships  
as partnership arrangements and secondly, the allo cation of profits and losses in ways that 
seek a tax advantage with legislation being proposed to be effective from 6th April 
2014. The applications of the proposed rules are very uncertain at this stage and are 
expected to be made clearer as a result of t he Consultation processUntil this legislation 
has been seen and analysed , it is not possible to state, with any certainty, how these 
proposals may impact this opportunity  
 
I think  Y would  have understood  that they could  lose their capital and  that this was a high 
risk investment. However, although they were the company secretary in the same financial 
firm of which Z was a director, Im not satisfied they had the required experience and 
knowledge  to fully understand  what  the consequences  of a challen ge through  HMRC  could 
look like. I think the general warnings given above wouldnt have been sufficient to fully 
inform Y about the risk they were taking.  
 
However, I have to consider that Y wasnt receiving WFMs advice on their own. They were 
being  advis ed together  with their partner  who was an experienced  financial  adviser  and who I 
think had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risk this investment 
presented and that in the event of a challenge through HMRC the couple could be pursue d 
for charges.  
 
The joint suitability  report  says Z had asked  A to arrange  the investment  for both them  and Y  
and as they were  an adviser  they didnt  require  advice  in any other  areas  such  as pensions, 
existing investments or protections as they dealt with this personally. Z also opened the 
SIPPs and arranged their personal pensions to be transferred to the SIPP. The couple 
presented  their finances  as joint and they were  running  a business  together.  The advice  was 
very much given to them as a couple as far as I see it, even if each of them then invested 
through individual SIPPs. And the complaint to WFM as well as this service was very much 
led by Z for both them and Y. I think its reasonable to assume that Z was dealing with the 
couples investments an d they likely would have trusted their opinion in these matters as 
they were a professional financial adviser.  
 
Based on the information I have I consider that Z understood what they were doing and 
knowingly  accepted  the risk that the investment  could  be challenged  by HMRC  and that tax charges could be levied. So even if WFM had made these risks clearer to Y and advised 
them not to proceed, I still think they would have trusted that their partner knew what they 
were doing  and would  have  been  reassured  by their willingness  to invest.  So I think  they 
would  have agreed to sell their shares to their SIPP in any event.  
 
For these  reasons,  I dont  think  it would  be fair to hold WFM  responsible  for the tax charges 
and the related distress Y face s now.  
 
responses  to my provisional  decision  
 
WFM  didnt  respond  to my decision . Y provided  further  comments  which  I thank  them  for. I 
can assure them I considered their detailed submissions in full, but will concentrate on what I 
consider to be the key points.  
 
Y says their investment  is solely  in their name  and not joint with Z. They  were  fully involved 
and have been dealing with their correspondence during this process.  
 
They say they are not a sophisticated investor and they only signed the statement of a self - 
certified  sophisticated  investor  as A told them  without  this they couldnt  put the shares  into 
their SIPP. If it wasnt for A coming to them and Z with this preconceived idea of investing 
into EF through their SIPPs, they wouldnt even have know n about EF.  
 
Their membership of an LLP wasnt explained to them properly and should have been in the 
suitability report.  They were told the share price of £1 was a fair reflection of their value and 
were verbally reassured that research had been undertake n by the SIPP provider and WFM. 
They were paying for advice and as an inexperienced investor shouldnt be expected to 
question  this. They  werent  given  all the facts.  If the risk of the share  value  had been  
explained in more detail they wouldnt have involved themself in something so complex, 
whether Z had proceeded or not.  
 
Most events in their and Zs lives are dealt with together as a couple. They have two children  
and a joint property.  Its correct  that they were  advised  together  and they paid for advice as Z 
wasnt experienced in this area of investment.  
 
Z asked A to arrange the investments for both of them, but this was after they had both met  
with A and they were  involved  in the discussions.  Z opened  the SIPPs  for both of them and 
arranged for t he pensions to be transferred as they were authorised to do so. However,  
Y thinks its presumptuous for me to assume that Z was dealing with the couples 
investments  and they likely  would  have  trusted  their opinion  in this matter.  They  said they 
book vacations for the couple, but they wouldnt just book and expect Z to go along with it; 
there would always be discussion and choice.  
 
It was their money, from their bank account and it was their pension. It was their decision to 
make  and they have  their own mind.  If the risks had been  made  clearer  they would  not have 
proceeded.  
 
my findings  
 
Y thinks the decision has changed from the outcome in the investigators view following 
information  from WFM  which  they assume  was a slight  on their character.  I can assure Y that 
this isnt the case and none of my findings are intended to make a judgement on their 
character in any way. Our service works on a two -stage basis and as an ombudsman I will 
look at every  complaint  referred  to me afresh.  And on balance,  I simply  dont  agree  with the 
investigator that the complaint should be upheld.  It wasnt my intention to upset Y or intimate that they are not capable to make their own 
decisions. I dont doubt that Y was involved in the discussions with A about the investment.  I 
also dont  think  Z made  decisions  for both of them  without  their input.  I think its likely they 
would have discussed the investment after A had promoted it to them and considered it 
together, just like they would do when planning a  holiday; to use Ys analogy.  
 
As I said previously, I agree that Y likely didnt have enough knowledge or experience to 
understand the full risks of this complex investment and WFM should have done more here 
to explain  those  risks to them.  And if Y had received  advice  completely  on their own,  I would 
likely have upheld this complaint.  
 
However, whilst I appreciate Y says they invested their own money and used their own 
pension and could have made an independent decision to Z, I think its more likely they 
would have made a joint decision about this, particularly as Z was a financial adviser  and 
had more  knowledge  than them  about  investments  in general.  So it would  be only natural  for 
Y to look to them  for guidance.  Also any consequences  with HMRC  would  have affected 
them financially as a couple and not just individually. I also note the SIPP information shows 
that the proceeds of the share sale went to their joint account and I think its fair to assume 
any tax charges will also be paid jointly by the co uple.  
 
Y says they only signed the sophisticated investor statement because A told them they 
couldnt  invest  without  this. However,  again  I think  they likely  would  have  looked  for 
guidance from Z about this, who they would have trusted more than A. And if they had 
concerns about this its likely they would have advised them not to sign it.  
 
I accept Z might not have had experience in unregulated investments. However, I think Z did 
have the required professional knowledge to understand that this was a comple x and non -
standard investment and what kind of risks were involved. I think they would have 
understood that it involved tax avoidance and releasing money from their pension earlier 
than normally possible. And I consider they would have understood that HMRC  could get 
involved and  pursue  them  and Y if the investment  scheme  was challenged  in any way. Even  
though they might have been reassured about the share price valuation, I think Z ought to 
have known from the information the couple was given that there was still a risk of an HMRC 
challenge. Z might have underestimated the chances of this happening or even might have  
thought  they could  complain  to WFM  if anything  went  wrong.  However,  either  way I think 
they knowingly accepted the risks involved.  
 
Of course its possible that Y would have decided not to invest if A had explained the  risks to 
them more thoroughly. I cant know exactly what they would have done.  But I think on the  
balance  of probabilities,  its likely  Z would  have  discussed  the investme nt and its risks in 
more detail with Y and they decided together to proceed. And even if they didnt, I think the 
fact that they knew more about investments than Y and they were willing to invest, would 
have likely reassured them and outweighed any more de tailed explanations from A.  
 
So my decision  remains  that I think  Y would  have  more  likely  than not invested  even  if they 
had been provided with more information from A.  
 
My final decision  
 
Im not upholding  Ys complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Y to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.  
 
Nina Walter  
Ombudsman   