DRN-3774272
The complaint
Mr H complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) have settled a claim under his motor insurance 
policy for considerably less than it should have.
Any reference to QIC in this decision also includes agents working on their behalf.
Mr H is represented on this case but for ease I will refer to Mr H throughout.
What happened
Mr H had a market value insurance policy for his car with QIC. In July 2021 he was involved 
in a multi-vehicle accident in which significant damage was caused to his car.
QIC arranged for the car to be collected and inspected, following accident. The car was left 
in outside storage for several weeks, it is a soft top convertible, and the roof was not in the 
full upright position, so the interior of the car was exposed to the elements during this time.
Following a report from their engineer QIC declared Mr Hs car a total loss and offered him 
£29,750. Mr H disputed this valuation  he believed his car to be worth much more as it is a 
rare hand-built car. QIC considered this but said they were unable to increase their offer as 
there was pre-existing damage to the car and the interior had suffered wear and tear that 
brought down the pre-accident value of the car.  
Mr H provided QIC with a report from an engineer that disputed their engineers findings and 
valued the car at £60,000. QIC said they werent persuaded by this as the engineer hadnt 
physically inspected the car. So, Mr H paid for the engineer to go and do a physical 
inspection of the car and provide an in-depth report. He paid £550 for reports. The new 
report maintained the £60,000 valuation placed on the car. This valuation was after a 
deduction of £10,000 to restore the paintwork as this was damaged prior to the accident.  
QIC didnt think the new report changed things and maintained their offer of £29,750 and 
paid this to Mr H minus his excess.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. In 
summary she said as the car was a bespoke car and so we arent able to rely on the normal 
trade guides for a fair valuation. She was more persuaded by the engineers report provided 
by Mr H, as it was extensive in nature, was based on a full physical inspection of the car and 
included a vast amount of market research. 
She recommended QIC should increase the value of the car in line with the valuation Mr Hs 
engineer had given, but said they could rely on the definition of Market value as defined in 
their terms and conditions:
Market value  the cost of replacing your vehicle with another of a similar make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as at the time of the loss or damage, up to the 
value stated in your policy schedule.
The value stated In Mr Hs policy schedule is £50,000. So, the investigator said QIC didnt 
have to settle the claim for more than this amount.Her recommendations were:
QIC should pay Mr H the difference between the £29,750 it had already paid and the 
£50,000 limit in the schedule. Adding 8% simple interest until full settlement.
Pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him in having to arrange 
his own valuation report.
Neither party agreed with the investigators findings.
Mr H believed he had a market value policy and as such should be entitled to the full market 
value for his car. He also put forward an argument for needing to pay his representative. As 
well as him being entitled to reimbursement of what hed paid to get his own engineers 
report.
QIC felt that Mr Hs engineers report couldnt be considered independent as he had paid for 
it. And felt their engineer was better equipped to make an assessment on the value of the 
car.
The matter has been passed to me to decide. Before reaching my decision, I informed QIC 
that I also intended to uphold Mr Hs complaint but that I was likely to change the redress 
and gave them an opportunity to change their offer or give me any comments. QIC did 
answer me but didnt provide any new information, but just repeated their engineers original 
findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
 
Having read and considered the whole file, Ill be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why, 
but in doing so Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a 
specific point, its not because I havent considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Engineers reports and valuation
My role here is not to place a value on Mr Hs car but to decide if the value QIC has reached 
is fair. The usual approach to cases like this one is for the insurer to use a range of trade 
guides to find the market value of a car. However, in Mr Hs case thats not possible as his 
car is rare and bespoke so sales of this type of car are few and far between, meaning the 
guides do not return a value for it. So, the value has to be decided on the basis of engineers 
reports and market research in the form of most recent sales and current adverts. 
Both QIC and Mr H have provided engineers reports, QIC has argued that the engineers 
report provided by the consumer cannot be considered independent, as the consumers 
chosen to be represented on a risk and reward basis. However, I disagree, the consumer 
may have chosen to be represented and to pay for that representation but that does not call 
into question the independence of the engineers report, which was paid for separately by Mr 
H and is separate in nature to any risk and reward agreement between the consumer and his representative. And conversely if I accept QICs argument then I would have to accept 
that their engineer is equally not independent as they have paid for his opinion. So, I think 
this is a moot point and I accept the independence of both engineers reports.
QIC has also argued that its engineer is better equipped to make an assessment. From what 
I can see both engineers are comparative in terms of qualifications and background, but my 
role here is not to decide who has the best engineer, but to decide which report I find to be 
more persuasive.
In this case, I find the report provided by Mr Hs engineer to be more persuasive  I say this 
because the report is extensive in its research of the spec and quality of vehicle pre  
accident. There is also evidence provided in the form of receipts showing the work Mr Hs 
had done upgrading the vehicle. 
QIC maintain there was pre accident wear and tear to the inside of the vehicle but everything 
I have seen suggests the car has been lovingly cared for and has been the consumers 
pride and joy, so Im persuaded it was looked after and, in the condition, described in the 
report. I also have to consider the time the car was in QICs care but left to the elements as 
this may well have impacted the condition of the interior.
There are photos pre accident and even at the scene of the accident that show the vehicle 
to have been in good condition  barring the paint defect, these photos all contradict QICs 
own engineers report. The report does concede that the paintwork needs restoring and 
makes a deduction of £10,000 for this in the overall valuation of £60,000. 
Mr Hs report does look at adverts across the market and the valuation it places on the car 
falls somewhere in the mid-range of those adverts. QIC say many of the adverts are for cars 
that are in pristine condition and so should be discounted. But as Ive already explained Ive 
accepted the findings of the report in terms of pre-accident condition, so I think its fair to use 
the adverts.
In summary I find the report provided by Mr Hs engineer to be clear, fair and persuasive. So, 
it follows I think QIC need to increase the valuation of the car in line with it to £60,000. 
As the reports Mr H provided have resulted in an increase in the value of the car, I also think 
QIC need to reimburse Mr H the £550 he paid for them.
Policy limitation
The policy is a market Value policy  this is the most common type of policy in the 
marketplace. Most insurers have similar policy wording for this in that they will pay the 
market value of the car immediately prior to the loss. In QICs case they say they will pay the 
market value up to the value stated in the policy schedule, in this case £50,000.
This is unusual for a market value a policy and is a term that can only ever benefit the 
insurer, so I consider it to be unfair as it strikes an imbalance between the parties. 
QIC has been made aware of our stance on this term previously and so it shouldnt come as 
any surprise that Im saying they cant rely on it here. And so, they need to pay the full 
market value of £60,000 to Mr H in settlement of his claim, minus any interim payment they 
have already made towards this.
Distress and inconvenienceMr H would like the cost of his representation to be covered. However, this service does not 
pay for consumers having representation, this is a choice made by some consumers. But it 
is not necessary to have a representative in order to bring a complaint to this service to be 
considered. 
Having said that I do recognise that the overall service provided isnt what Id expect, and I 
think QIC could have done more to help move things forward more smoothly for Mr H. for 
example the market researcher they did to determine the value of the car was limited and I 
think they could have gone further with this without putting Mr H to the inconvenience of 
having to arrange his own engineer to inspect the vehicle and carry out the research. I think 
QIC should pay £250 for this.
Putting things right
QIC should now:
Pay MR H the full market value of £60,000 for the vehicle minus any excess and any 
interim payment it has already made. QIC will need to pay 8% simple interest on the 
residue amount from the time of the claim until the date of payment.
Pay Mr H £550 for the reports he provided plus 8% simple interest from the time he 
paid for the reports until QIC make the payment.
Pay £250 for the inconvenience and poor service 
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that QIC deduct tax from the interest paid to Mr H. If it does and 
Mr H requests it, QIC must provide him with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, so he may 
reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint about QIC 
Europe Limited and now require it to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting things 
right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman