DRN-3537950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc have told them incorrect 
information about why they received communications from them after they had made 
payments to existing payees.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H made an online payment to an existing payee on their account in December 
2021. They said the following day, they received a text message and an application (app) 
notification to state that the payee details had been changed, and if they didnt authorise the 
payment then they should contact NatWest immediately. 
Mrs H rang NatWest. She said the call handler told her she had amended something, but the 
call handler later agreed she hadnt amended anything. They said the call handler told them 
this was an error and they shouldnt have been sent the text/notification. 
Mr and Mrs H said that three months after this, they made an online payment to a different 
existing payee on their account. Again, they received an urgent notification that the payee 
details had changed and if it wasnt them, they needed to contact NatWest urgently. But they 
said they did not change the payee details. 
Mr and Mrs H emailed NatWests Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on 2 April 2022, explaining 
that this happened again. They later received a phone call from NatWest who told them they 
received incorrect information in December when they complained and that it was not an 
error then and that the notification was correct as it changed from a low value to a high 
value. Mr and Mrs H have said that the payment they had made was always £15. They say 
the call handler told them that they had turned on biometrics in the app in September and 
that was why they received the notifications, but Mr and Mrs H say they had paid the payee 
twice since they turned on the biometrics, without receiving the notification. They say the 
notifications are stressful and misleading. Mr and Mrs H made a complaint to NatWest.
NatWest said they had incorrectly advised that there was an error with the app after Mr and 
Mrs H had received a notification about a payee. They said it appeared that the information 
regarding the process was not readily available at that time as payments for biometrics had 
been recently introduced. NatWest said in respect to the April payment Mr and Mrs H made, 
previous payments to the payee were low value payments that were set up via the app. They 
said Mr and Mrs H requested to use NatWests biometrics feature so that this payee could 
be upgraded to a high level payee, which would allow them to make higher payment 
amounts to this payee in the future, over and above the previous limit of £1,000 which was in 
place prior to them registering for biometrics.
NatWest said that due to this background change to the payee details a notification was sent 
to Mr and Mrs H, even though the payee information had not been changed, the payee 
details in terms of the type of payee had been changed and thats why a notification was 
issued to Mr and Mrs H. They said Mr and Mrs H had registered for biometrics on or around 
18 September 2021 and made two payments to the payee in question on 7 October and 21 
October 2021. But these payments were made as low value payments as the biometrics for 
approval of payments had not been implemented and enabled in the mobile app at the time 
they made the payments. This is why Mr and Mrs H did not receive any notifications 
following these two payments. 
NatWest said if a payee had been set up as a low value payee using the app and a future 
payment within the app is made for the first time with the payee, then customers would be 
prompted to approve this request using biometrics if registered, and this in turn would issue 
a notification. They noted that biometrics had now been removed from the app. 
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. 
She said that she could see how the wording of the text/notifications wouldve made Mr and 
Mrs H worry and especially as they had already gone through this in December to be told the 
had been an error. Then when Mr and Mrs H spoke to NatWest recently they were told it 
was because the payment had been changed from a low to high value transaction. 
Our investigator said that NatWest will issue text messages when a payment is verified by a 
new method. So if a customer has registered for biometrics then any new payment they 
make  including those under £1,000 will be subject to a biometric security check, which 
includes payments to existing payees that have only previously been sent for payments less 
than £1,000. Therefore, when a customer pays an existing payee for the first time using 
biometrics, they are updated from a low value payment to a fully verified payee and subject 
to the maximum £20,000 payment limit. So, whilst no personal payee details may have been 
changed, the status and upper payment limit has. And their system cant identify whats 
specifically changed so they send a notification. Our investigator said £75 compensation was 
fair for the incorrect information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint as they were not happy 
with the compensation recommended. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr and Mrs H from the outset that Im unable to tell NatWest how they should 
operate their security processes, including when they send a text or notification, and the 
content of these communications, as these are commercial decisions that are up to NatWest 
with how they implement these.
Its clear to me that NatWest have let Mr and Mrs H down with how theyve explained the 
reason for them receiving a text/notification. Im persuaded that this led to further distress 
and led Mr and Mrs H to believe that NatWest were not telling them the truth as the 
reasoning had changed.
I say this as when Mrs H rang NatWest, she was originally told she had amended the payee, 
then she was told there was an error with the app. But neither of these explanations were 
accurate. Then she was told that it was because the payment had gone from a low value 
payment to a high value payment, but Mr and Mrs H have said they always paid £15 to the 
particular payee. They were also told the notification was a result of them opting in to use 
biometrics, but as Mr and Mrs H had highlighted, they had paid the payee twice since they 
had opted into using biometrics. Im persuaded that if Mr and Mrs H were told originally that the reason that they received a 
text/notification, was that the biometrics had not been fully implemented and enabled in the 
app at the time they had previously made the payments and now it was, then this may have 
reassured Mr and Mrs H that there was nothing to worry about. 
NatWest could have explained the reason for this change and explained that while Mr and 
Mrs H had not changed any of the payee details, the way they pay an existing payee using 
biometrics once it was fully active (including those which they had previously paid less than 
£1,000 to) had changed, and this is what triggered the notification. They could have been 
told to expect this for any future existing payees that they would pay for the first time using 
this method - after the biometrics had been fully implemented (which was scheduled for 26 
October 2021). Therefore Mr and Mrs H wouldve known what to expect months later when 
they paid £15 to an existing payee. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. I know Mr and Mrs H are 
not happy with the £75 compensation our investigator suggested. But it may help if I explain 
to Mr and Mrs H that compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we 
feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience 
to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we 
recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.
So Im persuaded that £75 compensation is fair here. Im satisfied it recognises the impact of 
Mr and Mrs H being told either incorrect information or not being given a full explanation of 
why they received the text messages/notifications. While NatWest have said this was initially 
because their call handlers didnt have this information at the time, it would be their 
responsibility to provide this to them, so Im not persuaded this would mitigate what Mrs H 
was told when she spoke to NatWest on the phone. This inconvenienced Mrs H by needing 
to contact NatWest for a second time months after the first time this happened and caused 
Mr and Mrs H distress. So it follows Ill be asking NatWest to put things right for Mr and Mrs 
H.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that NatWest pay Mr and Mrs H £75 which I think is fair in 
the circumstances. Im persuaded this reflects the impact on Mr and Mrs H for NatWest 
giving them either incorrect information or them not being given a full explanation of why 
they received the text messages/notifications.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs H £75 for 
inconvenience and distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman