DRN-3308108
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that Contractor Wealth, an appointed representative of Quilter Financial
Services Ltd (Quilter), didnt give him best advice, failed to provide information hed
requested and didnt make him aware that one of his existing pensions was invested at risk.
Mr R also says that Contractor Wealth failed to ensure his annuity was implemented
correctly and there was a delay in the tax free cash being paid. Further, Quilter didnt handle
his complaint fairly.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Rs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2022. 
I set out the background, Mr Rs complaint and our investigation. Ive repeated that below. I 
mentioned a telephone discussion on 3 January 2020. Later on I referred to that call having 
taken place on 2 January 2020. Ive corrected that to 3 January 2020.
Mr R had an initial discussion with Contractor Wealth on 9 December 2019. He explained
that he wanted advice on taking an income from his three personal pension plans held with
the same provider. He expected to take 25% tax free cash, leaving around £120,000 to
generate an income. Hed undertaken his own research and thought there were two options:
buy an annuity or arrange a drawdown plan. He wanted to understand which would be best
for him.
Contractor Wealth provided their terms of business and explained that theyd obtain
information from Mr Rs existing provider, ask Mr R to complete a form detailing his
circumstances and arrange a further call which was to take place in the new year.
Mr R signed and returned Contractor Wealths terms of business under cover of an email
dated 10 December 2019. In the email Mr R said hed signed the authority to proceed but
not the section about initial advice and ongoing service fees as he was unsure what services
hed require  for example, if he chose an annuity, he wouldnt need ongoing advice. Mr R
also completed and returned Contractor Wealths data capture form.
There was a discussion on 3 January 2020. It was identified that Mr R was looking for an
income to meet an expenditure shortfall of about £6,000 pa. The adviser said there were two
ways to do that  to guarantee that income by buying an annuity or setting up a flexi access
drawdown (FAD) arrangement. There was a discussion about annuity benefits and risks
versus FAD. The adviser said he didnt think the main benefits of FAD (flexible income and
inheritance considerations) applied in Mr Rs circumstances. And that an annuity would be
best, if it generated a sufficient level of income. Mr R also completed a risk questionnaire.
His answers indicated his attitude to risk was moderate.
The adviser called again on 20 January 2020 requesting some more information about one
of Mr Rs existing pension plans which the provider hadnt supplied.
The recommendation report was generated on 6 February 2020 and was based on an
enhanced annuity quotation from Mr Rs existing provider produced the day before with a
guarantee period expiring on 5 March 2020. The report was sent to Mr R on 18 February
2020.
On 19 February 2020 Mr R emailed the adviser. Mr R said he thought income drawdown
might give him a higher income (£8,000 pa rather than £6,400 pa) over twenty years.
Although hed need to re evaluate at age 85, hed expect to have the value of his property to
use then. A call to discuss the recommendation was arranged for 21 February 2020.
In that call Mr R indicated that he wasnt convinced the annuity would the best course of
action for him. He thought a similar level of income could be generated from drawdown
without any investment returns over a 20 year period. Part of his rationale for considering the
drawdown route was that hed expect car and health care expenses to cease by 85, so if the
pension did run out over 20 years, it wouldnt be a substantial issue. Mr R wanted to have a
better understanding of what drawdown, using low risk funds, would look like. The adviser
said that could be looked into. During the call Mr R said hed moved his existing pension
plans into cash approximately 18 months previously.
Ive seen that an illustration was generated on 28 February 2020 for a pension with a
different provider, flexibly drawing an income. But, as far as Im aware, Contractor Wealth
didnt provide any further advice or recommendations to Mr R by 1 March 2020 when he
emailed Contractor Wealth.
There was a telephone call on 2 March 2020. Mr R referred to recent stock market falls and
said that he didnt think income drawdown was a good idea at the present time and an
annuity was his only option. He was concerned that if he didnt accept the (enhanced)
annuity offered, a new quote could be lower. The adviser said hed been about to send Mr R
a report about drawdown. He commented that the FTSE was back up and he thought it
would be a relatively short term blip. There was a discussion about Mr Rs money being
held in cash. Mr R said hed checked online and there hadnt been any real change. The
adviser commented that he was sure from the research hed done initially that Mr Rs funds
were in cash. He went on to discuss the risk that annuity rates might fall (which he didnt
think was likely). He went on to say, about drawdown, that investing in risk based funds or in
cash were both problematic. He said hed get back to Mr R.
The adviser called again the following day. He said his advice was still to go for the annuity,
especially given recent market volatility. Mr R needed to bridge an income gap and the
annuity would do that. Mr R said he agreed but his only concern was that the income
wouldnt increase. The adviser said, although the annuity wouldnt increase with inflation,
lifestyle costs in retirement tended to decrease. The adviser asked if Mr R was happy to go
ahead with the annuity and Mr R confirmed he was. The adviser said hed get the paperwork
sorted out as quickly as possible, given that the quote was about to run out (although the
adviser added that he didnt think things would change much anyway).
Mr R completed the annuity application form on 4 March 2020 and returned it to Contractor
Wealth for onward transmission to the provider. Mr R didnt hear further by 9 March 2020
and emailed Contractor Wealth for confirmation the documentation had been received and
submitted. Contractor Wealth emailed Mr R on 9 March 2020 and again on 11 March 2020
to confirm that the provider had received the application documents and was processing the
transfers from his three existing policies.
I think Mr R then received information from the provider about the surrender of his three
pension plans. It seemed that one of the plans had fallen in value by some £8,300. Mr R
queried things with the adviser on 19 March 2020. But I dont think he heard back until 3
April 2020 when a new adviser called him. I think that may have been because the original
adviser had left Contractor Wealth.The new adviser told Mr R that his overall fund value had gone down and instead of getting
the income shown on the quotation - £6,412.08 pa  hed now only get £6,162.96 (some
£249.12 pa less). The adviser asked Mr R to confirm if he was still comfortable with going
ahead with the annuity purchase. Mr R said hed instructed the provider to switch all his
funds to cash and he didnt want to accept the reduced annuity if that meant he wouldnt be
able to complain about the failure to do that. The new adviser pointed out that Mr Rs overall
position might be better notwithstanding the recent fall in value, because hed have benefited
from earlier fund growth during the period when hed remained invested.
Amongst other things, Mr R said he hadnt gone ahead with the annuity when he got the
original recommendation report as it hadnt said anything about drawdown. Mr R said that
was what hed originally asked for and when it wasnt included in the report hed asked
again. The new adviser said he could revisit the advice to see if he could say that a
drawdown arrangement would be in Mr Rs best interests. Mr R said he wanted to compare
FAD with the annuity option. But, when the new adviser said hed tell the provider that Mr R
was declining the annuity offered, Mr R expressed concern that, if he decided he did want an
annuity, he might get less than the £6,162.96 pa currently on the table. The adviser said hed
check with the provider if the quotation was valid for a period.
During a second call drawdown was discussed, including the possibility of having a cash
based fund. Mr R indicated that drawdown had always been his preferred option. The
adviser said he could look at things again for Mr R. The adviser also said thered been errors
on Contractor Wealths part (for which he apologised) and by the provider. The new adviser
also told Mr R:
Ive spoken to my compliance director and spoken about the journey youve been on and
what he has said is basically weve done what we set out to do, however, I think there has
been obviously some wires crossed somewhere along the line in terms of understanding the
full requirements so I mean really technically we dont have to provide anything but as a
gesture of goodwill what we are going to do is provide you with a payment of 50% of what
youve paid us.
The new adviser emailed Mr R on 7 April 2020 with some further information about FAD,
including the likely costs and risks. The information the new adviser provided enabled Mr R
to carry out his own analysis of the annuity versus FAD. In his email of 8 April 2020 Mr R
said hed thought drawdown might be an option but he hadnt factored in management
charges but, having now done so, there was no advantage with drawdown over the annuity
offered. Mr R said hed decided to take the maximum tax free cash and the enhanced
annuity providing an income of £6,162 pa.
Mr R emailed Contractor Wealth on 20 April 2020 to say he hadnt heard further about the
annuity. The new adviser forwarded what hed received from the provider. Mr R received an
annuity income payment in April 2020. But there was a delay in paying the tax free cash
which Mr R had to contact the provider to resolve.
Mr Rs complaint and our investigation
Mr R complained about the service hed received from Contractor Wealth in May 2020.
Quilter looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr R didnt accept what Quilter had said
in its final response letter dated 27 May 2020. Mr R commented further by letter dated 13
July 2020. Quilter replied on 29 July 2020. But it didnt agree with Mr Rs comments.
Mr R referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary
he said:Mr R had pointed to what Contractor Wealths terms of business said in support of
his complaint that his existing pensions were invested at risk and, during the advice
process, fund values had fallen. But that term related to the need have enough cash
to cover short term expenditure and which had been discussed with Mr R.
Mr R had said expected information about income drawdown wasnt provided in the
recommendation report. But the adviser had explained (verbally) that, after obtaining
relevant information about Mr Rs circumstances and objectives, a recommendation
would be provided. The relevant term said:
Investment Advice and Recommendations Scope
Any investment advice your adviser provides will be based on your personal financial
circumstances and objectives. We will confirm these and the reasons for any
recommendation in a Suitability Advice Report.
Mr R had looked into both annuities and drawdown prior to his discussions with
Contractor Wealth. The adviser had collated information and had made a
recommendation. That was in line with industry practice  to provide a
recommendation and say what other options had been considered and discounted.
Different firms would provide varying amounts of information about the other
considerations.
In the call on [3] January 2020, the adviser explained he didnt think FAD was
appropriate and, if enough income could be obtained from an annuity, hed be likely
to recommend that. The recommendation report had a brief comment that, due to the
risks associated with drawdown, it wasnt suitable for Mr R. The explanation couldve
been expanded upon. But that didnt mean the recommendation was unsuitable.
The adviser couldve commented on what Mr R had said during one of the calls
about longevity risk and explained that, even in a near cash fund, thered be charges
and likely earlier exhaustion of the funds. But the adviser did say hed provide further
information about the drawdown option as it seemed Mr R wasnt persuaded that an
annuity was the best option for him.
It appeared that the falls in fund values in late February 2020 had prompted Mr R,
after discussion with the adviser, to accept the recommendation for an annuity.
Mr R was concerned the adviser hadnt recommended switching the existing funds to
cash. Mr R had been passing on to the adviser information about his existing pension
plans. If that included details of the underlying funds, then both Mr R and the adviser
ought to have been aware they werent all in cash. In the call on 21 February 2020
Mr R had said hed asked the provider to switch his funds to cash about 18 months
earlier. If that hadnt happened, that was something to raise with the provider. The
investigator didnt think an adviser would include a fund switch recommendation
when the advice was to arrange an annuity.
Any delay in paying Mr Rs tax free cash  the cancellation of the cheque and the
delay in arranging a bank transfer  was matter for the provider.
Quilter had acted fairly and reasonably during the complaints process.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators view. Mr R was concerned that we hadnt asked him if
he had any further evidence to be considered and he wasnt sure if wed taken into account
all the information hed provided. In particular, the investigator hadnt referred to Mr Rs
telephone calls with the new adviser whod taken over after the original adviser had left,
including the call where the new adviser said, having spoken with his compliance director,
the advice and service Mr R had received wasnt up to standard.
Mr R reiterated his complaints. Ive summarised his comments.
Contractor Wealth didnt inform him of the risk of holding one of his funds in a
highrisk vehicle or discuss that with him. Quilters letter of 27 May 2020 said the
advisers due diligence had revealed that one of Mr Rs pensions was still invested ina high risk fund. But that hadnt been communicated to Mr R. And Quilter had
rejected FAD because it seemed Mr R had no appetite for any potential investment
loss and wasnt willing to accept the risk that his pension fund could fall in value.
Hed had discussions with Contractor Wealths adviser in December 2019 and
January 2020 about annuities and drawdown. The adviser confirmed he was able to
advise about both. He agreed relevant information would be sent as part of the
suitability report to enable Mr R to make an informed decision.
The adviser hadnt discounted all income drawdown products. Two non annuity
products from two different providers were identified as suitable for Mr Rs
consideration. But detailed information wasnt provided and the reasons for
discounting these two acceptable products hadnt been explained. Mr R hadnt been
in a position to make an informed decision whether to reject those products.
In a telephone call on 18 February 2020 Mr R asked for the missing information to be
made available for the scheduled conversation on 21 February 2020. During that call
Mr R said, as the product information hadnt been made available, he couldnt make
an informed decision.
When, on 25 February 2020 the financial markets fell (and the fund value for the
pension which remained invested dropped by some £8,300), Mr R felt he had no
option but to accept the enhanced annuity, even though he was unsure if it was the
best financial option for him.
Mr R telephoned the adviser on 2 March 2020 to say he still hadnt received the
information. Mr R felt hed been backed into a corner. The enhanced annuity
quotation was only valid until 5 March 2020. Mr R says the adviser then processed
the annuity application knowing he hadnt provided promised information. Mr R was
sent annuity application forms on 4 March 2020 which he completed and returned the
same day.
Mr R received correspondence from the provider saying the transfer value of one of
his plans was £52,837.59. Contractor Wealths recommendations had been based on
a value of £61,144.16. On 20 March 2020 the adviser emailed Mr R to say, having
looked through the information about the plan that had fallen in value, hed seen that
Mr R remained invested (in a managed fund and an equities based fund), hence the
drop in the fund value.
It wasnt until April 2020 that Contractor Wealth Mr R that his actual annuity would be
£6,162.96 pa gross, as compared to the £6,412.08 indicated in the suitability report.
The outstanding product information still hadnt been provided.
Contractor Wealth hadnt fulfilled its contractual obligations to Mr R as regards
timeliness and quality of advice. The adviser hadnt complied with the regulators
conduct rules and Contractor Wealth had failed to oversee the adviser properly.
Thered also been a delay in the payment of Mr Rs tax free cash. The suitability
report said that the adviser would monitor the process to help ensure payments were
made as quickly as possible. And in his email of 19 February 2020 the adviser said
Contractor Wealth would do all the administration for [Mr R], that is part of the advice
 The terms of business said the investment would be made in a timely manner and
in accordance with Contractor Wealths best execution policy.
Mr R requested sight of the two drawdown quotations, without which the appropriate
remedy for financial loss and distress couldnt be determined and it had become
clear which retirement product Mr R shouldve chosen based on his circumstances at
the time.
The investigator considered the points made by Mr R. The investigator explained that,
although Mr Rs dealings had been with Contractor Wealth and not Quilter, Contractor
Wealth was an appointed representative and its principal Quilter was responsible and had
dealt with the complaint. Any requests for information were made to Quilter not Contractor
Wealth. Mr R and Contractor Wealth had had the opportunity to submit information and theinvestigator had to decide if he had all the information he needed to say how he thought the
complaint should be resolved. That didnt necessarily mean he had to see a copy of every
item of Mr Rs correspondence with Contractor Wealth. The investigator had obtained and
listened to the recordings of Mr Rs calls with the new adviser. But he hadnt changed his
view. The investigators main points were:
The (new) adviser had explained that ordinarily options for a customer wouldnt be
listed but advice would be given. In the call where a refund of half Contractor
Wealths fees was offered, Contractor Wealth hadnt said it wasnt satisfied with the
advice given. The comments were about a misunderstanding between Mr R and the
adviser as the service that would be provided.
The term Mr R had referred to wasnt about pension holdings but about having cash
to meet emergency costs.
The suitability report said drawdown had been discounted as Mr R didnt want to
accept investment risk. The adviser didnt consider drawdown was suitable. As the
adviser had made clear in a telephone call, information on all options wouldnt be
provided but a recommendation would be made, which the adviser had done.
Additional comments couldve been included to explain that the risks of drawdown
werent just investment risk. But the recommendation for an annuity was suitable,
The provider had failed to carry out Mr Rs instructions to move the funds into cash.
As discussed, that might not have caused a loss but the investment growth which
contributed to the higher value when the advice process begun might have been lost.
Mr R expected to get a comparison of various options. But the terms of business said
the adviser would advise and make a recommendation. Which he did, after
assessing Mr Rs needs. There was no commitment to provide a detailed breakdown
of each of Mr Rs options.
The advice process had taken longer than expected. But that was due to Mr Rs
requirement for an analysis of a drawdown option. An illustration for a drawdown plan
had been generated but that was typical practice when exploring options.
It would be unusual for drawdown funds to be held at no investment risk  thered be
an increased risk of inflation and charges eroding the fund. Typically drawdown is an
option where an element of investment risk was accepted. With that in mind, the
recommendation to purchase an annuity was suitable.
Contractor Wealth had accepted that they couldve explained more clearly from the
outset that theyd provide advice and not a range of options for Mr R to select from.
The goodwill offer to refund half of their fee (which was over £400) was generous.
Mr R replied substantively on 12 August 2021. He enclosed a letter to Contractor Wealth
dated 6 May 2020, a letter to Quilter dated 13 July 2020, an email to dated 10 December
2019 and drawdown notes. Ive read and considered Mr Rs comments in their entirety but
what follows is a summary of some of his main points.
The suitability report included a recommendation that, as he was about to purchase
an annuity, he consider switching his funds into low risk cash based funds to protect
against falls in the stock market while his annuity application was begin processed.
And, if he wanted to do that, he should let the adviser know. Hed completed a letter
of authority for each of his three pension plans to allow the adviser to obtain
information. Had he been made aware there was a potential problem, he couldve
called the provider to resolve it immediately. Instead, when the financial markets fell,
one of his pension plans sustained an avoidable substantial loss.
Contractor Wealth hadnt provided him, on a timely basis, with the agreed information
about drawdown and which hed contracted the adviser to provide on 9 December
2019. Having undertaken his own research, believed he had two options  an
annuity or income drawdown. His experience in the pensions industry gave him adetailed understanding of the process. Hed specified on numerous occasions, the
specific advice he required  to decide between an annuity and income drawdown.
Hed queried the suitability report on the basis that drawdown might provide him with
an income of about £8,000 for 20 years, until he was 85 by which time hed have the
value of his property to use. In the telephone call on 21 February 2020 hed said, on
that basis and without the information hed previously requested, he was unable to
accept the annuity proposal. The adviser said hed see what he could do.
The risk profiler hed completed said hed consider risk, provided he understood that
risk. Saying that he wanted to take no risk at all wasnt in accordance with the
documentary evidence.
The adviser understood Mr R had detailed investment knowledge, but not detailed
product knowledge and assured Mr R he was qualified to advice on both annuities
and FAD. That was the reason Mr R had appointed him.
Mr R had researched FAD and (based on historic low annuity rates and his possibly
shortened life expectancy) thought it was suitable for him. The adviser confirmed
hed provide relevant details so that Mr R could make an informed choice. As no
analysis of the drawdown process was ever provided, it cant have been the reason
for any delay. And the recommendation was unsuitable due to historically low annuity
rates and because of Mr Rs health conditions and the fact that the annuity would
cease on his death and his estate wouldnt benefit.
The single recommendation ignored his specific circumstances and the advisers
agreed contractual obligation to provide the product information he agreed to provide
in order that Mr R could make an informed decision.
The adviser said hed do all the administration and monitor the payment of the tax
free cash and the setting up of the annuity.
I went on to set out what Id provisionally decided and why. Ive repeated that here. Again 
Ive corrected my reference to the call on 2 January 2020 to 3 January 2020.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr R feels very strongly about whats happened. I understand it has caused
him considerable stress. Im sorry if he feels our involvement has added to that. Ive read
and considered everything hes said. And Ive examined Mr Rs dealings with Contractor
Wealth, including his emails and telephone conversations with both advisers, in detail. I may
not have mentioned each and every exchange but Ive referred to what I consider to be key.
Having done so, my views arent exactly the same as the investigators. I do agree with
some of the points made by Mr R. But, given the offer made by Contractor Wealth, I dont
think it needs to do anything more to resolve Mr Rs complaint. I dont expect Mr R to agree.
Ive explained below my reasoning. Ive first made some more general comments about how
we work.
Mr R has referred to what we say on our website about how we handle complaints about
pensions and annuities. We do look at the facts and circumstances and listen to what the
complainant and the business have to say before reaching what we consider to be a fair and
reasonable outcome in the particular circumstances of the complaint. But the fact that we
might not uphold a complaint or might only uphold it in part doesnt mean that we havent
been impartial or that we havent considered what a party has said and all the supporting
information and evidence. Its the nature of our work that one party is likely to be
disappointed with the outcome.The complaint has been correctly set up against Quilter for the reasons the investigator has
explained. Contractor Wealth isnt directly authorised but is an appointed representative of
Quilter. It is responsible for what its appointed representative did (or didnt do).
Mr R has suggested he might want to pursue a complaint against the adviser personally. Our
compulsory jurisdiction (in so far as is relevant here) covers firms. A firm is a financial
business that is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority or the Prudential Regulation
Authority to carry on one or more regulated activities. Contractor Wealth isnt directly
authorised but is an appointed representative of Quilter, who is authorised and regulated
and, as Ive said, ultimately responsible for Contractor Wealth. Weve looked into Mr Rs
complaint as against Contractor Wealth/Quilter, not the adviser personally.
Mr R has queried Quilters independence. But Quilter isnt independent. Its the respondent
to the complaint. Generally speaking, we can only consider a complaint thats been referred
to the business concerned and a final response received. Its only fair, if something has
gone wrong, to allow the business an opportunity to put things right before we get involved.
And its to be expected that a business will seek defend its position if it doesnt consider it
has done anything, or much, wrong. Quilter looked into Mr Rs concerns. Quilter agreed (as
Ive discussed further below) thered been some confusion and made an offer to Mr R. I dont
think theres anything wrong with how Quilter dealt with Mr Rs complaint. Mr R remained
unhappy and so referred it to us for an independent assessment and one of our investigators
looked into what had happened.
The investigator explained his reasons for his view by reference to the written and verbal
evidence hed seen. We wont refer to each and every document or other piece of evidence.
Well consider everything but well focus on what we see as the central issues and the key
evidence relating to those.
When an investigator sends a view they specifically ask if theres further information either
party thinks we should see. In response to the investigators view Mr R said that we should
consider the phone calls hed had with the new adviser. The investigator did that but he
didnt change his view.
Im issuing a provisional decision so that both parties, and in particular Mr R, are aware as to
how I see the complaint and to give both parties an opportunity to provide further evidence
and/or say why they dont agree with what Ive said. In reaching my (provisional) findings Ive
read and considered everything. Ive also listened to Mr Rs calls with the original and the
new adviser.
I dont disagree that the adviser had contractual and other (for example, regulatory)
obligations to Mr R. Or that any failure to provide an acceptable level of service might
amount to negligence on the advisers part. But theres considerable overlap and I dont think
its necessary to consider each of those allegations separately and when the advisers
central duty was to provide suitable advice to Mr R.
Mr R says, having done his own research, he wanted detailed advice about two options 
annuity purchase and FAD  so that he could make an informed decision. And that hed
engaged Contractor Wealth to provide detailed advice about each option. I note that, during
his initial call with Contractor Wealth, Mr R said he thought his options were, after taking tax
free cash, to use the residual fund to buy an annuity or set up an income drawdown plan.
And thats where he was really looking for advice, unless there was anything hed missed.
But I dont think that translates into a specific contractual obligation to provide detailed
advice about each option.What Mr R said set the background to the advice. But in my view Contractor Wealths
contractual obligations were somewhat broader. Mr Rs contract with Contractor Wealth was
set out in the terms of business. They said, about investment advice, that the adviser would
make a recommendation after assessing Mr Rs needs. The advice was restricted to suitable
investment and pension products from a panel of leading insurance companies. Contractor
Wealth agreed to look into Mr Rs circumstances and objectives and then make a
recommendation which, in accordance with Contractor Wealths regulatory obligations, had
to be suitable for Mr R.
During the call on [3] January 2020 it was identified that Mr R was looking for an income to
meet an expenditure shortfall of about £6,000 pa. The adviser said there were two ways to
do that  to guarantee that income by buying an annuity or setting up a FAD arrangement.
There was a discussion about annuity benefits and risks versus FAD. The adviser said he
didnt think the main benefits of FAD (flexible income and inheritance considerations) applied
in Mr Rs circumstances and he thought an annuity would be best, if it generated a sufficient
level of income. Towards the end of the call the adviser repeated that an annuity would be
the way to go as it would generate sufficient income.
I dont think thats unreasonable. And Mr R didnt disagree. He said the annuity should be on
a single life basis, potentially increasing in line with inflation. The adviser agreed that there
was no need for a joint life annuity but pointed out that inflation linked or other increases
were relatively expensive. So it seemed, at that stage at least, there was largely consensus
and Mr R was in agreement with the annuity route. At the very least he didnt stress the need
for detailed consideration of both options. Against that background, I think its perhaps
unsurprising that the recommendation letter focused on annuity purchase. It said, because
Mr R had indicated he didnt want to take any investment risk, having a guaranteed income
was the right option.
Mr R has challenged that, saying that the risk profiler he completed indicated that he might
be prepared to take some degree of risk. I note too what hes said about his investment
experience. A questionnaire is a commonly used tool in assessing attitude to investment
risk. But wed expect to see that the answers given and outcome generated are discussed.
That can result in in the outcome being modified. If it was clear from conversations that Mr R
wasnt really prepared to take any investment risk with these particular pension plans, then I
dont think the adviser was wrong to proceed accordingly. And I dont think the fact that one
of Mr Rs existing pension funds remained invested demonstrates that Mr R was willing to
accept investment risk when it seems hed instructed a switch to cash some time earlier.
I dont think Contractor Wealth was obliged to provide detailed information about something
which had been discussed with Mr R, even if somewhat briefly, and which the adviser had
fairly quickly ruled out as not being suitable for Mr R. I agree with the investigator that
drawdown carries other risks, such as fund erosion, which couldve been explained to Mr R
to support the conclusion that a drawdown arrangement wasnt suitable for him and he didnt
need the benefits it carried. But an annuity was, on the face of it, suitable for Mr R.
I note Mr Rs concerns about health conditions and the impact on life expectancy which
might make FAD more attractive. An annuity, in the absence of any guarantee period or
provision for a dependent, ceases on death and theres no residual payment to the
annuitants estate. But its clear that Mr R was aware of that. Those issues (and the risk of
inflation) had been discussed during the earlier telephone call. And Mr Rs health conditions
were taken into account as he was buying an enhanced annuity. I think theres also
something in the new advisers comment about not providing a list of options. Theres a
distinction between giving information and providing advice. The latter usually involves a
recommendation or an opinion expressed as to what a client, given their particular
circumstances, objectives etc, should do. Simply giving information can cause confusion andleave a client unsure as to what is being recommended.
Contractor Wealths overriding duty, whether analysed in contract terms or looking at the
advisers obligations under the COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) rules (for example,
under COBS 9.2.1R) was to provide suitable advice to Mr R. I think Contractor Wealths
recommendation report did that, based on what Contractor Wealth understood Mr Rs
objectives were and what had been discussed. I think the recommendation - to buy an
annuity to secure a guaranteed income for life to meet the income shortfall identified  was
suitable for Mr R.
But I think things changed somewhat after Mr Rs email of 19 February 2020 and the follow
up telephone call on 21 February 2020. During that call Mr R said that most of what the
adviser had said was in line with what hed been expecting from his own research. But from
what he went on to say it seems he didnt feel the option of FAD had been fully explored.
And he wanted to know if he could set up a drawdown arrangement which paid him a fixed
income each year and invested in low risk funds. I think Mr R made it clear he wasnt
convinced that an annuity would be best for him and he needed further information. Although
the adviser maintained that, as Mr R was looking to meet an income shortfall, an annuity
providing a guaranteed income was the best way of doing that, the adviser said hed look
into things further and he was happy to redo the paperwork and look at a drawdown facility
for Mr R.
But, from what Ive seen the adviser didnt get back to Mr R. Or not promptly at least. Instead
Mr R was left to contact the adviser in early March 2020 when the guarantee period for the
enhanced annuity quotation was about to expire. It seems the adviser had been working on
a drawdown report and was about to send it to Mr R. The adviser may have thought things
wouldnt change much (because annuity rates were unlikely to fall and Mr Rs existing
pensions were in cash). But I think the adviser shouldve known there was some urgency
given the guarantee period and that, if Mr R was going to be confident about accepting the
enhanced annuity quotation, he needed the further information and the FAD analysis hed
requested and which the adviser had said hed look into.
Ive considered very carefully the call on 3 March 2020. Mr R says he was forced into a
decision. I can sort of understand why he might say that. The information about drawdown
hadnt been provided. And the financial markets had fallen on 25 February 2020 (although it
seems a week or so later had recovered somewhat). Things were uncertain and Mr R felt he
needed to act quickly to secure the enhanced annuity by the guarantee date to ensure he
wasnt adversely affected by a reduction in annuity rates and/or further market volatility. But I
think he did have a meaningful discussion with the adviser about whether hed be doing the
right thing by going for the annuity and agreed that was what he should do.
It seems, given the discussion about his existing pensions being held in cash, Mr R didnt
know then about the fall in value of one of his funds. I think he only found that out later. And
it wasnt until the new adviser telephoned him on 3 April 2020 that Mr R became aware that
his annuity would be less  instead of the £6,412.08 pa hed been expecting, hed only be
getting £6,162.96.
Mr R didnt have to accept the new, lower, amount. During the call the new adviser
confirmed that the drawdown option remained open to Mr R. And the new adviser was, fairly
quickly, able to provide the FAD information that Mr R had been seeking. That allowed Mr R
to undertake his own analysis and to confirm, in his email of 8 April 2020, that there was no
advantage with drawdown over the annuity offered and hed decided to take the maximum
tax free cash and the enhanced annuity providing an income of £6,162 pa.
Id only be able to consider compensation for financial loss if I thought Mr R had acted to hisfinancial detriment by accepting the annuity quotation. I think the annuity recommendation
was suitable for him. I dont think hes suffered financially as a result of accepting the annuity
quotation even though the circumstances in which that happened werent ideal. In the end
he did get the information hed requested and he came to his own conclusion that the
annuity, even though he was going to get less than the amount originally quoted, was best
for him.
I note Mr Rs request for sight of the drawdown quotations. I think thats on the basis that, if
either of those wouldve been suitable for him, theyd need to be taken into account in
determining what redress was payable to him. But that presupposes a finding that Contractor
Wealth didnt give Mr R suitable advice. I dont think Contractor Wealths recommendation
that Mr R buy an enhanced annuity was unsuitable. So, any comparison between what his
position wouldve been if hed gone down the drawdown route falls away and I dont think the
quotations are relevant.
I recognise that Mr R has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of Contractor
Wealths delay in providing the further details about FAD that Mr R made clear he wanted
after he got the suitability report. And that Mr R had to chase things up. I think there may
also have been a further delay between 19 March 2020, Mr R having contacted the adviser
to find out what was happening, and 3 April 2020 when the new adviser got back to Mr R. As
Ive said, that might have been because the original adviser had by then left. I also note that
the original recommendation report was issued on 18 February 2020 which meant time was
already somewhat short, given that the enhanced annuity quotation had been issued on 6
February 2020 and was only guaranteed until 5 March 2020. Ive borne those delays in mind
in thinking about if further compensation, over and above the refund offered, should be paid.
Mr R is also unhappy that one of his existing pension plans fell in value during the advice
process. Hes pointed to Contractor Wealths terms and conditions which included the
following:
As with most investments there is a risk of loss, especially in the short-term (over periods of
less than five years). If you need access to your money in the very short-term, then
holding it in a risk-free bank account could be the right course of action. We will discuss
these options with you (Mr Rs emphasis)
Mr R has taken that term largely in isolation. I dont think it applies directly to the situation
hes concerned about. I think its more to do with, and as the investigator suggested, the
need to bear in mind that a need for cash might arise. The possibility that Mr R might need to
access funds in the short term was discussed with him. The suitability report confirms what
was discussed over the telephone  about retaining three to six months expenditure in cash
to cover unexpected short term expenditure  and that Mr Rs savings and other investments
meant he had adequate, readily available funds in the event of an emergency.
The investigator said he wouldnt normally expect an adviser, where the advice was to
arrange an annuity, to recommend fund switches. Im not sure I agree, at least in terms of
considering switching to cash. I think, where annuity purchase is contemplated, an adviser
should point out that, during the purchase process, fund values could rise but might fall and
that, if an investor wants to protect against market falls and lock in the accumulated fund
value, switching to cash would be prudent. An investor may decide against as, in doing so,
theyll lose out on any market gains. But, generally, I think an adviser should point out the
risks of remaining invested. And it seems the adviser did that  the suitability report says
As you are shortly going to purchase your annuity with your pension funds, I recommend
that you consider switching your fund(s) into low-risk cash-based funds in the interim.
This will help preserve the value of your funds from falls in the stock market while your
annuity application is being processed. Should you wish to do so please let me know.I havent seen that Mr R gave the adviser any instruction to switch to cash. I assume that
was because he thought that his three existing pension funds had already been switched to
cash some time ago  as indeed two of them had been. But for some reason the provider
hadnt done that for one of the plans. I think Mr R shouldve checked that his instruction had
been acted on for all three plans. I assume hed have got annual statements which wouldve
shown that one plan remained invested  in a managed fund and an equities based fund. He
also had online access too. Hed have seen fund growth which he wouldnt have expected if
the fund was held in cash. I think Mr R would or shouldve known that his instruction to
switch to cash hadnt been acted on for one of his pensions.
Quilter says the adviser did see that one of Mr Rs pension funds was still invested but didnt
have the authority to request a switch to a cash fund. If that was the case then, given Mr R
had told the adviser that hed switched everything to cash previously, I can see the argument
that the adviser shouldve pointed out to Mr R that didnt seem to have happened. But, from
the telephone conversation on 2 March 2020, it seems the adviser thought Mr Rs funds
were all in cash so its somewhat unclear what the adviser knew.
In any event, I maintain that Mr R shouldve checked that his instruction had been carried out
and/or seen that one fund remained invested. And it looks the information (or some of it at
least) that Contractor Wealths adviser wanted about Mr Rs existing plans came to Mr R and
he passed it on to the adviser. Mr R wouldve had an opportunity to review it, including
checking that his all three funds were held in cash. And, as Ive said, it seems he had online
access too and that he was monitoring his funds. All in all, I dont think the adviser is
responsible for the fall in the value of the fund that hadnt been switched to cash.
Mr R has indicated that he might want to complain to the provider about its failure to act on
his instruction to switch all three plans to cash. As has been point out, it may be that Mr R
wont have suffered any financial loss but he may say that hes still been inconvenienced
and that finding out what had (or rather hadnt) happened caused stress. Im only
considering here Mr Rs complaint about Contractor Wealth. Im not making any findings
about any other party. If Mr R wants to complain about the provider, hell need to raise a
formal complaint to that business. If it cant be resolved he may wish to ask us to consider it.
Any complaint will be subject to a separate investigation.
Lastly, Mr R has said there was a delay in the payment of his tax free cash. I note what Mr R
says about the onus (and contractual obligation) being on Contractor Wealth to ensure the
smooth crystallisation of Mr Rs retirement funds, including the payment of his tax free cash,
in a timely and efficient way. But I agree with Contractor Wealth that, once a request for
payment of tax free cash and an annuity application are made, paying the benefits is largely
down to the provider. I think an adviser can, and as Contractor Wealth agreed to do, monitor
the process and, if necessary, try and chase things up. It seems that the new adviser did
that. He liaised with the provider to ascertain where Mr Rs funds were and whether the
annuity rate in the original quotation would be honoured. I think any delay in payment is a
something that Mr R may wish to consider pursuing with the provider.
To sum up, although I think the annuity recommendation was suitable and I dont think
Contractor Wealth is responsible for the fall in the value of one of Mr Rs plans, Ive identified
some shortcomings on Contractor Wealths part. It accepts that its service couldve been
better. I note here what the new adviser told Mr R about his conversation with Contractor
Wealths compliance director. I also think its clear, from the new advisers other comments
in telephone calls with Mr R, that the new adviser felt that thered been a failure to provide
information which Mr R had made clear he wanted (at least from 19 February 2020) and
which was wasnt difficult to supply. But, as Ive said, the new adviser was able to resolve
that.Although I dont think Mr R has suffered any financial loss, I recognise hes suffered distress
and inconvenience. But I think Contractor Wealths offer to refund half of the fee he paid. I
think Mr R paid £947 in fees to Contractor Wealth. So the offer represents a refund of
£473.50. I think thats fair and reasonable and at least as much as Id award for the trouble
and upset caused by Contractor Wealths delays and any other failings.
Responses to my provisional decision
Quilter said it had nothing to add. Mr R responded in detail. He said I hadnt referred to three 
pieces of key evidence: page 1 of the suitability report; an information request; and emails in 
December 2019 about fees. I confirm Ive seen and considered all of those. 
Mr R said his overall complaint was that the standard of service hed received was so poor 
that the adviser had failed to meet the regulatory and professional standards, including the 
FCAs (Financial Conduct Authority) Principles for Businesses (PRIN), its fair treatment of 
customers provisions and the six consumer outcomes. Mr R also said the adviser had acted 
in breach of his legal (contractual and common law, including fiduciary) duties and hed been 
negligent. Ive set out below Mr Rs five complaints, with a summary of his main points. Ive 
read and considered everything, even if I havent referred to each and every comment Mr R 
has made. 
Mr R also referred to what hed said earlier as to how things should be resolved. He said 
hed asked for sight of two documents  the illustrations from LV and Old Mutual Wealth  so 
it was clear which product he shouldve chosen and his financial loss could be determined. 
Weve now provided Mr R with a copy of the Old Mutual Wealth illustration. And weve 
explained that no illustration from LV was obtained. Weve also provided a copy of a fund 
sheet which we hadnt earlier supplied. 
And, as mentioned further below in connection with complaint 1, we told Mr R that Id 
reconsidered what Id said in my provisional decision about that aspect of the matter, Mr R 
having said that Id misunderstood the facts. We gave Mr R an opportunity to comment on 
my further thoughts and he did comment further. Again Ive considered all he said, even if I 
havent referred to everything.    
Complaint 1: Contractor Wealth didnt make him aware that one of his existing pensions was 
invested at risk 
Mr R says the adviser acted in breach of contract and/or his fiduciary duty and his statutory 
obligations under FSMA (Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, as amended) by failing 
to perform his work with reasonable skill and care evidenced by:
The information request shows that Contractor Wealth was collating information to 
review his existing pension plans. 
Quilter had said that the adviser did see that one of them was invested. 
The suitability report contained a non specific recommendation or generic statement 
(which is probably included in all reports) about switching to a cash fund. But it didnt 
say that one of Mr Rs funds was still invested, nor was that mentioned during the 
discussion on 21 February 2020. 
The specific risk wasnt discussed with Mr R - even though hed said he required 
more information before he could make an informed decision and so hed be further 
increasing his exposure to the collapse of the markets on 25 February 2020. 
Contractor Wealth asked for the forms to transfer the pension to another provider but 
Mr R wasnt asked to make an interim transfer to a cash fund to mitigate the risk of his fund falling in value. 
Mr R said that Contractor Wealths adviser failed in his statutory duty to perform his work 
with reasonable skill and care. Id said it was somewhat unclear what the adviser knew. Mr R 
said that he felt that, throughout our investigation, wed failed to challenge what Quilter had 
said. Contractor Wealth had information which shouldve been shared or specifically drawn 
to Mr Rs attention. That evidence helped Mr R but wed dismissed it. Hed suffered actual 
financial loss: £2,060.71 tax free cash and £249.12 pa on his annuity. 
Some of what Id said was factually incorrect. Id said that information (or some of it at least) 
that the adviser wanted about his existing plans had come to Mr R and hed passed it on to 
the adviser. Mr R said that hadnt included any information about the pension that remained 
invested. And, contrary to what Id said, Mr R didnt have online access. 
Mr R went on to explain what had happened. In April 2018 hed instructed Scottish Widows 
to transfer all three of his pension funds to cash. That was done for two of them. But no full 
cash option was available for the stakeholder pension plan so Mr R agreed it could be 
transferred into a fund with underlying cash assets. After the changes had been made his 
portfolio was held 65.1% cash and 34.9% cash-based assets. When the recommendation 
report was prepared (6 February 2020), the cash assets had decreased by £785.84, and the 
cash based assets had increased by £4,493.67. Hed instructed an independent financial 
adviser to provide contractually agreed pensions advice. He couldnt have transferred the 
funds to his bank account and I hadnt explained how anyone who wasnt an expert in 
pensions could make a short term transfer, whereas an adviser would make such transfers 
on a daily basis. 
As Ive said above, I considered this aspect of the matter again and we shared with Mr R my 
further thoughts. I apologised that Id misunderstood what had happened. I accepted that 
information about the pension in question, the stakeholder plan, hadnt been routed through 
Mr R and that he hadnt had on line access. Id thought that Scottish Widows had failed to 
carry out his fund switch instruction. But it seemed that wasnt the case. Scottish Widows 
only offered, for its stakeholder pension, a cash based fund which carried some risk to 
capital. To access another cash fund, Mr R wouldve needed to transfer to another product 
which he couldnt have done without assistance from the adviser and who, Mr R had 
suggested, wouldve been used to undertaking that type of interim transfer regularly. 
Id considered that very carefully. But I didnt agree that a transfer shouldve been 
recommended and implemented. A transfer is different from a fund switch which is usually 
easy and quick to arrange. Mr R had already switched to the cash based fund and there was 
no other cash or deposit fund available. We wouldnt normally expect a recommendation to 
transfer to a different product where an annuity purchase appears likely and fairly imminent.
Mr R had said there was going to be some delay as he wanted further information about 
other options. Which is understandable  an annuity purchase is a one off decision and so 
he needed to be comfortable he was making the right choice. But, even so, an annuity 
purchase might only have been a few weeks away. Thered be limited point in transferring to 
a different product. 
Unfortunately the markets fell and some of the gains Mr R had made were lost. But market 
movements cant be predicted. And, regardless of what forms the adviser had, and even if 
either of Mr Rs other Scottish Widows plans couldve accepted a transfer, the adviser 
wouldnt have been able to have undertaken a transfer without making a recommendation 
and getting Mr Rs instructions. And a further fee might have been payable. My view was 
that a transfer wasnt justified.  In response, Mr R said that no independent financial adviser wouldve recommended a 
transfer as the costs would normally be prohibitive for a short term investment. But he 
wanted evidence that Contractor Wealths adviser had investigated his specific investment 
circumstances before advising (in the suitability report) that Mr R consider switching to low 
risk cash based funds in the interim. If there was no evidence, then the advice given didnt 
fulfil the advisers legal, contractual or professional obligations or his duty of client care. 
 
Mr R also wanted evidence that Contractor Wealth had investigated that investment advice, 
given the advisers due diligence had identified that one of Mr Rs pensions was in a high 
risk fund. And whether the adviser had complied with his duty of care by not pointing out 
(other than the non specific advice in the suitability report) the risks of remaining invested, 
especially given that Mr R wanted clarification of the LV non annuity option and which he 
needed to make a timely and informed decision. 
 
Complaint 2: Contractor Wealth didnt give him best advice and failed to provide information 
hed requested
Mr R said Contractor Wealths adviser had acted in breach of contract and had failed to 
communicate in a way which was clear, fair and not misleading. The suitability report 
recommended two retirement options: an annuity and a blended retirement solution from 
LV. The report concluded by saying Mr R should make sure he understood the content 
which would be discussed in detail but, if he was unsure about anything, he should contact 
the adviser. No details of the non annuity option were provided to allow him to make a 
timely, informed decision. And an illustration for another, non annuity, option from Old Mutual 
Wealth was also obtained but hadnt been disclosed to him. Until hed seen the information 
about the other options, he couldnt verify if what he termed his enforced investment (the 
annuity he bought) was right for him or if hed suffered additional financial loss. 
He referred to his telephone call on 18 February 2020 and his email on 19 February 2020. 
Hed asked for details of the LV Retirement Account in advance of discussion scheduled for 
21 February 2020. But that information - the advice Mr R was missing to understand the 
options proposed  wasnt provided. He wasnt told that his request for that information was 
outside the scope of his contract with Contractor Wealth or that he needed to pay a further 
fee  he referred to the emails about fees. He said he was unable to make an informed 
decision and the adviser was fully aware of that. I wasnt correct to say he needed the FAD 
analysis. What he actually wanted was information about the blended solution. 
Mr R telephoned the adviser on 2 March 2020 because he hadnt received the further 
information and he felt he was backed into a corner with the annuity quotation only valid 
until 5 March 2020. By then the markets had slumped. Because of that and the uncertainty 
of the situation, Mr R felt he had no choice but to accept the annuity, even though he was 
still unsure if it was the best option for him. 
Contractor Wealth proceeded to process the annuity application, despite knowingly not 
having provided the promised information or revised annuity figures. Mr R said hed asked 
the investigator to confirm the situation  where a client had been forced into a decision 
despite an adviser not delivering sufficient information in a timely way and in accordance 
with the contract  had been raised internally as part of Quilters internal control procedures. 
As he hadnt had any reply about that, Mr R was unsure if wed fully investigated it as part of 
our investigation into Contractor Wealths conduct.
Mr R describes himself as being from then onwards in loss mitigation mode to minimise his 
exposure to future falls in his pension. It wasnt possible for me to say he hadnt suffered 
financially as a result of accepting the annuity quotation. His adviser hadnt discounted all 
income drawdown products and had in fact identified two non annuity pension products as suitable. But detailed information wasnt provided and the reasons for discounting those two 
acceptable products hadnt been explained. Without evidence of those options he couldnt 
know if the annuity was the correct decision.
 
Mr R said the adviser had a contractual obligation to provide detailed advice about both of 
the options hed recommended. Mr Rs contract with Contractor Wealth (set out in the terms 
of business) provided that said that the adviser would make a recommendation after 
assessing Mr Rs needs. The advice was restricted to suitable investment and pension 
products from a panel of leading insurance companies. Two suitable products from leading 
insurance companies had been recommended. He hadnt been given full details of the 
second recommendation and he didnt have sufficient information to make an informed 
decision on 21 February 2020. The adviser knew that and refused to provide details of the 
second recommendation. What Id said about the non annuity option being having been 
ruled out was wrong  in fact the adviser had specifically recommended it. But had then 
failed to provide details. 
Mr Rs view was that the adviser had acted in breach of the FCAs rules. The 
recommendation offered two suitable options. Full details of the annuity were provided but 
not for the LV Retirement Account. That meant the adviser had recommended an investment 
knowing he was unable to justify its suitability. And hed failed to communicate in a way 
which was clear fair and not misleading. Either the adviser was negligent by making the non 
annuity recommendation or he failed to provide an acceptable level of service by not fully 
explaining both options in time for Mr R to make an informed decision on 21 February 2020. 
Overall Mr R said he hadnt received the holistic advice hed expected and which was 
contractually agreed. Or the level of service hed expected from a professionally qualified 
independent financial adviser and for which hed paid. The areas hed wanted help with 
hadnt been addressed. Hed asked for clarification on a limited number of points to make 
sure he understood the advice he was being given and so he could make a one off, lifetime, 
decision about his personal pension. Hed been forced to make an avoidable uninformed 
decision, because of the collapse of the financial markets on the 25 February 2020. 
As Ive said above, weve since clarified that no illustration was obtained from LV. Mr R says 
he assumed that a simple mistake had been made by not enclosing the relevant quotation 
but it now appears that the adviser made a recommendation without first obtaining a specific 
personal quotation in support. Mr R said, based on what Id said the advisers obligations 
were, thered been numerous breaches and failures to take into account Mr Rs specific and 
timely needs. And, after suffering financial detriment on 25 February 2020, Contractor 
Wealth accepted his uninformed pension investment decision without further advice. 
Complaint 3: The adviser failed to act with the due skill, care and diligence required by the 
regulators conduct rules
Mr R says this complaint is based on the evidence hes provided for complaints 1 and 2. 
Complaint 4: Contractor Wealth had failed to ensure his annuity was implemented correctly 
and thered been a delay in payment of the tax free cash
Mr R pointed to what the suitability report said (about monitoring the process to help ensure 
that payments are made as quickly as possible); the advisers email of 19 February 2020 
(which says all the administration will be done for Mr R); and the terms of business (which 
said the investment will be made in a timely manner in accordance with Contractor Wealths 
best execution policy). The onus was on Contractor Wealth to ensure the smooth 
crystallisation of his retirement funds, including the payment of his tax free cash. Mr R referred to what hed said in the appendix to his letter of 13 July 2020 to Contractor Wealth 
about this aspect of the matter.  
Complaint 5: Quilter hadnt handled his complaint fairly  
Quilter had said that, in assessing complaints, equal consideration is given to information 
provided by the adviser and the consumer. But wed said Quilter accepted responsibility for 
acts or omissions of Contractor Wealth and so Quilter cant be truly independent. Mr R 
referred to his previous letters dated 6 May 2020 and 13 July 2020 which he felt showed that 
Quilter had failed to uphold the FCAs rules on impartiality. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of what Mr R has said focuses on whether the adviser met his regulatory obligations 
and professional standards. Mr R has asked for clarification as to which statutory or 
regulatory authority he can, as an individual, refer to for an investigation into a named 
independent financial advisers conduct. Hes also asked for information to assist him in a 
potential referral to the advisers professional body. And hes mentioned legal proceedings, 
including a claim for professional negligence.
The relevant regulatory body is the FCA. Mr R can contact the FCA, about Contractor 
Wealth and/or Quilter and/or the adviser. But my understanding is that the FCA doesnt 
investigate individual complaints or reports of breaches of FSMA, the FCAs regulations or 
other provisions (such as PRIN), or concerns that the FCAs fair outcomes for consumers 
arent being met. The FCA may decide to look into any information it receives. But it wont 
provide details of any investigation or other action taken. Its a matter for Mr R if he wants to 
take the steps hes mentioned, including legal proceedings. It isnt for us to advise him how 
he might go about that or provide evidence in support. 
Ive decided Mr Rs complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case. As Im required to, Ive taken into account, amongst other 
things, relevant law and regulations and regulators rules, guidance and standards. I 
recognise the adviser also had common law (including fiduciary) duties  for example to act 
with reasonable skill and care - as well as statutory and contractual (express and implied) 
obligations. But I maintain the regulatory provisions reflect that and impose further (and 
higher) duties and standards. Hence Ive concentrated on those. But Ive referred, in places, 
to the specific contractual or other duties that Mr R has cited. Ive addressed each of Mr Rs 
complaints in turn. In the main, the provisional findings Ive set out above form part of my 
decision. But, as Ive explained below, my views about complaint 1 have been modified.   
Complaint 1: Contractor Wealth didnt make him aware that one of his existing pensions was 
invested at risk 
Mr R has referred to us being Scottish Widows regulator. But thats the FCA. And, as far as 
any evidence to support a complaint to Scottish Widows is concerned, Im only considering a 
complaint against Contractor Wealth. Any complaint about Scottish Widows would be a 
separate matter. But, in any event and based on what Mr R has more recently told us, it 
seems the situation wasnt that Scottish Widows failed to act on his instructions. As Ive 
mentioned, Mr R says that some of what Id said about this aspect of the matter was 
factually incorrect. Ive apologised and Im also sorry if I appeared to imply that any blame 
attached to Mr R for delay in not transferring his funds earlier. That wasnt my intention. As 
Ive set out below, I think Mr R did all he could to protect his fund values.   The investigator had said that it was clear from the telephone call with the new adviser that 
Scottish Widows had previously failed to carry out Mr Rs instruction to move the fund into 
cash. That was my impression too when I listened to the call and the discussion about 
whether Mr R had suffered any loss, given that hed benefitted from investment growth. The 
investigator referred to a fund factsheet showing historic fund performance, a copy of which 
we omitted to enclosed but weve now, for completeness, provided (although I dont think 
anything turns on it).  
In response to the investigators view, Mr R referred to what Quilter had said  that the 
adviser had identified, when carrying out due diligence on Mr Rs existing pensions, that one 
of them was still invested in a high risk fund and was therefore more susceptible to any 
investment volatility. Although the suitability report mentioned, as Mr R was shortly going to 
buy an annuity, switching into low risk cash based funds in the interim, there was no specific 
warning that applied to him as one of his funds remained invested. The fund had increased 
in value. But some of that gain was then lost when the markets fell on 25 February 2020. 
And Mr R lost the opportunity to lock in the gains hed made. 
Mr R had said that a phone call to Scottish Widows wouldve immediately resolved any 
problem. But, based on what hes since told us, I dont think it wouldve been as 
straightforward as making a simple fund swich. Mr R has said he found out in April 2018 
(when he switched his two other funds to cash) that Scottish Widows only offered a cash 
based fund for its stakeholder plan. 
Looking at the funds offered by Scottish Widows for stakeholder plans, the Cash Fund, 
identified as cautious, was described as:
The fund aims to provide long-term growth consistent with high levels of capital security by 
investing mainly in short-term securities. Specific risk:  The fund can invest in high-quality, 
mostly short-term debt instruments such as fixed deposits, certificates of deposit, 
commercial paper and floating rate notes. It carries a relatively modest risk to capital. 
I dont think the fund was high risk. But there was some risk to capital. In the absence of 
what Mr R terms a pure cash fund (or a deposit fund), hed have needed to transfer to 
another product on an interim basis which he says he couldnt have done without assistance 
from his adviser. 
But I dont think a transfer ought to have been recommended. Its one thing to say that 
consideration should be given to a fund switch, but another to recommend a transfer to a 
different product and where an annuity purchase appears imminent. 
In my view, a transfer (and which would probably involve further fees) wouldnt normally be 
undertaken. And, regardless of what forms the adviser held, I dont think he couldve 
undertaken a transfer without making a recommendation and getting Mr Rs instructions. I 
note that Mr R had two other pension arrangements with Scottish Widow. Even if either of 
those plans couldve accepted a transfer, I think any interim transfer (and whether to Scottish 
Widows or another provider) wouldve been discounted as unnecessary given it seemed an 
annuity purchase was imminent.  And, at the time, there was no perceived urgency. As Ive 
said below, what happened on 25 February 2020 couldnt have been foreseen. And time 
was too short to have achieved a transfer before the markets fell on 25 February 2020. 
I think to some extent at least Mr R accepts that. Hes said the costs of transferring would 
likely have been prohibitive. But hes concerned as to whether the adviser investigated his 
specific circumstances before saying, in the suitability report, that Mr R should consider 
switching into cash. I think its likely (and as Mr R has suggested) that comment was a standard warning which was routinely included. And its somewhat at odds with the fact that 
Mr R had already switched two of his funds into cash and his stakeholder plan into the 
nearest to a cash fund that was offered. 
But I dont think further investigation into exactly what the adviser knew is warranted. Mr R 
may see it as evidence of a failure on the advisers part to meet his obligations  by not 
looking into Mr Rs specific investments and providing specific advice. But the point is that 
Mr Rs options were limited. Hed already switched two of his pension plans to cash and his 
stakeholder plan to the cash based fund. Transferring to another product wasnt feasible. 
Regardless of what the adviser knew or said, I cant see that any changes to how Mr Rs 
three pensions were invested wouldve been made. Even if the risks of remaining invested 
had been pointed out (and by reference to the fact that the cash based fund that Mr Rs 
stakeholder plan was invested in could lose value), I dont see that Mr R wouldve or 
couldve taken any steps to mitigate his position. So no loss would flow from any failure to 
consider Mr Rs specific circumstances and provide tailored advice. Mr R may not agree with 
my approach. But before awarding compensation for financial loss we need to consider not 
just if there was a failing but if any financial loss resulted. 
Complaint 2: Contractor Wealth didnt give him best advice and failed to provide information 
hed requested
 
Much of what Mr R has said rests on the adviser having made two recommendations in the 
report dated 18 February 2020  an annuity and the blended solution. But I dont see that 
anything other than an annuity was recommended. The report said:
Recommendation
I recommend that you take out an annuity, on the basis described below with Scottish 
Widows. I have selected Scottish Widows on the basis that they currently offer the most 
competitive annuity rate on the open market on the following basis: Level, paid monthly in 
advance, no Guaranteed period, no dependants income.
The LV Retirement Account was mentioned on the first page of the report and in setting out 
the scope of the review and the types of products the adviser could offer. But the advisers 
clear recommendation was that Mr R take out an annuity on the basis set out with Scottish 
Widows. The adviser said alternatives had been considered but discounted for the reasons 
given. The LV Retirement Account included an element of both a fixed term annuity and 
drawdown, both of which the report said had been discounted as Mr R wasnt willing to take 
the risk that his pension fund could fall in value. 
Against that background, much of what Mr R has said about the adviser failing to meet his 
obligations falls away. In my view, the report was fair, clear and not misleading. It doesnt 
follow that the adviser was negligent, either by making a recommendation which wasnt 
suitable or that he failed in his duty to provide an provide an acceptable level of service by 
not fully explaining both recommendations and providing full details of both in time for Mr R 
to make an informed decision on 21 February 2021.In my view the advisers (single) 
recommendation was clear  that Mr R should buy the annuity. I consider that, for the 
reasons Ive previously explained, was a suitable recommendation for Mr R. 
The report concluded by saying that it would be discussed in detail. And that Mr R should 
contact the adviser if anything was unclear. Mr R did that  he requested (by telephone and 
email) details of the LV Retirement Account and said he wanted to see that information 
before the scheduled discussion. Quilter has confirmed that the adviser didnt obtain an 
illustration for that option. Weve seen and shared with Mr R an illustration from Old Mutual Wealth. Its dated 28 February 2020 so it was obtained after the discussion on 21 February 
2020 during which Mr R said he was undecided and requested more information. 
Mr R says it was information about the blended solution (the LV Retirement Account) that he 
needed, whereas Id consistently referred to him requesting information about FAD. But, 
regardless of exactly what further details Mr R wanted, the position is that hed asked for 
more information. I entirely accept that was his prerogative and that he wanted to be sure 
that buying an annuity was the right choice for him.
I dont see that the adviser refused to provide further information. Or that Mr R would have 
had to enter into a new contract with Contractor Wealth or pay another fee. The adviser said 
during the call on 21 February 2020 hed look into things further and hed be happy to redo 
the paperwork. And in the telephone call on 2 March 2020 the adviser said hed been 
working on a new report which hed been about to send to Mr R. It seems that was the case 
 the Old Mutual Wealth illustration evidences that the adviser had been undertaking further 
research. 
Mr R draws a distinction between what happened before 25 February 2020 and after when, 
as he puts it, he went into loss mitigation mode. In my provisional decision I noted that the 
adviser hadnt got back to Mr R promptly or by the time Mr R called in early March 2020. I 
said the adviser shouldve realised there was some urgency, given the expiry of the annuity 
quotation. But I dont think it was imperative (and without the benefit of hindsight) that Mr R 
was able to make a firm decision on 21 February 2020. As Ive said, I understand that Mr R 
wanted to be sure that buying an annuity  a one off, irreversible decision  was right for him 
and so he asked the adviser to look into other options. Unfortunately the markets then 
experienced volatility. That couldnt have been foreseen. And, even if Mr R had been able to 
make a firm decision on 21 February 2020, I dont think that would have changed things  I 
cant see how a fall in the value of his fund couldve been avoided.
But it appears that what happened with the markets did change Mr Rs perception and his 
priorities. It seems, from the conversation on 2 March 2020, that Mr R had been thinking 
about things again and had concluded that an annuity was his only option and his priority 
was to secure the annuity quotation hed received. I dont see that he was forced into that 
decision by any failures on the advisers part. So I havent followed up on Mr Rs enquiry as 
to whether Quilters investigation extended into why a client had been forced into making a 
decision when the adviser had failed to provide all necessary information in a timely manner. 
I dont agree that was the situation here. 
Nor have I ignored the evidence of the new adviser who noted there may have been some 
wires crossed in terms of understanding Mr Rs full enquiries. I dont agree that the (original) 
adviser failed to do what was agreed and was negligent in not providing details of the non 
annuity option recommendation. As Ive said, the adviser only recommended the annuity. 
But he did then fail to follow up promptly on the queries Mr R had raised. 
Complaint 3: The adviser failed to act with the due skill, care and diligence required by the 
regulators conduct rules
Complaint 3 follows on from complaints 1 and 2. I havent upheld those complaints and Im 
not upholding complaint 3 either. Overall I maintain that Contractor Wealths adviser made a 
suitable recommendation to Mr R that he should purchase an annuity. 
As Ive said, although Mr R was initially unsure  he thought he might get a higher income 
from a drawdown or other type of arrangement  his perception changed when the markets 
fell and he then decided hed be better off with an annuity. The further information the new adviser provided confirmed that  in particular that charges would erode the value of an 
income drawdown arrangement. And Mr Rs own calculations confirmed that. 
I dont agree that Mr R suffered any financial loss, either in terms of getting less tax free 
cash and/or a lower annuity, as a result of anything that Contractor Wealths adviser did 
wrong (or didnt do). I think the annuity recommendation was suitable for Mr R. So Im not 
making any award for financial loss. Ive considered distress and inconvenience but, as Ive 
explained below, I think the offer that Quilter made is fair and reasonable. 
Complaint 4: Contractor Wealth had failed to ensure his annuity was implemented correctly 
and thered been a delay in payment of the tax free cash
Its still my view that Contractor Wealth isnt responsible for these issues. I agree that 
Contractor Wealth said it would undertake the administration and monitor the process of the 
annuity purchase. But, from the difficulties that Mr R outlined in the appendix to his letter of 
13 July 2020, it seems there were problems at Scottish Widows end. Im not making any 
findings about that. Im just deciding, based on what Mr R has said, if theres anything which 
suggests that Contractor Wealth was at fault in the setting up of Mr Rs annuity and getting 
payments, including the tax free cash, made. 
Mr R had completed the annuity application form on 4 March 2020 and it was forwarded by 
Contractor Wealth to Scottish Widows promptly. Although Scottish Widows didnt confirm to 
Mr R until early May (and there may have been a delay in him receiving Scottish Widows 
April 2020 letter confirming the annuity details),  payments were made in April 2020 to cover 
March and April annuity instalments. The main issue seems to be the payment of the tax 
free cash, which wasnt made at the same time. The delay seems to have been due to 
confusion on Scottish Widows part. And human error  the person whod been dealing with 
the matter had moved to undertake a different role. It seems he overlooked, the cheque 
having been cancelled, making a new request for a BACS payment. 
I cant see that the delay is down to Contractor Wealth or that it couldve or shouldve taken 
steps to prevent or mitigate the delay. I wouldnt normally expect an advisory firm, having 
completed all the necessary paperwork to enable the annuity to be set up with a major 
provider, to check that it had been done. It was open to Mr R to have queried with Contractor 
Wealth what had happened but instead he chased it up direct with Scottish Widows which I 
think was the obvious and sensible thing to do and it seems got the problem rectified.   
Complaint 5: Quilter hasnt handled the complaint fairly 
I dont agree with Mr Rs comments about this aspect of the matter. I dont think theres any 
suggestion that Quilter is independent. Contractor Wealth isnt directly authorised. Its an 
appointed representative of Quilter and so Quilter, as principal, is legally responsible for 
what Contractor Wealth did (or didnt do). 
Theres no requirement for complaints to be independently investigated in terms of 
appointing a third party to undertake that function. But firms are required to have in place a 
process for handling and investigating complaints which complies with the DISP (Dispute 
Resolution) rules. Amongst other things complaints must be investigated competently, 
diligently and impartially. I think Quilter was trying to reassure clients whod had cause to 
complain and show impartiality by saying that equal weight is given to what the adviser and 
the consumer says. I dont think, although Quilter didnt uphold all of Mr Rs complaints, that 
must mean that the issues hed raised werent properly investigated. 
Mr R didnt agree with what Id said about Quilter having made an offer which was fair and 
reasonable. He said it hadnt been formally offered and in its correspondence with him Quilter had denied liability. I dont see theres any dispute about Quilter having made an offer 
which it remains prepared to pay. Mr R may not think its sufficient and I understand his 
strength of feeling. But, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision and this 
decision, in the main Im unable to uphold his complaint or say that hes suffered any 
financial loss because of shortcomings on Contractor Wealths part. And I think the offer 
Quilter has made is fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience arising 
from any service failings.  
In summary I realise that Mr R is unlikely to agree with my findings. But I hope Ive explained 
why Ive reached the views that I have. As Ive said above, its a matter for Mr R whether he 
accepts my decision or if he chooses to pursue his concerns by some other route.
My final decision
Quilter Financial Services Ltd has already made an offer to settle the complaint by refunding
half of the fee Mr R paid. I think that offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So
my decision is that Quilter Financial Services Ltd (if it hasnt done so already) should make
that payment to Mr R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman