DRN-2019688
The complaint
Mr A complains that: a car he took under a lease from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited (which Ill call MBFS) didnt perform as he expected, but MBFS is still seeking 
payment from him. He says too that MBFS wrongly sought payment from him for an 
electrical charging cable which it said hadnt been returned with the car.  
What happened
In November 2016 Mr A took an electric car from MBFS under a two-year lease agreement. 
He said fairly soon after that that the car wasnt performing as he thought it should. 
Specifically, he said the cars range was less than he had been led to believe it would be. 
Some adjustments were made, but Mr A remained unhappy. 
The lease agreement was due to come to an end in January 2019, but at that point Mr A 
hadnt found a replacement car. MBFS and Mr A therefore reached an agreement that he 
could keep the car for a daily hire rate. The daily charges amounted to just over £650 by the 
time he returned the car. 
MBFS however sent Mr A an invoice for a further £457 because, it said, a charging cable 
hadnt been returned with the car as it should have been. 
Mr A referred his concerns to this service. MBFS said that it had addressed Mr As complaint 
about the car itself in November 2018, when it had issued a final response saying that he 
should refer the matter to this service within six months of that date. He hadnt done so, and 
so that part of his complaint was not one this service had power to consider. It agreed 
however to reduce the payment it was seeking by £457  the amount it had been seeking for 
the charger cable. 
One of our investigators looked into the case. She concluded that Mr As complaint about the 
car itself wasnt one this service could look at  for the reasons MBFS had explained. She 
thought however that MBFS should agree to a further reduction of £200 in the amount it was 
seeking from Mr A, to reflect the distress hed suffered and the inconvenience to which hed 
been put. 
MBFS accepted the investigators recommendations, but Mr A didnt. He thought MBFS 
should agree not to seek anything further from him. He asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill discuss briefly the complaint about the car and its performance. MBFS wrote to Mr A with 
its response to that part of his complaint in November 2018. That letter said that Mr A had 
six months in which to refer his complaint to this service. He didnt however do that until 
September 2019, some ten months later. 
We cant generally consider a complaint which is referred to us more than six months after 
the date of a financial businesss final response. The investigator took the view that MBFSs 
letter of 15 November 2018 was a final response and so the complaint was referred to us 
outside the relevant time limit. I dont intend therefore to say anything more about that in this 
decision. 
MBFS did however accept Mr As complaint about the charger cable  which didnt form part 
of the original complaint. The investigator thought that, as well as deducting that charge from 
Mr As invoice, it should credit him with a further £200. Mr A didnt think that went far 
enough, but Im afraid I dont agree on that point. I can see that MBFS should have 
investigated that issue more thoroughly at the outset; had it done so, it might have been 
resolved sooner. I dont believe however a further reduction of more than £650 is warranted 
in respect of that. I think a figure of £200  as the investigator suggested  is an appropriate 
sum.       
Putting things right
As Ive indicated, MBFS has agreed to the investigators proposal. I shall however make an 
award in that sum, so that Mr A can enforce it, should he need to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr As complaint in full, Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited should (at its option) either pay Mr A £200 or reduce the amount it is 
seeking from him under the hire agreement by the same amount. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman