DRN-2765748
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) started to charge them for 
their packaged bank account, when theyd previously been told that they would not be 
charged if they kept their account balance above £4,000.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M opened a fee-paying Platinum account in 2005. A feature of the account 
meant that, providing Mr and Mrs M kept the balance of the account above a certain amount, 
they would not be charged the monthly Platinum account fee. This feature of the account is 
known as a fee waiver.
I understand that Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs M in 2019 to say that it will be removing the 
fee-waiver from the Platinum account fee in February 2020. But due to Covid, Lloyds says it 
delayed charging Platinum account holders until September 2020.
However, Mr and Mrs M also received a letter from Lloyds in December 2019, which said 
that they wont have to pay the monthly fee going forwards, providing they kept their balance 
above a certain amount. 
Mr and Mrs M then complained to Lloyds as they were charged the monthly account fee on 1 
September 2020.
In its response, Lloyds acknowledged that it had given Mr and Mrs M wrong information and 
said that all Platinum accounts opened since January 2005 were no longer eligible for the 
fee-waiver. So in light of the incorrect information that Mr and Mrs M had been given, Lloyds 
paid them £30 compensation and also £42, which was the equivalent of 2 months worth of 
account fees. This was to give Mr and Mrs M time to decide whether they wanted to keep 
the Platinum now they were having to pay for it.
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators considered 
what Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds had said and provided and she felt that Lloyds need not do 
anything more to put matters right. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, in terms of Lloyds decision to remove the fee-waiver, this is something that Lloyds is 
entitled to do. It is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it provides 
and also which ones to discontinue too. Therefore, whilst I understand why Mr and Mrs M 
are dissatisfied by this, especially as they have been customers of Lloyds for some time, I 
am unable to say that Lloydss decision to remove this feature of the Platinum is 
unreasonable. 
However, when making such changes to accounts, Lloyds is obliged to give notice to its 
customers. From what Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds have provided, I cant say that Lloyds did 
initially give Mr and Mrs M reasonable notice of the withdrawal of the fee-waiver. But having 
said that, I can see that in its final response letter, Lloyds did pay Mr and Mrs M £30 due to 
the incorrect information it had previously given them. And it paid Mr and Mrs M two months 
worth of account fees. This was to give them time to decide whether to keep the Platinum 
account or not, now that theyd have to pay the monthly fee, regardless of the account 
balance.
Therefore, whilst I dont think Lloyds did initially give Mr and Mrs M sufficient notice of the 
account changes, I think what Lloyds did in its final response letter was enough to put 
matters right.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M chose to keep the account to see what our service had to 
say on the matter. However, Mr and Mrs M were not obliged to keep the account and it was 
their choice to do so. So I dont think it would be appropriate to ask Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs 
M any further account fees they mayve been charged since the final response letter. 
Therefore, taking everything into account, I think that Lloyds did get things wrong and led Mr 
and Mrs M to believe that theyd still retain their fee-waiver, when that was not actually the 
case, But I also think what Lloyds did to put matters right was reasonable. I therefore dont 
require Lloyds to do anything further in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman