DRN-4056835
The complaint
Mr L complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) further damaged his 
car so that it was declared a total loss after he made a glass claim. Hes unhappy that LV 
recorded a claim on his record and with the settlement it offered for the loss of his car.
 
What happened
Mr Ls car was vandalised, and the windscreen was damaged. He made a glass claim to LV 
and it recovered the car for repair. But LV said the car had further damage that meant it was 
a total loss. It recorded a claim and offered Mr L £7,745 in settlement for the loss of his car. 
But Mr L said the further damage to his car had occurred after it was recovered by LV. He 
was unhappy with this, the settlement offered and that a claim was on his record.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought LV hadnt 
done enough to show that the further damage had been caused by the initial vandalism. She 
thought it should remove the claim from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database. She thought LVs settlement offer for the loss of the car was fair and reasonable. 
But she thought LV should pay Mr L £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
LV replied that its engineer thought most of the further damage was caused by the 
vandalism of the windscreen, and so a vandalism claim should have been made. It thought 
this had been correctly recorded on CUE. 
It thought two areas of damage were due to wear and tear, but it couldnt substantiate this. 
So it paid Mr L £984 cash is lieu for these and paid to valet his car. Mr L remained unhappy, 
so it paid him a total loss settlement, less the glass excess, but Mr L hadnt released the 
cars salvage. It said it had already paid Mr L an amount in excess of the market valuation, 
so it didnt think further compensation was warranted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr L felt frustrated that his car was declared beyond economical repair 
after he had made a claim for a replacement windscreen. I can see that he has raised further 
concerns about LV, but I cant consider those here as it hasnt had a chance to respond to 
him. 
LV maintains that most of the bodywork damage to the car was due to broken glass and the 
vandalism. And so it said a vandalism claim rather than a glass claim should be recorded. It 
also said its agent wasnt responsible for most of the damage, just for two areas that it 
couldnt link to the incident. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about damage 
and repairs.
LV relied on its in-house engineers desk-top assessment of the further damage reported by 
Mr L and a field engineers report to decide that seven of the nine areas of damage were 
caused by the vandalism. 
This field engineer inspected the car two months after the incident. Photographs taken then 
show the damage to be very apparent. 
LV provided photographs taken by the recovery agent after the incident and before the car 
was recovered. These dont show any of the further damage Mr L later reported. And the 
check-in sheet completed by the recovery agent doesnt list any damage to the car other 
than to the windscreen. 
LV hasnt explained why there is such a discrepancy between the two sets of images or why 
the check-in report didnt note the damage if it was already existing. And so Im not satisfied 
that it has justified its decision that most of the damage was related to the vandalism rather 
than to the recovery and storage of the car. And so I think its responsible for this and for the 
consequent loss of Mr Ls car. 
When a business makes a mistake, as I think LV has done here, we expect it to restore the 
consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error 
had on the consumer. 
LV said it paid Mr L the market value for the loss of his car. The Investigator has explained 
this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to 
whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that LV checked in the motor trade guides we use for cars of the same make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ls car at the date of its loss. The settlement it 
offered him was within the range of the valuations it found. So I think the valuation was fair 
and reasonable and I dont require LV to increase this.
LV said Mr L hadnt yet released the cars salvage. After a total loss claim has been paid, 
then the cars salvage belongs to the insurer unless the consumer has paid to retain it. LV 
paid Mr L a settlement for the cars total loss which he accepted. And so Im satisfied Mr L 
should release the car to LV. 
LV said it had recorded a claim against Mr L as the further damage to the cars bodywork 
was due to vandalism. But I think LV unfairly treated Mr Ls glass claim as a vandalism 
claim. And so Im satisfied that it should remove the record from CUE. 
LV said it had already paid Mr L more than the cars valuation as it paid him £984 cash in 
lieu of repairs for two areas of damage it couldnt link to the vandalism. And it provided him 
with a courtesy car outside his policys provision. 
But Mr L was unable to drive his car due to broken glass that hadnt been removed by LV. 
And it was LVs engineers decision that the two areas of damage were most likely caused 
by its agent. So I dont think its fair or reasonable to penalise Mr L for this. 
If Mr Ls glass claim had been correctly handled, then he wouldnt have lost his car, which 
had sentimental value for him, and he wouldnt have had to raise his dispute with LV. This 
has caused Mr L considerable trouble and upset over a lengthy period. Mr L made it clear to 
LV that this was affecting his health. And so I think it should reasonably pay him £500 further 
compensation for this, in keeping with our published guidance.Putting things right
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Remove records of the vandalism claim from CUE.
2. Pay Mr L £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman