DRN-3124543
The complaint
Ms Os complained that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited, trading as 
The Insurance Emporium (ELI) unfairly applied a policy exclusion to a claim she made for 
her cats veterinary treatment.
What happened
In 2018, Ms O bought a pet insurance policy from ELI to cover her cat.  She declared the cat 
had previously suffered urinary tract infections.  So ELI excluded cover for the urinary 
system.  Ms O has renewed the policy each year and the exclusion has been applied each 
time.
In early 2021, Ms O notified ELI that her cat was suffering from both a bladder issue and a 
dental problem.  ELI told her only dental issues resulting from trauma were covered under 
the policy.  And they advised Ms O of the policy exclusion relating to the urinary system.
Ms O was unhappy with the information ELI provided as she didnt believe shed been made 
aware of the exclusion.  And she said shed submit a claim for the treatment.
A claim for £1,012.84 was submitted in March 2021.  ELI checked the diagnosis with Ms Os 
vets, as the forms mentioned both anorexia and e-coli infection.  The vet responded and 
confirmed a diagnosis of chronic kidney disease and a urinary tract infection.  And they 
confirmed urinary tract infections are commonly caused by e-coli.
Following their investigation, ELI declined Ms Os claim as they said the cats condition fell 
within the urinary system exclusion.
Ms O didnt accept ELIs decision and complained.  She accepted that her cat had suffered 
from previous urinary tract infections.  But she said her cats chronic kidney disease was a 
separate condition  so it shouldnt be excluded.
ELI investigated the complaint and maintained their decision to decline cover.  They said the 
exclusion had been in place since Ms O had first bought the policy, because shed declared 
her cats previous urinary tract infections.  And that the exclusion was for the whole urinary 
system.
Ms O didnt accept ELIs position and brought her complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered it and concluded ELI had applied the exclusion fairly.  He was satisfied the 
exclusion of the urinary system was clear from the policy documentation sent to Ms O.  And 
he was satisfied the urinary system includes the kidneys  so it was fair that the exclusion 
was applied to treatment for chronic kidney disease.
Ms O didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Os complaint.  Ill explain why.
Insurers have a duty to deal with claims fairly and in line with the policy terms.  And wed 
expect insurers to draw attention to any terms or exclusions that would have a significant 
impact on any claim made.
Ive seen the policy documentation sent to Ms O when she first bought the policy and each 
time she renewed.  The policy was sold on a non-advised basis, which means Ms O was 
responsible for ensuring it met her needs.  The covering letters direct Ms O to the policy 
schedule, insurance protection information document (IPID).
The policy schedule sent each year says:
With effect from inception of the policy cover excludes the urinary system.
Im satisfied from this that Ms O was told about the exclusion on several occasions.
In response to the investigators view, Ms O said the cats chronic kidney disease shouldnt 
be excluded because it wasnt a pre-existing condition.
I accept the cat hadnt been diagnosed with this before.  And the IPID says that pre-existing 
conditions are excluded.  But that doesnt mean that only those conditions are excluded.  ELI 
asked Ms O about her cats existing conditions.  And, once they had that information, they 
decided the terms on which theyd offer her a policy.
The decision ELI made was to exclude cover for the whole urinary system.  I cant tell an 
insurer what cover they should or shouldnt provide.  So I cant say that decision was wrong.  
As Ive said above, information about the exclusion was provided to Ms O.  It was up to her 
whether to accept the insurance on the terms offered.  She did.
Its generally known that the kidneys are part of the urinary system.  So I think its 
reasonable for ELI to decide conditions relating to the kidneys fall within the policy exclusion 
 and to decline Ms Os claim on that basis.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Os complaint about The Equine and 
Livestock Insurance Company Limited, trading as The Insurance Emporium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman