DRN-3880377
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that State Bank of India (UK) Limited (SBI) failed to protect her 
accounts from being accessed by her son and that it also failed to deal with her complaint 
appropriately, including declining to speak to her representative.
Mrs S has been represented by a family member in making this complaint. However, for 
ease, this decision will just be referring to Mrs S.
What happened
Following the death of her husband, Mrs Ss son took over helping her with her financial 
affairs. However, Mrs S found out in early June 2020 that her son was abusing her trust and 
that he had accessed her account and carried out some transactions that had not been 
sanctioned by her.
SBI didnt think it had done anything wrong with regard to how it had dealt with matters after 
being alerted to the situation. However, it accepted that some of its complaint handling could 
have been better and so offered Mrs S £100 compensation.
Our investigator summarised his conclusions into five bullet points:
That there was no evidence that Mrs S asked SBI to confirm branch conversations in 
writing, so SBI had not made an error in not doing so.
That a disputed transaction that took place on 24 June 2020 happened before Mrs S 
asked for her account to be blocked.
That SBI liaised with Mrs Cs representative from 16 June 2021 to 22 October 2021. 
SBI then advised the representative that it wouldnt liaise with him and would only 
liaise with Mrs S via branch staff. But that SBI were aware of Mrs Ss circumstances 
and that she was a vulnerable consumer at that point.
That Mrs S had asked SBI to liaise with her representative. And that there was no 
evidence that SBI explained to Mrs S why it wouldnt liaise with her representative 
after 22 October 2021. 
That Mrs S felt SBI werent listening to her, which caused anxiety. Given that Mrs S 
had asked someone to represent her and SBI to liaise with her representative, it 
caused Mrs S anxiety when SBI then rang her. This would have been avoidable had 
SBI followed Mrs Ss instructions or explained its actions in writing.
Our investigator therefore upheld the complaint in relation to the last three points. He thought 
that £200 would be a more appropriate level of compensation for the errors that occurred, to 
which SBI agreed.
Mrs S disagrees with the first two points and the complaint has therefore been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Ombudsman was established to be an informal service. This doesnt mean we apply 
any less rigour or care in reaching decisions. However, it does mean that we might not 
address each and every point in our decisions in the way that Mrs S might wish. Therefore, 
although Mrs S has set out a number of detailed questions and would like the decision to be 
framed in terms of whether SBI acted in line with the FCAs guiding principles, I intend to just 
concentrate on the crux of the matter at hand.
I would however like to reassure Mrs S that, even though I might not mention it directly, 
when considering what is fair and reasonable, I am taking into account relevant law, 
regulations and guidance.
SBI agreed that some of the service Mrs S received was below the level she had the right to 
expect. And Mrs S has accepted the three final points of our investigators assessment. So I 
do not need to revisit those issues in this decision. My focus is on the first two points of the 
investigators assessment that Mrs S disagrees with.
SBI not confirming branch conversation in writing
Mrs S visited the branch a number of times in 2020, the last occasion being 14 September 
2020. In a letter Mrs Ss then sent to SBI dated 17 September 2020, she expresses that the 
branch staff have been very helpful and that she is grateful. She does not express any 
dissatisfaction about not receiving written details of the discussions that took place.
Mrs Ss letter does ask for clarification on a few points. However, the assistant branch 
manager subsequently rang Mrs S on 7 October 2020 to discuss the contents of the letter 
and to offer Mrs S a further branch meeting. I understand that Mrs S, quite naturally, didnt 
want to travel to the branch during the pandemic. She has said that she then left a message 
for the assistant branch manager to call her back and didnt receive a response.
I appreciate that Mrs S was expecting a fuller response to the questions she asked in her 
letter of 17 September 2020. However, in terms of a requirement for SBI to follow up branch 
discussions in writing, that is not something that would happen as a matter of routine. There 
is no evidence that Mrs S made that request during the meetings or that SBI offered her that 
service. I do understand that Mrs S wasnt used to dealing with financial matters herself and 
so later sought reassurance about what had been discussed. But at the time, she deemed 
herself to be satisfied with how the meetings had been conducted and SBI would therefore 
have also thought that the face-to-face meetings had met Mrs Ss communication needs. Ive 
thought very carefully about what Mrs S has said but, on balance, Im not persuaded that 
SBI have done anything wrong in not following up the meetings in writing.
That SBI should have blocked Mrs Ss account before the disputed transaction on 24 June 
2020
According to Mrs Ss original submissions, she visited the branch on three occasions in 2020 
to discuss her sons misuse of her accounts. She says the first visit was on 15 June 2020. 
As such, the account should have been blocked on that date. She says her son used the 
debit card to withdraw £50 on 24 June 2020, which he wouldnt have been able to do if the 
account had been blocked at the first time of asking. She says her next two visits were on 10 
July 2020 and 14 September 2020 (I do however note that a timeline recently submitted by 
Mrs S lists five visits in total, including 3 July 2020 and 4 August 2020). In contrast, SBI has no record of a visit on 15 June 2020. Instead, it has a record of a visit on 
3 July 2020, and its at this point that the account was blocked. SBIs records concur with 
Mrs Ss in relation to the visits in July and September 2020.
There isnt any direct evidence to show that Mrs S visited on 15 June 2020. Banks routinely 
record information, even if only in brief notes, on their systems. Given the serious nature of 
what Mrs S would have told SBI about her sons activities, I find it unlikely that SBI would 
simply forget to record that information.
Mrs S says that SBIs complaint responses didnt query or challenge her assertion that she 
visited the branch in June 2020. But I dont think it follows that SBI was therefore agreeing 
with her. She has highlighted a couple of documents from SBI in which it indicates that Mrs 
S first notified it in June 2020. However, looking at these documents, I consider that the 
mentions of June 2020 are most likely typos  and in response to Mrs S saying she visited in 
June 2020 - as the remaining submissions from SBI are consistent in stating Mrs Ss first 
recorded visit was on 3 July 2020.
I understand that Mrs S began contacting various banks from the week beginning 8 June 
2020. However, based on the available evidence, I find it more likely than not that her first 
visit to SBI was on 3 July 2020, at which time a block was put on the account. Therefore, SBI 
are not responsible for allowing Mrs Ss son to withdraw money on 24 June 2020, as that 
was before it was alerted to the situation. I find that SBI acted swiftly to put a block on the 
account when Mrs S first spoke to it. 
In summary, I agree with our adjudicator that SBI didnt always deal with Mrs Ss concerns 
as well as it should have and that £200 is appropriate and proportionate compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and require State Bank of Indian 
(UK) Limited to pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman