DRN-3994692
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car insurance 
claim.
All references to Skyfire also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Our services role
Mrs M explained the claim has been recorded as a non-fault, so I can understand why she 
feels strongly about whats happened.  For this she has my natural sympathy.
In response to our investigator, Mrs M said she feels our service should support the 
customer  and feels we havent helped her.
Before I deliver my findings, I want to assure Mrs M Ive thought about everything shes said 
very carefully. 
However, I do wish to set out my role here, and the role of our service. My role is to provide 
an impartial decision on Mrs Ms complaint against Skyfire.  This means our service doesnt 
represent either party  be it consumers or financial businesses.
In delivering my findings, my role as an ombudsman is to decide how a complaint should be 
resolved, quickly and informally based on the facts of the case. So, in my decision Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint. In doing so I dont 
intend any discourtesy to Mrs M, or disregard to what shes said. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service and my role in it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In the event of a total loss, the policy sets out the insurer will not pay more than the 
market value of the vehicle at the time of loss or damage. 
The policy defines market value as the cost of replacing the vehicle with one of a 
similar make, model, age, mileage, and condition based on market prices at the time 
of the accident or loss.
My role isnt to value a vehicle, but to see if the insurer has made a fair offer in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use the relevant trade 
guides as we think its the fairest way to value second-hand vehicles. We find these 
persuasive because their valuations are based on continued nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out 
what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. If a guide price is 
significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable to ignore it
Skyfire have provided evidence it has consulted the relevant trade guides and these 
returned prices between around £11,830 and £15,309.  Skyfire offered Mrs M 
£13,603  which is in between the two valuations and in line with what our service 
would expect to see in the circumstances.
Mrs M provided two examples of similar vehicles for sale. Ive considered these, but 
retailers and private sellers tend to advertise for more than the vehicles eventual sale 
price. I also note the higher valued vehicle (at around £15,750) had around 22,000 
miles less on the clock than what was reported on Mrs Ms vehicle when Skyfire 
inspected it.
I understand Mrs M feels Skyfires offer isnt fair, and Ive considered what shes said 
about the rise in the price of second-hand cars. But as Ive set out above, Im 
satisfied the settlement Skyfire offered is in line with what our service would expect. 
And Im more persuaded the prices in the trade guides are an accurate reflection of 
the vehicles market value and likely selling price. So, Im satisfied Skyfire have acted 
fairly.
Ive listened to an excerpt of a call between Skyfire and Mrs M. In the call, the agent 
indicates what he believed the vehicle could be worth. But I think this was a rough 
estimate not a confirmation of the amount Mrs M would be offered. And when this 
was discussed, the vehicle hadnt been inspected by an engineer, or relevant trade 
guides consulted.
I can understand Mrs Ms disappointment when she was offered less than was 
mentioned, but Im not persuaded this was confirmation of an offer from Skyfire or 
that its misinformed her.
Mrs M changed to a different vehicle following settlement. And has been charged 
around £537 more. Its not unusual for a difference in vehicle to impact the premiums 
charged by an insurer. And there are a range of factors that will be considered when 
an insurer determines the policy premium.
Were not the industry regulator. That means its not our role to tell an insurer how 
much it can charge for its policies. Neither is it our role to tell an insurer what factors 
it should consider when assessing risk to calculate a premium. Different insurers will 
have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats 
essentially a matter of commercial judgement. However, we would expect to Skyfire 
to treat Mrs M fairly and consistently in line with other consumers in similar 
circumstances. 
Ive looked at underwriting information provided by Skyfire and how its calculated 
Mrs Ms premium. However, having done so, Ive not seen any evidence to show it 
treated Mrs M unfairly in calculating it. Or that shes been treated differently to any 
other customer in the same circumstances. So, considering this, and that I think 
Skyfires settlement offer is fair, as set out above, I dont think its acted unfairly here.
The new premium amount charged also included a £25 administration charge. This is 
a common feature in most Insurance policies, and I can see it is set out in the policy 
booklet. Considering the information available to me, I dont think Skyfire have acted 
unfairly in charging this fee.Putting things right
Skyfires latest settlement offer was a revised figure, with an increase of around £43. It has 
also said it will pay Mrs M 8% simple interest on the increased amount. If it hasnt already 
made payment, it should do so. The interest should be calculated from the date it made the 
original settlement to Mrs M, to the date it makes the payment.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
To put things right I direct Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman