DRN-4089344
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Tandem Home Loans Ltd (Tandem) lent to them irresponsibly 
and didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks at the time they took out their second 
charge mortgage (secured loan).
Mr and Mrs J took the loan out with 1st Stop Home Loans Limited, which subsequently 
became Oplo HL Ltd, and is now Tandem, so I will refer to Tandem throughout my decision 
for ease. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a second charge mortgage for £25,000 with Tandem through a broker 
on 29 September 2018 in order to consolidate debt. 
Mr and Mrs J have said that they were struggling financially in 2018 and they dont think 
Tandem completed their income and expenditure forms correctly. They say that they had 
four children in full-time education (three under 16) and the surplus amount cited by Tandem 
did not exist. Mr and Mrs J have also said that Tandem calculated its figures based on Mr J 
owning 65% of the property when he actually only owns 40%.
Mr and Mrs J say that they kept up the payments for two years but were struggling financially 
in the background. They say that as a result of taking the loan they got into more debt on top 
of this loan as they struggled to make the payments and Mrs J ended up with an Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in 2020. Mr and Mrs J say that they are still struggling 
financially and Tandem has added lots of interest and charges and has threatened them with 
repossession once the arrears reach a certain amount. 
Tandem says that it took Mr and Mrs J through a robust underwriting process which 
demonstrates that it lent to them responsibly. It says that it conducted a full income and 
expenditure (I&E) assessment with Mr and Mrs J and verified their income at the time of the 
loan as evidenced by their payslips. It conducted a full affordability assessment to account 
for all debt remaining, essential expenditure and living costs along with other outgoings it 
was made aware of. Tandem says that it uses government guidelines to estimate basic 
household essentials and living costs unless advised that they were higher or it found 
evidence of them being higher. Tandem says that it obtained a bank statement covering 30 
days and no further outgoings were determined.
Tandem says that as part of its process to ensure it was lending responsibly, it also 
conducted a creditworthiness assessment to highlight how Mr and Mrs J had managed theirs 
existing and previous debts as outlined within their credit file. It said in its final response to 
Mr and Mrs J that there were no recorded County Court Judgments (CCJs), defaults, 
missed payments or arrears on Mrs Js credit report and that Mr Js credit report was also 
reviewed and was satisfactory. It also said that all debt repayments evidenced on the credit 
search, in the bank statements or additional debts declared were included in the affordability 
assessment. 
Investigators View 
Our investigator looked at the case and concluded that Tandem hadnt acted fairly. Mr and 
Mrs J provided a bank statement to Tandem which showed their outgoings and the 
investigator wasnt persuaded that Tandem had sought sufficient clarification on some of 
their expenditure. The investigator concluded that, had it done so, Tandem wouldnt have 
been able to satisfy the requirements set out in the regulators rules in that it wouldnt have 
been able to show that the loan was affordable for Mr and Mrs J at the time they took it out.
The investigator found that, although most of the information in the I&E was correct, there 
were some points where the figures and other information didnt match, which was 
concerning bearing in mind the affordability assessment was a crucial part of Tandems 
lending decision. He also had concerns about the figures used for the stress test which didnt 
appear to take into account an increase in the interest rate of 3%, in line with the rules and 
guidance at the time. Further, the property valuation figure used appeared to be inaccurate 
bearing in mind Mr and Mrs J had shared ownership of the property.
In relation to Mr and Mrs Js bank statement provided to Tandem, the investigator found that 
there were several transactions shown as being paid to a religious organisation (which I will 
refer to as R) totalling £850 over the month. Tandem had said that this linked in with file 
notes about Mr and Mrs J moving their child into a religious school, that Mr and Mrs J didnt 
declare any regular expenditure to this organisation on the I&E, and that the transactions 
didnt cause the account to go overdrawn. Therefore, it said that it had no reasonable cause 
to question the transactions or obtain any additional information. 
The investigator disagreed with this. He noted that R was a different organisation than that to 
which payments had been previously made for their childrens education. He found that, had 
the transactions related to Mr and Mrs J moving their child to a different school, this would 
likely be a regular outgoing so this alone would have been reason to ask further questions. 
However, Tandem did not do so. The fact that Mr and Mrs J didnt declare this didnt negate 
the fact that it was the lenders responsibility to carry out an affordability assessment to 
ensure it was lending responsibly. It was the investigators view that Tandem should have 
asked more questions and for supporting information when seeing that hundreds of pounds 
was being paid to R.
As part of this, the investigator was of the view that Tandem should have asked for further 
bank statements to check the affordability and sustainability of the loan repayments. The 
investigator obtained further statements which also showed payments to R and an average 
monthly outgoing of £675 on top of the figures Tandem used in its I&E assessment. Even 
without using the correct stress test, the investigator found that this would have made the 
loan unaffordable for Mr and Mrs J as it left them with a deficit of around £250 a month. He 
found that it wasnt enough for Tandem to say that R wasnt a creditor as this was a 
significant regular outgoing on Mr and Mrs Js statements which meant their income wasnt 
enough to afford this loan. 
Overall, the investigator found that Tandem didnt carry out sufficient checks when 
considering the information which was available to it. It should have questioned the 
payments, conducted the correct stress test and ensured all the figures it used to assess 
affordability were correct. He concluded that Tandems decision to lend was irresponsible 
because the borrowing was unaffordable and unsustainable. 
In order to put things right, the investigator recommended that Tandem should remove all 
interest and charges applied to the loan and that any payments made by Mr and Mrs J 
should be treated as payments towards the capital amount. He also recommended that 
Tandem remove any negative information about the loan from Mr and Mrs Js credit file. 
Tandems Response
Tandem disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. It says that the 
transactions shown on the bank account were a discretionary spend as opposed to 
essential living costs and are not captured under any MCOB requirements. It also says the 
amounts were variable, they werent shown as credit commitments on the credit files and werent declared as an expense on the I&E form by Mr and Mrs J. Tandem says that its 
affordability assessment captured all expenditure required under MCOB. 
Tandem maintains that its checks showed the loan to be affordable and sustainable over the 
repayment period. It says that the subsequent financial difficulty was not as a result of its 
decision to lend but due to unforeseen circumstances which it could not have envisaged at 
the time of its assessment. 
Tandem says that the reason for Mr and Mrs Js financial difficulties appears to be due to the 
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and this was not something which it could have foreseen 
when the loan was approved. It says that all payments were made on time and in full for 18 
months until April 2020. In March 2020, Mr J had contacted Tandem to say that he was off 
sick and Mrs J was unemployed due to the pandemic so they would be unable to make their 
contractual payments. A payment holiday was applied to the account at that stage. Tandem 
has detailed various discussions in the following months about Mr and Mr Js financial 
difficulties and confirmed that a period of forbearance was applied to the account in 
December 2020. It has confirmed that it received documentation relating to Mrs Js IVA 
dated 24 August 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
The loan was taken out by Mr and Mrs J in September 2018 for £25,000 (plus an 
acceptance fee of £995 and a broker fee of £2,750) over a term of 15 years. The monthly 
repayment was £373.35, with the total amount repayable being £67,202.20. The loan was on 
a fixed rate of 13.5% for 5 years followed by a variable rate and with an APRC of 17.6%.
Tandem says that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation. £23,852.05 of the loan 
was going to consolidate other loans with the remaining £1,147.95 going directly to Mr and 
Mrs J. Once the consolidated debts had been replaced by the loan repayment of £373.35, it 
says that the I&E assessment showed a saving of £492.05 a month on existing debt 
repayments and monthly free cash of £447.30 after the loan repayment to Tandem. Tandem 
says that this showed the loan repayment was affordable. 
Tandem says that it also stress-tests repayments on all variable rate mortgages to ensure 
that the loan remains affordable if interest rates rise. It says that this showed monthly free 
cash of £424.30.
Mr and Mrs Js secured loan is a regulated mortgage contract which means that the 
regulators rules on mortgage lending (known as MCOB) apply. At the time Mr and Mrs J 
took out the loan, these rules set out  in summary  that its the responsibility of the lender 
to carry out a detailed affordability assessment. MCOB sets out some of the key 
requirements, including (but not limited to):
A lender must assess whether a consumer will be able to pay the mortgage 
repayments, not just at the start but over the term
A lender must not enter into the mortgage agreement unless it can demonstrate 
that the mortgage is affordable for the consumer
A lender must take full account of the customers income, and must obtain 
adequate evidence of the income declared by the consumer 
A lender must take full account of the customers committed expenditure (credit and contractual commitments) and take reasonable steps to obtain details of the 
customers actual outstanding commitments 
A lender must take full account of the customers basic essential expenditure and 
quality of living costs of the customers household
The rules set out requirements and guidance in relation to the assessment of a consumers 
expenditure. In particular, MCOB 11.6.12 sets out that for the purposes of its assessment of 
whether the customer will be able to pay the sums due a lender may generally rely on any 
evidence of income or information on expenditure provided by the customer unless, taking a 
common sense view, it has reason to doubt the evidence or information. In other words, its 
acceptable for a lender to rely on information about expenditure given by an applicant 
without seeking evidence to corroborate it  unless there are grounds to doubt what is said.
Tandem did obtain a copy Mr and Mrs Js credit reports and one bank statement for their 
joint account covering the period of 14 July to 13 August 2018. So I accept that it did take 
reasonable steps to obtain details of their actual credit commitments as it was required to do 
under MCOB 11.6.13. However, I think once Tandem obtained these documents that should 
have led it to question what Mr and Mrs J had said about their expenditure on credit 
commitments and living and other expenses  for a number of reasons which I will expand 
upon below. 
Tandem says that it obtained a bank statement covering 30 days and no further outgoings 
were determined. Having looked at this bank statement, I disagree that no further outgoings 
were apparent over and above those declared on the I&E.
I can see from the bank statement provided to Tandem that there were payments totalling 
£850 to R, made up of £25 and £100 on 20 July, £30 on 23 July, £65 and £450 on 27 July, 
£30 on 3 August, and £50 and £100 on 7 August. It appears that Tandem didnt ask any 
questions about what these payments were for.
Tandem has said that R was a religious organisation and this linked with its file notes about 
Mr and Mrs J moving their child to a religious school. It also says that Mr and Mrs J didnt 
declare any regular expenditure to this organisation on the I&E, that the transactions didnt 
cause the account to go overdrawn and that they werent shown as credit commitments on 
the credit files. Therefore it said it had no reasonable cause to question the transactions or 
obtain any additional information.  
I can see that Tandem has noted on its file in relation to Mr and Mrs Js creditworthiness that 
they had recent borrowing as they had moved their child from school and had to pay for 
private school for which they had to take out loans. They had now moved their child to 
another school. It was noted that they had made two payments of £640 each to an 
organisation on 27 and 30 July 2018 and that these were the final payments for school fee 
arrears. 
It is clear from the statements that R was a different entity to the organisation Mr and Mrs J 
had paid the school fees to. Had Tandem thought that the payments to R were for a new 
school then I think it would have been reasonable for it to have made further enquiries about 
this, as they would likely have been a regular outgoing. The fact that the payments werent 
part of a credit agreement noted on Mr and Mrs Js credit files doesnt mean that these 
werent part of Mr and Mrs Js regular expenditure, nor does the fact that the payments didnt 
lead them to go overdrawn at the time they were paid. 
At the very least, I would have expected Tandem to have questioned this expenditure to 
understand what it was and whether Mr and Mrs J considered it a regular obligation, even if 
it was not a payment under a credit agreement or a contract such as one for school fees. 
Payments such as this could be in return for services, could be one-off donations  or could 
be part of a regular commitment a member of a religious organisation considers themselves obliged to make. But Tandem didnt consider these questions, or consider whether these 
were regular payments and, if so, whether it was likely Mr and Mrs J would reduce or stop 
them when the loan was taken out.
Therefore, I disagree that Tandem had no reasonable cause to question these payments. It 
is Mr and Mrs Js responsibility to declare relevant information as part of their application  
but it is the lenders responsibility to ensure that the loan is affordable for the customer, and 
to carry out proper checks to make sure it is. It is clear from the regulations outlined above 
that a lender must take into account a number of factors when assessing affordability. 
The payments to R totalled £850 during the month for which Tandem had the bank 
statement. This was a significant outgoing and amounted to over 20% of Mr and Mrs Js 
declared income. I think this ought to have led Tandem to ask further questions about what 
this money was for and whether it was regular expenditure for Mr and Mrs J. This is because 
 taking a common-sense view  Tandem had reason to doubt the evidence or information it 
had been provided by Mr and Mrs J about their outgoings. 
Likewise, there are further transactions shown in the bank statements which dont seem to 
be reflected in the outgoings in the I&E. There are direct debits totalling £49.74 which appear 
to be for life insurance (£25.29), appliance insurance (£16.99 and £5.46) and a charity 
donation (£2.00) which havent been listed in the outgoings. There are also standing orders 
totalling £214 which havent been taken into account. It appears from Tandems file that it 
was noted that some (but not all) of these standing orders were weekly payments to Mr and 
Mrs Js children but they still havent been entered as outgoings in the I&E. 
These direct debit and standing order payments  which were clearly regular financial 
commitments coming out of Mr and Mrs Js account  would have added a further £263.74 
to Mr and Mrs Js outgoings. But Tandem doesnt appear to have questioned these or added 
the figures to the outgoings in the I&E  or alternatively satisfied itself Mr and Mrs J would no 
longer pay them - despite the information in the bank statement, which I think ought to have 
given it reason to doubt the evidence or information it had been provided by Mr and Mrs J 
about their outgoings.
The I&E shows verified figures of £500 a month for food, £50 for petrol and £0 for travel 
expenses. However, the statement provided to Tandem shows payments of £230.20 that 
month to TFL Travel and LUL Ticket Machine (including three payments of £58.20) which 
seem highly likely to be payments for travel within London  yet the verified figure says 
there are no outgoings for travel. 
There are in the region of £650 worth of payments to supermarkets and food shops and 
£160 to petrol stations. I accept that the entirety of these amounts may not have been for 
food or petrol respectively, but it doesnt appear that Tandem has used any of the 
information available to it in the bank statement to question whether the outgoings in the I&E 
are accurate despite having reason to doubt the evidence or information it had been 
provided by Mr and Mrs J about their outgoings.
The bank statement and credit reports available to Tandem also show the amounts paid out 
by Mr and Mrs J for their credit commitments. In some cases, these dont match the amounts 
on the I&E listed as the verified payment. For example, for one lender Mr and Mrs J had 
three unsecured loans, the verified payment noted on the I&E show amounts of £63.02, 
£41.91 and £46.02 for these loans. On the bank statements, there are direct debits for 
£59.11, £73.65 and £39.46 for this lender and the credit reports show monthly payments of 
£63, £39 and £59. Yet Tandem doesnt appear to have asked any questions to resolve these 
discrepancies and has simply used the figures provided by Mr and Mrs J as the verified 
payment despite having reason to doubt the evidence or information it had been provided by 
Mr and Mrs J about their outgoings. 
Ive looked at the credit report which was available to Tandem at the time of Mr and Mrs Js 
loan application. The summary showed that Mrs J had opened three accounts and Mr J opened one account in the last six months. Of the credit shown on the credit reports, over 
£21,000 had been borrowed within the nine months prior to the application. 
Whilst the loan reduced Mr and Mrs Js monthly expenditure by consolidating some  but not 
all  of their debts, it increased their overall indebtedness by almost £5,000 (for the 
additional amount of £1,147.95 on top of the consolidation, the acceptance fee of £995 and 
the broker fee of £2,750). It also meant that the debt was secured against their home over 
15 years which would add a significant amount of interest to the amount they initially 
borrowed and mean that their home could be repossessed if they were unable to maintain 
their repayments.  
For the reasons above, I dont think Tandem carried out adequate checks having regard to 
the information it held about Mr and Mrs Js financial circumstances, particularly given the 
large amount of the loan and the fact it would be secured against their home. Whilst MCOB 
doesnt say that a lender must obtain bank statements, it is good practice within the 
mortgage industry for a lender to obtain bank statements to verify the expenditure 
information provided. And in any case, regardless of whether or not it should have obtained 
bank statements, the fact is that it did  so this was information in its possession. In the 
circumstances of this case I think it would have been prudent for Tandem to ask more 
questions about what was shown on the bank statement it did have and to request further 
bank statements in order to verify their expenditure to resolve those common sense 
concerns. 
Mr and Mrs J have provided us with their bank statements from mid-June until 31 August 
2018. Ive looked at the month prior to the statement already seen by Tandem, so from 14 
June to 13 July 2018. It is my view that the monthly expenditure is consistent with the figures 
shown on the subsequent statement seen by Tandem. 
In relation to the payments to R, over this period Mr and Mrs J made payments of £420 on 3 
July and £100 on 10 July. So for this monthly period there were payments of £520, 
compared to £850 over the subsequent month. So this is an average of £685 a month over 
that two-month period. There is also a further payment of £400 on 28 August 2018. I note 
that the investigator didnt include the payment of £420 on 3 July in his view so calculated an 
average of £675 a month over July and August. But taking this into account, in fact Mr and 
Mrs J paid £1,770 to R over the full months of July and August which is an average of £885 
a month.
Tandem has said that these transactions were a discretionary spend as opposed to 
essential living costs and are not captured under any MCOB requirements. I dont think its 
necessarily reasonable to consider payments to be discretionary simply because there is no 
credit agreement or other contract in place  it will depend on all the circumstances. In this 
case, Mr and Mrs J have explained that the payments to R were their religious offerings, 
which were paid regularly as a form of worship. They have said that they felt that it wasnt 
really an option not to pay them. Tandem doesnt appear to have asked any questions about 
these payments at the time the loan was taken out. I think if it had made further enquiries, it 
would have been apparent that this was regular expenditure for Mr and Mrs J, to which they 
considered themselves committed, and should have been included on the I&E. 
The payments to R alone would have meant that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr and Mrs J 
as  without these payments being included on the I&E  they only had monthly free cash of 
£447.30.
I also note from the statements from 14 June to 13 July 2018 that Mr and Mrs J again had a 
number of other outgoings which were similar to those on the August statement provided to 
Tandem and not entered as outgoings in the I&E. These again included direct debits of 
£49.74 (the same figure as the August statement), standing orders of £194 (compared to 
£214 in the August statement) and £210.90 for travel expenses (compared to £230.20 in the August statement. These figures alone add a further £454.64 to Mr and Mrs Js monthly 
outgoings for the July statement period and £493.94 for the August statement period, which 
again demonstrates that the loan was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs J.
Had Tandem considered whether the information in its possession gave common-sense 
grounds for doubting what was on the I&E, as I think it fairly should have done, it would have 
asked for the further information Ive set out above. And had it considered any of this 
evidence, I think it ought reasonably to have questioned whether the loan was affordable 
and sustainable for Mr and Mrs J. And given the amount of this loan, and that it was secured 
on their property, the impact of that on Mr and Mrs J could be significant. I think this ought to 
have led Tandem, acting fairly, to question whether it was responsible to lend in these 
circumstances.
I note that Tandem says that it stress-tested the repayments on Mr and Mrs Js mortgage to 
ensure it remained affordable. The rules and guidance at the time set out that, when 
assessing affordability, lenders should apply an interest rate stress test to assess whether 
borrowers could afford their mortgage if the interest rate was 3% higher. 
On the I&E, following the stress test this showed monthly free cash of £424.30 (compared to 
£447.30 before). For a loan of £28,745 over 15 years, a difference of £23 doesnt appear to 
equate to an interest rate rise of 3%. However, given that I am of the view that this loan was 
unaffordable even before the stress test was carried out, it will be unnecessary for me to 
come to any specific conclusion in relation to this aspect. 
Tandem says that the reason for Mr and Mrs Js financial difficulties appears to be due to the 
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and this was not something which it could have foreseen 
when the loan was approved. However, Mr and Mrs C have said that they were already 
struggling prior to the pandemic and this loan escalated their difficulties and led to missed 
payments. 
I think the information available supports that the loan was not affordable or sustainable for 
Mr and Mrs J and that it was not assisting them by consolidating some of their debts. I 
accept that Tandem could not have foreseen or been expected to take into account the 
impact of the pandemic when making its lending decision. But I think it ought to have 
understood that the loan was not affordable and might lead to future financial difficulties. It is 
my view that had Tandem properly reviewed the information available to it and requested 
further information  as I think it ought to have done in the circumstances  it would not have 
been able to demonstrate that the loan was affordable or sustainable for Mr and Mrs J. 
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Tandem to offer Mr and Mrs J the loan secured 
against their home. I am of the view that it didnt carry out sufficient checks and, had it done 
so, it would have shown that the loan was unaffordable and unsustainable for Mr and Mrs J 
and should not have been offered. In all the circumstances I think Tandem lent irresponsibly. 
In relation to the valuation, Mr and Mrs J have said say that Mr J only owned 40% of the 
property and not the 65% used by Tandem in its I&E. Tandem says that the broker provided 
the information suggesting Mr and Mrs J owned a 65% share of the property and it didnt 
obtain any additional verification of this but sense checked this against the declared shared 
ownership rental payment. 
In relation to the valuation figure used for the property, Tandem says that the estimated 
value given by Mr and Mrs J was £400,000. It used a figure of £193,000 which was from its 
pre-valuation which it says fell within its policy parameters at the time of the loan and a full 
valuation wasnt required. This meant that with the total borrowing of £211,626 against the 
property, the loan to value (LTV) used by Tandem in its I&E was 109.7%..
Tandem says the value of £193,000 reflected the shared ownership nature of the property 
against the Mr and Mrs Js estimated value of £400,000 and, in reality, the valuation 
attributed was significantly lower than 65% of £400,000. Given the information available, it may well be that the property may have been valued at a 
higher amount had a full valuation been conducted, which would have decreased the loan to 
value (LTV) in itself. However, had Tandem verified the proportion of shared ownership 
then this may have increased the LTV. 
Assuming that the value of £400,000 was accurate (which seems reasonable given the pre-
valuation figures I have seen for similar properties) and that Mr J owned 40%, this would 
give a valuation of £160,000. This would have given a LTV of 132.3%, taking into account 
the existing first charge loan. 
Given the LTV used by Tandem was already high, I might expect Tandem to take this into 
account when determining whether it was appropriate to lend in the other circumstances of 
this case. I would also expect it to use accurate figures when calculating the LTV. The fact 
that Tandem says the valuation met the requirements of its internal policy doesnt of itself 
mean it has acted fairly. However, given that I am of the view that this loan was lent 
irresponsibly in its entirety, it will be unnecessary for me to come to any specific conclusion 
in relation to this aspect. 
Putting things right
Whilst I dont think the loan should have been given, Mr and Mrs J have had the benefit of 
the money borrowed, so I think it right that they should have to repay that amount. However, 
had the loan not been given then they would not have had to pay the fees, charges or 
interest incurred on this. 
In order to put things right, Tandem should therefore treat all payments made by Mr and Mrs 
J as payments towards the capital amount of the loan. It should not include any borrowing 
for fees and charges.
I recognise that this is not an ideal way of putting things right  it doesnt take into account 
the fact that Mr and Mrs J did consolidate some (though by no means all) of their existing 
debts, and have therefore, through my award, saved interest on that debt they would 
otherwise have paid. However, given the interest rates charged by Tandem, and the difficulty 
of estimating what Mr and Mrs J would have paid towards other debts, I think its reasonable 
to take a relatively simple approach to resolving this matter by simply saying that Tandem 
should not retain fees and interest on money it ought not fairly to have lent. Im satisfied that 
this is as close to fair compensation as it is reasonably possible to get in this case. 
So I recognise that there is likely to have been some saving through consolidating high-
interest short-term loan and credit card debt into the secured loan, albeit I dont think I can 
accurately estimate that saving, and I dont think its likely to be very substantial. However, 
my award for financial loss will result in Mr and Mrs J having paid no interest on any of the 
consolidated debt. In recognition of the fact that this may, to some extent, leave Mr and Mrs 
J over-compensated, I do not intend to award further compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience in addition to that award. 
In light of the above, I require Tandem to do the following:
Tandem should calculate the amount borrowed without any fees or charges 
(£25,000). It should then treat any payments made to it by Mr and Mrs J as payments 
towards this capital amount. 
If this results in an overpayment, Tandem should pay Mr and Mrs J simple annual 
interest of 8%* on any overpayments, running from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement.
If there is still a balance outstanding, Tandem should agree a suitable repayment 
plan with Mr and Mrs J.
Tandem should remove any information about the loan from Mr and Mrs Js credit files.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Tandem to take off tax from this interest. Tandem 
must give Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
I also note that Mrs J was previously in an IVA, which completed in December 2022. This 
loan does not appear to have formed part of the IVA. However, it will be for Mrs J to satisfy 
herself that she has complied with any obligations she may have under the IVA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint against Tandem Home Loans 
Ltd and require it to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman