DRN-3724232
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Aviva Insurance Limited havent applied the terms of their policy to 
replace her boiler when it was beyond economic repair and she had to make her own 
arrangements.    
      
What happened
Mrs Z holds a heating cover insurance policy with Aviva which is guaranteed to replace the 
boiler if it is deemed beyond economical repair. Mrs Z would be liable for the installation 
costs. 
In April 2022 Mrs Zs boiler broke and she contacted Aviva on 5 April. They arranged for an 
engineer to come two days later, and after inspection he deemed it beyond economical 
repair. Mrs Z agreed to pay the cost of the installation as per the terms of the policy. 
After two video calls with installations a verbal quote was given for £2890 for the installation 
as they said the system needed to be converted. 
Following the call, Mrs Z established that her system was already converted and called 
installations back to advise. After further calls, an altered quote of £2310 was given on 13 
April, and Mrs Z paid a deposit of £750 towards the installation costs, with the balance to be 
paid on completion.  
Installations rang Mrs Z back again  on 12 April and increased the quote to £2570 because 
they didnt have a boiler the same size as Mrs Zs in stock, and so they would need to 
upgrade the system to fit a bigger boiler. Mrs Z was unhappy with this as she didnt want a 
bigger boiler. 
Aviva rang again on 13 April and advised that Mrs Z could keep her old system. Mrs Z asked 
for this quote in writing, but the quote was never received. 
Mrs Z made further calls during the next few days with no resolution, and on 17 April she 
made arrangements to have a new boiler fitted privately, which was completed on 19 April.  
Mrs Z says she had her 14 month old granddaughter living with them and her husband is 
vulnerable, so they had to get the boiler sorted out. 
Mrs Z complained to Aviva. They sent a final response in May 2022 in which they said that 
they couldnt offer a cash alternative to the boiler, but they did accept that the service 
provided hadnt been up to standard, and they offered to pay £350 in compensation.  
Mrs Z was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Zs complaint and he thought the offer of 
compensation was fair.   
Mrs Z disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
In this case I have to decide is whether Aviva have complied with the terms and conditions of 
the policy and acted fairly in the way they have dealt with the claim. 
The policy says:
After  6 months   After  six months  of cover  (and  each  year thereafter  that you 
renew  the policy);  if your boiler  is less than 7 years  old we will source  replace  and 
install  a new boiler.  If it is 7 years  old or older  we will source  and replace  your 
boiler  through  our approved  installer  and you will be required  to pay the installation  
cost.  A survey  will be completed  and an individual  quotation  will be provided.  The 
age of the boiler  will be determined  by the GC/Serial  number  or its installation  
date.  If you can evidence  it was installed  within  12 months  of its manufacture.
Installation costs currently start from £ 1500 and can vary depending on, whether i t is a 
basic swap  to a newer mode l or a complete system change including system cleaning, 
pipework, radiators. scaffo lding, asbestos removal etc. In 201  9 the highest cost paid for a 
complex installation was £3000.
The new boiler  make  and model  will be chosen  by us and will provide  a suitable  
level  of heating  and hot water  for your property.  It will match  your existing  boiler  
type (e.g.  a combination  boiler  will be replaced  with a combination  boiler.  Any 
heating  system  or boiler  upgrade  costs  will be charged  for. There  is no cash  
alternative  to the replacement  offered.
The terms are clear that although the appliance would be replaced free of charge, Mrs Z 
needed to pay the installation costs and also that there was no cash alternative to the 
replacement offered. And so Im satisfied that Aviva havent done anything wrong in not 
offering to pay the cost of Mrs Zs new boiler.  
However, I think that the level of service that Mrs Z has received is well below that which she 
should have received, and I am satisfied that the impact on her, although sort term, was 
significant. 
Initially, Mrs Z was happy to pay the installation costs to have the new boiler installed under 
the terms of the policy. This is evidenced by her prompt payment of the £750 deposit that 
was required when the survey was completed. Its clear that Mrs Z just wanted to get the 
new boiler sorted out because she had a vulnerable husband and child living in the property. 
However, Avivas lack of action following Mrs Z making the deposit payment is where things 
have started to go wrong, and what ultimately pushed Mrs Z make her own arrangements for 
replacing the boiler. 
Mrs Z was given incorrect information about what work was required by Avivas appointed 
contractors on at least two occasions, and she was not provided with an accurate written 
quote, despite paying a deposit and requesting it. I can see how this would have affected 
Mrs Zs confidence in the service she was receiving. 
In addition, despite paying the deposit, Mrs Z received no contact regarding fitting, and spent 
several days ringing Avivas contractors, leaving messages and not receiving call backs. 
Unable to get a firm date for the fitting of the replacement boiler added to the stress of the 
situation at home that she was managing, which was impacted by the vulnerable 
dependants in the household.  So, after 10 days of having no heating or hot water and no 
resolution, Mrs Z made her own arrangements, which the independent contractor carried out 
quickly.  
 
When a consumer takes out a policy to cover the breakdown of an appliance, it is 
disappointing for the service that is then provided to be so poor that you ultimately have to make your own arrangements for the repair or replacement. So, taking into account the 
inconvenience caused by having to do so, and the period of time that Mrs Z was without 
heating and hot water with vulnerable dependants in the property, I propose to increase the 
award that has been offered for distress and inconvenience.     
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mrs Zs complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
Aviva have responded that they have nothing further to add. Mrs Z has responded and 
would like me to consider compensating her for the cost of the boiler as she has paid the 
premium and the call out excess, and so is out of pocket.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I can see why Mrs Z feels as she does, the premiums did give her the benefit of cover 
for the period of insurance, and a call out fee would have been paid whoever she had called 
to look at the boiler. I also note that the replacement boiler cost paid by Mrs Z was around 
the same figure as she was quoted by Avivas contractors for installation only. 
So, I am satisfied that the £500 I have recommended is sufficient for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I am therefore making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Aviva Insurance should pay Mrs Z £500 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Zs complaint, and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put 
things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman