DRN-2917827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the interest rate on their mortgage, now owned by Landmark 
Mortgages Limited. They say they are trapped with their lender and are made to pay high 
interest rates because they arent being offered any alternatives. Mr and Mrs B are being 
represented on this complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with the former Northern Rock in March 2007. The 
mortgage was on a fixed rate of interest until 1 September 2008. 
The financial crash happened, and Northern Rock collapsed. They stopped offering new 
interest rates to their borrowers. Northern Rock was nationalised, and Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage was transferred to NRAM, then on to Landmark. As the current owner of Mr and 
Mrs Bs mortgage, Landmark are responsible for the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B have said they are trapped paying a high standard variable rate (SVR). They 
consider themselves to be mortgage prisoners. 
Landmark have said that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage has operated in line with their terms and 
conditions and they said they are closed to new business, so they dont offer any alternative 
interest rates. Neither NRAM or Landmark offered new rates to any of their customers. 
Landmark did explain that Mr and Mrs B remain free to repay their mortgage or move to 
another lender at any time as there are no early repayment charges (ERC) that would be 
charged on the mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with what Landmark had told them, so they brought their 
complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think that Landmark acted unfairly. So Mr and Mrs B 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer from 2007 confirms that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was taken out on a 
fixed rate of interest of 3.99% until 1 September 2008. Once this fixed rate ended, they 
would be charged Northern Rocks SVR for one year and nine months, followed by the SVR 
with a loyalty discount of at least 0.25% applied for the remainder of the term. 
There isnt anything specified in the mortgage offer that says that Mr and Mrs B would be 
entitled to another rate of interest once their one expired. And from what I can see, the 
mortgage has run in line with the terms and conditions of that offer. 
Because of Northern Rocks collapse and nationalisation, NRAM was a closed book lender 
unable to offer new interest rates to any of their customers. So all their other customers were 
in the same position as Mr and Mrs B. Landmark doesnt offer new rates to any of their 
customers either, and there is no obligation for them to do so. The mortgage regulation rules 
dont say that a lender has to offer new interest rates to a borrower, only that the lender must 
treat the borrowers fairly. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs B have said they have suffered financial stress because they 
have been paying higher interest rates, but their lenders werent obliged to offer new rates. 
Landmark hasnt put any barriers in Mr and Mrs Bs way so if they wanted to move their 
mortgage to another lender, Mr and Mrs B would have been able to because there were no 
ERCs to pay on their mortgage. I understand that Mr and Mrs B felt they were unable to do 
so because of their own personal circumstances, but I cant hold Landmark responsible for 
that. However, I understand that since then, Mr and Mrs B have now paid off their mortgage 
with Landmark. 
Mr and Mrs B have said that the SVR that they have been paying is unfairly high when 
compared to competitive rates offered by other lenders. And I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B 
feel they could be paying less if they had the option of taking out a product. But Im satisfied 
that NRAM and Landmarks SVR has been comparable to the SVR and reversion rates that 
are charged by other similar lenders. I do appreciate and understand that Mr and Mrs B have 
been in a difficult situation and they would have preferred their mortgage payments to be 
lower, but I cant find that Landmark have treated them unfairly because of the rate they 
have been asked to pay. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision and understand that 
they dont feel that what has happened is their fault  which it isnt. But NRAM were not able 
to provide new interest rates due to their collapse and nationalisation and Landmark have 
chosen not to. Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs B have been treated unfairly as a result of 
that.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman