DRN-2971513
The complaint
In summary, Miss H has complained that TFS Loans Limited provided her with two loans 
when she wasnt able to afford them. 
What happened
In January 2015, TFS gave Miss H a loan for £3,000 repayable over 48 months. The interest 
rate on the loan was an APR of 48.9%. The total charge for the credit was £3,100.80, which 
meant the total amount repayable by Miss H for the £3,000 she was borrowing, was 
£6,100.80. The monthly repayments were £127.10. Miss Hs net salary was recorded on the 
application form as approximately £2,400 a month. 
In March 2017, TFS gave Miss H another loan for £7,000 repayable over 60 months. The 
interest rate on the loan was an APR of 48.9%. The total charge for the credit was £9,418.40 
which meant the total amount repayable by Miss H for the £7,000 she was borrowing, was 
£16,418.40 The monthly repayments were £273.64. Miss Hs net salary was recorded on the 
application form as approximately £1,962.00 a month. 
In its response to Miss Hs complaint, TFS addressed the loan taken out in 2017. It said the 
loan was taken out to repay an existing loan, carry out work to her property and garden, and 
to help pay for a holiday. It explained that it used a verification tool to confirm the amount 
received into her bank account each month. It said Miss H had told it that her partner paid 
the mortgage and all bills.  
It went on to say that the notes from the first loan account, recorded that her partner had 
been out of work which was why she had fallen behind with her payments. And a payment 
arrangement had been set up. 
TFS then explained why it wasnt upholding her complaint. It had used an Experian report to 
confirm her credit commitments and had included this in its affordability assessment. It 
identified that she had surplus income of £852 a month. And she had provided plausible 
explanations for her county court judgements (CCJ). Based on the information Miss H had 
provided, it thought the loan was affordable. 
After Miss H referred her complaint to this service, TFS said that it hadnt received a 
complaint about the first loan. It subsequently issued a final response to her in respect of the 
first loan taken out in January 2015. 
In its response TFS explained the application and underwriting process that had been 
carried out in respect of this loan. Her net salary was recorded as £1,100 a month after tax. 
It also said she received tax credits of £289 a month and child benefit of £144 a month. Her 
wage slip showed a net income of £901.82 a month. It had calculated that she had a 
disposable income of £253.93 a month. And it thought the loan was affordable for her.
Miss Hs concerns were investigated by one of our adjudicators. He explained that he 
thought TFS should have verified the information provided by Miss H about her expenditure. 
And he said it could have asked for her bank statements to do this. So, he didnt think the 
checks were proportionate. 
He went on to say that as he hadnt heard back from Miss H regarding his request for bank 
statements in respect of other accounts he thought she had, he hadnt been able to assess 
what better checks would have shown, or for him to be able to say it was wrong of TFS to 
have provided the loan to Miss H. Miss H didnt agree so, the case has been passed to me 
for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 July 2021. I explained why I intended to uphold the 
complaint. I asked for responses by 8 August 2021. Miss H replied and said she accepted 
my decision. 
We contacted TFS on 19 July 2021 and asked it if it accepted or rejected my decision. It 
responded on 12 August 2021. It said it was seeking legal advice and asked for further time 
to prepare a full response. 
I considered TFS request and wrote to it on 12 August 2021. I explained that the request 
for further time has been received four days after the deadline for responses had expired. 
And I noted that TFS had provided no explanation as to when a response would be 
provided.
I went on to say that I had thought very carefully about whether to agree to the request. And 
I noted that TFS Loans Limited has already had over a month to seek any legal advice it 
considered it needed to obtain, in order to respond to my decision.  I also said that we had 
written to TFS on 19 July 2021 to remind it that any further submissions needed to be 
provided by 8 August 2021.
The only communication we had since the provisional decision was issued, was its e-mail
received that morning. I explained that I didnt have to agree to TFS request. That was a
matter for me to decide. And given what I had said above, I thought arguably TFS had had 
sufficient time to obtain advice and respond to my provisional decision. I went on to explain 
that I also needed to consider whether adding further delay to providing Miss H with a final 
decision, was fair on her as well.
I decided to grant an additional 2 weeks from 8 August 2021 for TFS to provide its 
response. And I explained that its response needed to be with me by 22 August 2021. For 
the avoidance of any doubt, I said I wasnt prepared to grant any further time extensions. I 
thought a total of six weeks was more than sufficient time for TFS to seek any advice and 
provide me with its response. And I said I would proceed to issue my final decision 
immediately after that date if no further submissions were received.
Despite my granting this additional time, TFS didnt respond within the time frame I 
specified. As no further submissions have been received, I see no reason to change my 
opinion on this case, from what I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Hs complaint.
Having done so, Im decided to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if TFS treated Miss H 
fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the loans.
1) Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss H 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did TFS make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss H would be 
able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
The rules that TFS had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess, whether Miss H could afford to repay the loans she was wanting to take 
out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think what 
this meant in practice, was that the scope and extent of TFS checks needed to reflect the 
nature of the loan, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks TFS needed to carry as part of its affordability assessment, had to be borrower 
focussed. What I mean by this, is that the checks needed to consider whether paying the 
loans back would cause Miss H any difficulties or have any adverse consequences for her. 
They would also need to take into account factors such as the amount of money being lent, 
the term of the loans and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest 
rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Miss H had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult 
for her to make the loan repayments with a low income. 
It would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts she had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments on a given income. 
The length of the loan term would also be relevant, partly because where the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances affecting Miss Hs ability to repay, 
where repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether TFS completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss H would be able to repay her loans in a 
sustainable way. 
In summary then, the circumstances of these loan applications are as follows:Miss H was applying for loan 1 which had an APR of 48.9% and loan 2 which also had 
an APR of 48.9%.
Miss H was recorded by TFS as having a monthly income of approximately £2,400 when 
loan 1 was taken out and £1,962 a month when loan 2 was taken out. 
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Miss H borrowed. 
The credit reports obtained by TFS as part of its underwriting process, showed that Miss 
H had defaults at the time both loans were taken out. 
Individually and taken together, I think there are several flags here which I believe should 
have caused TFS to question whether it should have provided Miss H with further credit on 
each occasion she made the loan applications. So, I think it was important for TFS to have 
conducted checks which gave it a thorough understanding of Miss Hs financial position and 
to scrutinise the information it gathered carefully, asking follow-up questions where 
necessary, before agreeing to lend. 
TFS has said that based on the information Miss H had provided and the checks it carried 
out, it thought loan 1 was affordable. So, Ive gone on to consider if the checks it carried out 
were reasonable and proportionate, and whether it made a fair lending decision in respect of 
that loan. 
I am somewhat surprised and concerned by the lack of checks TFS carried for this loan 
application. It appears to have accepted what Miss H told it about it about her expenditure, at 
face value. 
Miss H appears to have suggested that the income and expenditure information she 
provided might not have been accurate. Im not making any finding as to whether or not this 
was the case. But the CONC rules under which TFS operated at this time do anticipate that 
borrowers may not always provide accurate information. These rules require lenders to take 
proportionate steps to establish whether a loan applicant can afford the loan  including, in 
most circumstances  taking steps to verify customer declarations about income and 
expenditure.
Miss H told TFS that her partner met the majority of the household bills. It seems to me from 
the information TFS obtained about Miss Hs income that it summarised in its response to 
her complaint, that her earned income was relatively low, although it was supplemented by 
tax credits and child benefit. It seems logical to me, that reasonable and proportionate 
checks should have included verifying all of her income and her own expenditure. And I dont 
understand why TFS didnt do that in this case, taking into account the circumstances of this 
loan application that Ive summarised above. 
One of the difficulties given the length of time since the loan was taken out, is understanding 
what reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown, if TFS had carried them out. 
Our adjudicator asked Miss H for copies of her bank statements. And he then asked for bank 
statements for other accounts he said he had identified. Miss H hasnt been able to provide 
these additional bank statements. The adjudicator said that as Miss H hadnt been able to 
provide this information, he hadnt been able to assess what better checks would have 
shown, or for him to say it was wrong of TFS to have lent to Miss H.
It could potentially be problematic to assess detriment in this case, as TFS hasnt in my 
opinion, carried out the appropriate borrower focussed checks, that the circumstances of the 
loan application suggest should have been carried out. And its also potentially difficult as 
Miss H hasnt been able to provide the additional information our adjudicator asked her for. But that doesnt necessarily mean that Miss H hasnt suffered detriment, or that Im not able 
to make a determination on whether the loan was sustainably affordable for her.
I say this because this loan was taken out over six years ago. And I dont think given the 
length of time that has elapsed since then, that its necessarily surprising or unreasonable 
that Miss H hasnt been able to provide our service with the information our adjudicator 
asked her for. And the reality is, that if TFS had carried out the reasonable and proportionate 
borrower focussed checks that it should have done when the affordability of the loan was 
being assessed, then Miss H wouldnt need to be asked to provide that information now.
Notwithstanding the lack of reasonable and proportionate checks carried out by TFS, there is 
some information for me to consider. TFS has referred to a credit report that it obtained at 
the time of the application. This shows that in March 2013 Miss H had a CCJ registered 
against her. And in April, May, July and August 2014, she had several accounts that went 
into default. Ive thought about what TFS has said about this. I dont agree that it was 
reasonable for it to have accepted at face value, what it considered to be plausible and 
persuasive explanations provided by Miss H. 
I say this because it seems to me that that the defaults in the credit history report, which 
were only some 6 months or so prior to this loan application, should have alerted to TFS to 
the fact that Miss H had very recently been in financial difficulties. And when combined with 
the CCJ and that she said her partner paid most of the household bills, this should all in my 
opinion prompted it to question the affordability of the loan for her and to carry out further 
checks regarding her financial position.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I think TFS should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted to the 
circumstances of Miss Hs application. This was a high cost loan being taken out by an 
individual with a relatively low income. Given this and the information TFS had about Miss H, 
further checks would in my opinion, need to verify her expenditure in addition to the checks it 
carried out to verify her income, and establish that she was able to afford the loan. 
At the adjudicators request, Miss H provided copies of her bank statements for the period of 
2014-2017. These show that for the 3 months prior to this loan being taken out Miss Hs 
account was overdrawn each month. There are also payments in respect of a payday loan. 
This all indicates to me that Miss H was struggling financially. 
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?  
Whilst Miss Hs partner may have been paying the majority of household bills and 
contributing to the rent, the fact that her bank account was regularly overdrawn and she had 
taken out a payday loan, all indicates to me that she was still struggling financially, despite 
the financial support provided by her partner. 
I also think the information TFS already had about Miss H that was contained in the credit 
report, should all have led it to conclude that it was unlikely Miss H would be able to 
sustainably afford to make the monthly payments for this loan. And if it had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks by looking at her bank statements, then information 
Ive summarised above, should have reinforced the conclusion it should have reached on the 
information it did have; that the loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for her. 
Loan 2TFS has said that based on the information Miss H had provided and the checks it carried 
out, it also thought loan 2 was affordable. So, Ive gone on to consider if the checks it carried 
out were reasonable and proportionate, and whether it made a fair lending decision in 
respect of this loan. 
I am somewhat surprised and concerned by the lack of checks TFS carried out in respect of 
this loan application. It appears to have again accepted what Miss H told it about it about her 
expenditure, at face value. 
And as Ive said in respect of loan 1, the CONC rules under which TFS operated at this time 
required lenders to take proportionate steps to establish whether a loan applicant can afford 
the loan  including, in most circumstances  taking steps to verify customer declarations 
about income and expenditure.
Miss H told TFS that her partner paid her mortgage, rent and utility bills, childcare and food 
shopping. But given her financial position, it seems logical to me, that reasonable and 
proportionate checks should have included verifying her expenditure. And I dont understand 
why TFS didnt do that in this case, taking into account the circumstances of this loan 
application that Ive summarised above. 
One of the difficulties given the length of time since the loan was taken out, is understanding 
what reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown, if TFS had carried them out. 
As Ive said in respect of loan 1, our adjudicator asked Miss H for copies of her bank 
statements. And he then asked for other bank statements which Miss H hasnt been able to 
provide. The adjudicator said he hadnt been able to assess what better checks would have 
shown or for him to say it was wrong of TFS to have lent to Miss H, as he didnt have other 
bank statements.
Its potentially problematic to assess detriment in this case, as TFS hasnt carried out the 
appropriate borrower focussed checks, that the circumstances of the loan application 
suggest should have been carried out. And its also potentially difficult as Miss H hasnt been 
able to provide the information our adjudicator asked her for. But that doesnt necessarily 
mean that Miss H hasnt suffered detriment, or that Im not able to make a determination on 
whether the loan was sustainably affordable for her.
I say this because loan 2 was taken out over four years ago. And I dont think given the 
length of time that has elapsed since then, that its necessarily surprising or unreasonable 
that Miss H hasnt been able to provide our service with the further information our 
adjudicator asked her for. And the reality is, that if TFS had carried out the reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks that it should have done when the affordability of 
the loan was being assessed, then Miss H wouldnt need to be asked to provide that 
information now. 
Notwithstanding the lack of reasonable and proportionate checks carried out by TFS, as with 
loan 1, there is some information for me to consider. TFS has referred to a credit report it 
obtained at the time of the application. 
This shows that in addition to the CCJ registered against her in March 2013 Miss H had 
another CCJ registered against her in February 2016. And in addition to the accounts in 
default in April, May, July and August 2014, she had accounts that went into default in May 
2015 and June 2016. 
Furthermore, the credit report also shows that Miss H had CIFAS markers on her file. CIFAS 
is a member-based fraud prevention agency. Its database records information to protect financial businesses and their customers against fraud. There are a number of different 
markers that can be registered on a credit file. And in Miss Hs case the marker was 
category 4. The marker explained that due to application fraud, the facility was refused. It 
went on to explain that the name on the application was reasonably believed to be genuine, 
there were one or more material falsehood in personal details or other relevant information. 
This marker is very concerning. The information date on the credit file is 11 August 2016, 
which was only 7 months prior to Miss Hs application for loan 2. It indicates to me that only 
a few months prior to this loan application, Miss H had been refused credit by another 
financial institution. And it also suggests that this was because false information had been 
provided by Miss H. With such a marker on her credit file, I dont understand why TFS didnt 
act on this and carry out further checks on Miss Hs financial circumstances, to assess the 
affordability of the loan for her. This marker was clearly a flag for it to do so, rather than rely 
on the information she had given it. 
I think the information contained in the credit report paints a very disturbing picture of 
Miss Hs finances. The further defaults, the additional CCJ and the CIFAS markers, are all 
indicative to me of someone struggling to manage their finances. And when taken together 
with Miss H being recorded as having a credit balance of over £16,000, I find it difficult to 
understand how TFS could have concluded based on the information it did have about Miss 
H, that she could sustainably afford to repay the further loan for £7,000 that she was asking 
it for.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I think TFS should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted to the 
circumstances of Miss Hs application. This was a high cost loan being taken out by an 
individual with a poor credit history. Given the information TFS had about Miss H, further 
checks would in my opinion, were needed to verify her expenditure, and establish that she 
was able to afford the loan. 
At the adjudicators request, Miss H provided copies of her bank statements for the period of 
2014-2017. These show that for the months of January and March prior to this second loan 
being taken out, Miss Hs account was overdrawn. The February statement also shows pay 
day loan activity. In addition, the March statement shows that there was an unarranged 
overdraft charge and unpaid transaction charge. 
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?  
Whilst Miss Hs partner may have been paying the majority of household bills and 
contributing to the rent, the fact that her bank account was regularly overdrawn, she had an 
unauthorised overdraft charge and she had taken out a payday loan, all indicate to me that 
she was still struggling financially, despite the financial support provided by her partner. 
I also think based on the information TFS did have about Miss H, that it should have 
concluded that it was unlikely Miss H would be able to sustainably afford to make the 
monthly payments for this loan. And if it had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks by looking at her bank statements, then the information Ive summarised above, 
should have reinforced the conclusion it should have reached on the information it did have; 
that the loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for her.
So, based on the information TFS did have about Miss H, Im not satisfied that it could have 
reasonably concluded that she would be able to sustainably afford to make the monthly 
payments for this loan. For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think that in the particular circumstances of Miss Hs 
case, TFS should have realised it was unlikely she would have been able to repay her loans, 
and that it wasnt appropriate to lend to her. 
Putting things right
  I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss H to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on loans 
that shouldnt have been provided to her. So, I think Miss H has lost out and TFS should put 
things right for her. TFS should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans from the outset. Any 
payments made by Miss H should then be deducted from the new starting balances. 
If the payments Miss H has made total more than the amounts she was originally 
lent, then any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her with 
8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were 
paid by Miss H, to the date the complaint is settled. 
b) If there are still outstanding balances on the loans, then TFS should agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss H, bearing in mind the need to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions, and taking into account her 
current ability to repay the loans.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file as a result of these 
loans. *HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS 
should give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to uphold Miss Hs complaint about TFS 
Loans Limited. And it needs to calculate if any compensation is due to Miss H using the 
methodology set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman