DRN-2714483
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc granted his ex-partner a payment 
holiday on their joint mortgage without his knowledge or consent.
What happened
Mr P and his ex-partner took out a mortgage with NatWest in 2018. Theyve separated, but 
they still hold the mortgage jointly. NatWest granted a payment deferral on the mortgage for 
March, April and May 2020. The payment deferral was applied for by Mr Ps ex-partner, who 
lives in the property and usually makes the monthly payments. Mr P says his ex-partner 
falsely stated that hed agreed to the payment deferral.
Our investigator said NatWest had granted the payment deferral in accordance with 
guidance from the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA). It wasnt required to 
seek Mr Ps consent. Mr P didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest received an online request for a payment deferral for Mr Ps joint mortgage. 
NatWest put a payment deferral in place for April, May and June 2020. 
It seems Mr Ps ex-partner didnt have his consent to ask for a payment deferral. But 
NatWest didnt know this.
Mr P contacted NatWest in December 2018, after he separated from his ex-partner. He 
asked for a note on the account to say hed called and made an enquiry. Theres no record 
of him asking for restrictions to be put on the account.
When the Covid-19 pandemic started, the regulator and lenders had to react quickly, to help 
customers experiencing or worried about financial hardship. The FCA put in place a 
mortgage payment deferral scheme which required lenders to grant payment deferrals when 
they were requested with minimal checks and with ease. This meant that payments wouldnt 
be made to the mortgage for the period of the deferral and wouldnt be recorded on a credit 
file as arrears. But this money would need repaying eventually, usually by being added to 
the mortgage balance. Though other options for repaying the deferred amount are available.
Mr P says his ex-partner hasnt experienced hardship due to the pandemic. I dont know if 
thats the case or not, but NatWest wasnt required to check this. It was required to take what 
customers said at face value and grant the mortgage payment deferral, unless it was clearly 
not in their best interests.
NatWest has now updated Mr Ps address and put a note on the mortgage account that Mr P 
has moved out of the property and instructed that no changes should be made to the 
account without written consent from both parties. 
I dont think NatWest made an error or acted unfairly when it granted the payment deferral. It 
acted in accordance with FCA guidance and based on the information it was given. 
Mr P says his ex-partner committed fraud. We offer an informal dispute resolution service. 
Whether an offence has been committed or a law broken is a matter for a court to decide.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman