DRN-3174211
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) didnt 
give them sufficient information about the Unit Price Adjustment (UPA) when they chose to 
switch funds.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a Flexible Investment Plan with Prudential in which they invest in a with-
profits fund. In 2020, Mr B contacted Prudential as he wanted to switch from the Proof and 
Cautious Fund to the Growth Fund. He called Prudential asking about how to switch funds 
and called a number of times after hed received the form. Mr and Mrs Bs funds were held in 
a holding account after Prudential received their switch form before being moved to the 
Growth Fund on 25 November 2020.
On 26 November 2020, Mr B called Prudential and asked when the UPA of 2.72% would be 
applied to their plan. After asking some questions Prudential told Mr B that it would be 
applied but it would have to find out when. Prudential then sent an email to say that it would 
be applied at the end of the quarter  in February. Prudential later pointed out that this was 
an error and that the UPA isnt applied when funds are in a holding account  so it wouldnt 
be applied to Mr and Mrs Bs plan.
Mr and Mrs B complained. They felt that Prudential shouldve told them about this issue, and 
had it done so they would have made different choices. Prudential recognised it provided 
information that wasnt accurate and paid Mr and Mrs B £300 in total to compensate for this. 
Mr and Mrs B feel theyve lost out significantly because they werent told about the UPA not 
applying.
Our Investigator felt the offer Prudential had made was fair and reasonable. He explained 
that the documentation that was available to Mr and Mrs B explained that the UPA wouldnt 
be applied whilst the money was in the holding account. He said that Mr B never asked 
about the UPA in his calls prior to the switch and he didnt think that Prudential had done 
anything wrong in not mentioning it. But he said the information that Mr B was then given 
after the switch took place created a loss of expectation, and felt £300 compensation was 
fair and reasonable for this.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. They said that 
the UPA was a very important feature and shouldve been highlighted prominently. They 
would like significantly higher compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr and Mrs B but Ill explain why.
Should the UPA be applied?
The first thing Ive considered is whether Prudential were right in not applying the UPA to Mr 
and Mrs Bs plan. I do understand why it was important to Mr and Mrs B. They had held their 
Flexible Investment Plan for some time, which meant they experienced the UPA in March 
2020 which reduced the value of their investments. As time went on, Prudential applied 
UPAs which increased the value and Mr and Mrs B wanted to benefit from this to try and 
even out their losses earlier in the year. However, Ive looked at the information available 
about how Mr and Mrs Bs plan works and I cant agree that the UPA should have been 
applied when they switched funds.
Mr and Mrs B chose to switch funds in September 2020, and were told that the money would 
be held in a corresponding fixed rate account (the holding account) until they were 
reinvested in the new fund on 25 November 2020.
A letter that Mr and Mrs B received in September 2020 said:
The investment wont be subject to any adjustments during a quarter as described in the 
last section whilst units are held in the fixed rate funds.
I can also see that the relevant funds guide  the With-Profits Fund guide  said the 
following:
When your money is in the fixed rate account and waiting for us to move it into your
chosen fund on the next PruFund quarter date, itll grow at the Expected Growth Rate
that well have set for the fund youve chosen... but any smoothing adjustments, Unit
Price Resets, or suspension of smoothing wont apply.
The UPA is a smoothing adjustment, and Im satisfied that it doesnt apply to funds being 
held in the fixed rate (holding) account.
Did Prudential provide clear information?
Mr and Mrs B have said throughout that they were not explicitly told that the UPA wouldnt 
be applied to their plan if they switched funds. I agree that Prudential didnt highlight this 
information when speaking with Mr B, but Ive also noted that Mr B didnt ask about the UPA 
in any of the five phone calls he had prior to the switch, or in his emails.
The UPA is a smoothing adjustment that can happen and is applied typically when a large 
financial event occurs to help smooth the effects. As there was a significant event in March 
2020  the pandemic  Prudential applied a UPA. And during the pandemic it continued to 
apply them to try and smooth out the effects for the investors. So, whilst there was a regular 
frequency at the time, a UPA is not commonly applied at the frequency with which it has 
been over the last two years. So, I wouldnt expect notices about whether the UPA will apply 
to a fund switch to carry the prominence that Mr and Mrs B wish them to. What is important, 
is that the information was available and I can see that it was.
Mr B, during his first phone call about switching funds, was told he should consider speaking 
to his Independent Financial Advisor (IFA). It was Mr B that chose not to as he said he was 
financially literate and didnt feel he needed to pay for the advice. When Mr B received the 
fund switch forms he had questions about it and called Prudential. I can see that Prudential 
answered all of his questions  which centred around the Annual Management Charge 
(AMC)  promptly, and suggested that he got financial advice. None of Mr Bs questions 
mentioned the UPA. He asked specifically about the Expected Growth Rate (EGR) and 
Prudential answered his queries about this. He spoke to people in different departments in Prudential and they all answered his questions and were clear when they couldnt do this. 
There were points where it appeared Mr B wanted Prudentials advice  asking whether it 
was better to take different options  and Prudential directed him to seek out advice as it 
couldnt provide this. Im satisfied that Prudential answered all of Mr Bs questions when it 
could, and directed him to where he could get advice.
Had Mr and Mrs B asked specifically about the UPA prior to the fund switch, Id have 
expected Prudential to give them this information. And, had Mr and Mrs B spoken to their 
IFA Id expect them to have been advised about it. I can see that the relevant fund guide was 
available to Mr and Mrs B on Prudentials website to view, and Im satisfied they had 
opportunities to ask any information about the fund switch. I dont think Prudential needed to 
provide any additional information in these circumstances.
Loss of expectation
After Mr and Mrs Bs fund switch had taken place, Mr B called Prudential and asked about 
when the UPA would be applied. This is the first communication he made specifically about 
the UPA in relation to this fund switch. It was during this call that Prudential made an error. 
The representative did tell Mr B that she couldnt see a UPA had been applied to his plan 
and she looked at the website to see one was being applied to the Growth Fund. So she told 
Mr B that it would be applied. This was incorrect  but at this point the fund switch had taken 
place. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs B wouldve done something 
differently at this stage. But I do accept that being told the UPA would apply, then finding out 
this was incorrect wouldve been disappointing.
Prudential has sent Mr and Mrs B a total of £300 compensation for this error and I think that 
is fair and reasonable. Ive already explained why I dont think Prudential did something 
wrong prior to the fund switch, and the switch had already taken place when this information 
had been given. So, I think Mr and Mrs B experienced a loss of expectation and I think the 
£300 compensation Prudential has already paid is fair and reasonable so I wont be asking it 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman