DRN-2232290
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) mishandled his legal expenses 
insurance claim. 
Aviva use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance and manage claims on 
their behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including 
the acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
Mr M is unhappy with the way Aviva have handled his legal expenses insurance claim, which 
includes, but is not strictly limited to:
He submitted a claim in April 2017 with regards to an employment dispute, but never 
received a claim form. He had to chase for this to be sent to him again in September 
2018, and a further occasion in November 2018. 
Due to Avivas delays and insistence on carrying out a legal assessment, he was left 
with very little time to decide whether to accept a settlement, which had a deadline 
attached of 2 December 2018. 
He was told he would receive a phone call from the legal helpline to give advice on 
whether to accept the settlement offer, but nobody called him. He was therefore left 
without legal assistance and felt he had no other choice but to accept the offer.
Aviva did not adhere to their five-day response time when he sent a letter of 
complaint.
Mr M says that Avivas handling of his claim and lack of assistance caused him to accept a 
lower settlement, causing him a loss of around £1,000. However, our investigator did not 
uphold his complaint, as he did not consider the insurer to have done anything wrong. Mr M 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
Mr M says that he had to chase Aviva for claim forms on three separate occasions between 
April 2017 and November 2018, as nothing was sent to him. But I can see that Aviva 
emailed the claim form to Mr M on 10 April 2017 to the email address they had been given 
(which is the same email address we hold for him). It was sent again on 7 September 2018, 
and again on 28 November 2018 each time Mr M called saying that he had not received it.
It isnt clear why Mr M wasnt receiving the claim form, but I can see that Aviva had sent it to 
the correct email address, so I cannot say they are at fault for failing to send it. 
Mr M says the delays in the handling of his claim left him with very little time to decide 
whether to accept the offer that was on the table, as he had to give an answer by 
2 December 2018. But seeing as Mr M originally registered the claim back in April 2017, it is 
not clear why he waited almost a year and a half to chase the matter with the insurer if he 
did not receive a claim form. Aviva did not take any action as they had not received anything 
back from Mr M. So it seems the primary reason Mr M was left with so little time in which to 
consider the settlement offer was because he did not pursue or chase the matter up with the 
insurer. 
I also note that the claim form and supporting information required by Aviva was not received 
until 29 November 2018  just a few days before the deadline. Mr M was unhappy that the 
insurer could not get cover in place before 2 December 2018. But it is a requirement of the 
policy that a legal assessment be carried out to determine whether the claim should be 
covered, and if it has reasonable prospects of success. This is a common requirement 
across the vast majority of legal expenses policy, so I do not consider Aviva have treated 
Mr M unfairly by insisting on a legal assessment before agreeing cover.
Mr M says he called and spoke to one of Avivas agents on 30 November 2018 and was 
assured he would receive a call back from the legal helpline of the insurers panel solicitors. 
But he says he received no call and was left without legal assistance or advice regarding 
whether to accept the settlement offer. 
However, Ive seen evidence showing that Aviva did send a call-back request to the 
solicitors asking them to contact Mr M as soon as possible. So Im satisfied that the insurer 
didnt fail to action Mr Ms request. In any event, I can also see that the solicitors said they 
did try to call Mr M on four separate occasions but could not reach him. So I do not consider 
there is any fair and reasonable basis in which Aviva can be held liable for Mr M having to 
accept an allegedly inadequate settlement.
Mr M says that Aviva wrote to him to say they were going to close his file as they had not 
received a completed claim form, and he thinks it was wrong of them to assume he no 
longer wanted to pursue the claim. But the insurer cannot be expected to keep claims open 
indefinitely, and when they did not hear anything back from Mr M, I do not think it was 
unreasonable of them to assume he no longer wanted to pursue the claim.
Mr M also says that Aviva failed to meet their service standard of responding within five days 
when he complained on 11 October 2019, as it took them over a month to respond, which he 
says is a breach of consumer law. Even if Aviva did take more than five days to respond to 
Mr Ms correspondence, this does not amount to a breach of law, and neither is it a 
regulatory requirement either. It is simply the service standard Aviva sets in order to provide 
a good service. And in any event, the correspondence Mr M is referring to relates to the 
response to his complaint. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity, and so does not fall 
within the jurisdiction of this service to consider. So I will not be commenting any further on 
this point.
I appreciate Mr M was unhappy with having to deal with various intermediaries as part of his 
claim. But it is common for legal expenses claims to involve parties other than the insurer  
such as claims handlers and panel solicitors  as the insurer is not legally trained or in a 
position to deal with all aspects of the claim. 
In summary, having considered all the evidence, Im not persuaded that Aviva mishandled 
Mr Ms claim or failed to provide him with appropriate guidance and assistance. So I will not 
be directing them to take any further action.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman