DRN-2085537
The complaint
Mr S has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called 
Ferratum UK Limited. Mr S says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused him 
financial problems.
What happened
We now know Mr S took out 5 loans from Ferratum between February and July 2018. Ive 
enclosed a summary of Mr Ss borrowing, based on the information provided to us: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1. 18/02/2018 15/03/2018 1 £300 £372.00
2. 24/03/2018 25/04/2018 1 £300 £374.40
3. 26/04/2018 25/05/2018 1 £300 £381.60
4. 25/05/2018 29/06/2018 1 £300 £379.20
5. 17/07/2018 21/02/2019 4 £600 £303.29
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan number 3 onwards. Ferratum doesnt agree with this although it says it 
is prepared to otherwise settle the complaint, at the point of loan number 5. 
Mr S didnt agree to this offer, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ss complaint.
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
S could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Ferratum should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr S could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Ferratum told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Mr S. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which it should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some point, 
Ferratum should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which Ferratum most likely carried out appear to have been proportionate for loans 1 
and 2. I think these levels of checks, together with the income and expenditure details 
provided by Mr S, would have made those particular loans appear affordable for him. 
However, I think from the point of loan 3 onwards, a number of points are relevant. The first 
is that I think the credit checks Ferratum carried out would have showed Mr S was taking out 
short-term loans elsewhere. This type of borrowing, especially where high-cost lending is 
involved, can be a matter of concern and make further lending inappropriate . I accept there 
may be some debate about the extent to which Ferratum saw the other lenders Mr S was 
indebted to at that time, but it would have nevertheless seen that he had some outstanding 
short-term loans elsewhere at the point it granted him loan number 3. 
The other point here is that loan number 3 (in common with all the first 4 loans) was 
designed to be payable in one single payment. This meant the amount Mr S was expected to 
pay back was a relatively large part of his incoming monthly salary.
On the basis of these factors, I think Ferratum ought to have carried out more 
comprehensive checks on Mr Ss overall financial situation. It was for Ferratum to determine 
what these further checks ought to consist of, but for example it could have included looking 
at his bank statements to verify his income and spending patterns, or otherwise assessing 
the affordability of its lending. If it had done this, I think it would have been obvious that 
lending to Mr S wasnt the right thing to do; it was simply exacerbating his financial hardship.Thats because we know at the point of loan 3, he was otherwise indebted to 3 other short-
term lenders and had been borrowing consecutively for 3 months. I therefore think any 
reasonable assessment of Mr Ss situation would have shown he was having trouble 
managing money and was probably borrowing to meet normal ongoing commitments and 
those of other borrowing, as described above. Loan 4 followed the same pattern and as Ive 
said, I note loan 5 is already one where Ferratum has agreed to repay all the charges and 
interest for, so I wont do into any more detail here.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 3 - 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges on these from 
the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 3, 4 and 5 from Mr Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partly uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ferratum UK Limited should put 
things right for Mr S as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman