DRN-2730966
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank blocked a credit 
card payment which led to an increase in the cost of flights. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr M made a credit card payment to purchase flights. Tesco Banks systems 
held the payment for further checks and the transaction was blocked. Mr M spoke with 
Tesco Banks fraud team and verified the payment was genuine. But once the blocks on Mr 
Ms account were lifted, the price of the flight had almost doubled. Mr M booked the required 
flights but says the blocked transaction cost him over £1,800. 
Mr M complained by Tesco Bank didnt agree it had made a mistake or treated him unfairly. 
Tesco didnt offer to pay the difference between the flight costs. Mr M referred his complaint 
to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Tesco Bank had dealt with 
Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr M asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background to this case as all parties broadly 
agree about the key events. Ultimately, Mr Ms first attempt to purchase flight tickets was 
blocked for additional checks which Tesco Bank completed when he called. When the 
account was returned to normal a short time later, the price of the tickets had increased. 
Mr M has asked Tesco Bank to cover the difference. 
As our investigator has already said, the credit card terms and conditions say Tesco Bank 
can restrict its use where it has a valid reason. One of the reasons given is that the 
transaction seems unusual when compared to other transactions. Tesco Bank has provided 
credit card statements and the purchase of the flights does appear to be unusual in this 
case. Tesco Bank has explained the payment was highlighted for additional checks which is 
why it placed restrictions Mr Ms account. Im satisfied Tesco Bank acted in line with the 
account terms in this case. 
Mr M hasnt told us about unreasonable delays from Tesco Bank and says he contacted the 
bank quickly after the first transaction didnt got through. Mr M says the period between his 
attempts to book tickets was around five minutes. I appreciate the price of Mr Ms flights 
increased and that, as a result of the delay, he had to pay more. But I havent found Tesco 
Bank treated Mr M unfairly by blocking his first attempt. Ultimately, Im satisfied Tesco Bank 
did have genuine and legitimate concerns about the payment in question. And, as Ive said 
above, the terms of the credit card allow Tesco Bank to restrict access to an account in the 
circumstances raised. 
I also think its reasonable to say that Tesco Bank has no influence on the price of the tickets 
in question and wouldnt have been aware that it would increase to such an extent. I dont 
agree it would be fair to tell Tesco Bank to pay the difference in price in this case.
I note Mr Ms view that if he had been the victim of fraud he wouldve received protection 
under the Consumer Credit Act. Whilst that may be the case, Tesco Bank also has 
procedures and systems in place to mitigate the impact of fraud and identify suspicious 
transactions. As Ive said above, the checks and systems in place are in line with the 
account terms Mr M accepted when he opened the credit card. 
Ive very sorry to disappoint Mr M but I can only uphold a complaint and award 
compensation where I find a business has made a mistake or treated a customer unfairly. In 
this case, Im satisfied Tesco Bank acted in line with its account terms and that it had 
genuine concerns when it restricted Mr Ms credit card. I havent found Tesco Bank 
unreasonably delayed resolving the situation or treated Mr M unfairly. As Im satisfied Tesco 
Bank dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman