DRN-3820422
The complaint
Mr P complains that James Hay Administration Company Ltd (JHAC) failed to transfer his 
pension savings to a new provider in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what JHAC needed to do to put things 
right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness 
and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mr P held pension savings in a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) that was 
administered by JHAC. On the retirement of his financial advisor he decided to 
transfer his pension savings to another provider, and JHAC received a request to that 
effect from the new provider, via the automated Origo Options system, on 
11 September 2020.
At that time Mr Ps pension savings were held across a range of investments. So to 
complete the transfer JHAC first needed to instruct the sale of the pension 
investments and then, on receipt of the settled funds, pay the cash proceeds to the 
new provider. Mr P says that his pension savings amounted to approximately 
£1,200,000 at that time.
JHAC requested the disinvestments on 15 September, and the relevant trades were 
placed two days later. The majority of the proceeds were received by JHAC on 
22 September. However the sale of one asset, that Mr P says was valued at 
approximately £34,000, was delayed  it appears that the fund manager required 
some additional authorisation from JHAC. The delay wasnt identified until 
29 September and JHAC began to prepare the relevant paperwork requested by the 
investment manager.
But the investment manager then sent the sale proceeds to JHAC (before the 
requested paperwork had been completed) on 6 October. The entirety of Mr Ps 
pension savings were transferred to the new provider on 12 October 2020.
Mr P complained that the unreasonable delays to the transfer of his pension savings 
had meant he had lost out on investment returns whilst they were held in cash. He 
said that his estimates were that the market had risen by approximately 6% during 
the time of the delay. JHAC didnt agree with Mr Ps complaint. It said that it hadnt 
been warned in advance that the investment manager had changed its processes 
and required additional authorisation. So JHAC said that it had completed the parts 
of Mr Ps transfer, that were within its control, in line with its normal timescales.
There seems to be little disagreement between Mr P and JHAC about the timeline 
that applied to his transfer request. So the matter that I need to decide here is 
whether that timeline was reasonable, and whether I consider that JHAC is 
responsible for any delays.
From the evidence I have seen, my conclusion would be that, whilst the time taken 
for the transfer of all Mr Ps pension savings to complete was longer than might 
normally be expected, I dont think JHAC was responsible for that delay. It does 
seem to me that, unexpectedly, the investment manager asked JHAC for some 
additional authorisation information. And that it ultimately released the funds before 
that additional information had been received.
And I havent seen anything that makes me think JHAC unduly delayed any other 
steps of the end to end transfer. I accept what Mr P says, that the transfer could have 
been completed sooner. But what I need to consider is whether it should have been 
completed sooner. And, on balance, Im not persuaded that JHAC should have 
prioritised the completion of Mr Ps transfer against those it was processing for other 
consumers.
But I dont think that is the end of the matter here. As I explained earlier, the 
overwhelming majority of Mr Ps pension savings were disinvested without delay. So 
that meant that, by 22 September, those savings were no longer benefitting from any 
investment returns, and were ready to be transferred to the new provider.
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ps SIPP, but 
cannot find any specific reference to a transfer situation such as was faced here 
when a small part of the overall assets took an extended period to be disinvested. It 
seems that JHAC chose to treat Mr Ps transfer as a single instruction. So it waited 
for the entire instruction to complete before sending the pension funds to the new 
provider. If the delay had been minimal, and the reasons clearly identified, that might 
have been a reasonable course of action. But Im not currently persuaded that is the 
case here.
 
At first JHAC appeared to be unaware that there were problems with Mr Ps 
instruction being processed by the investment manager. It didnt ask the investment 
manager for more information until a week after the other trades had settled  and it 
seems that request involved not just Mr Ps pension savings, but those of other 
clients as well. And JHACs first attempt to provide the correct authorisation was 
rejected. So JHAC needed to talk with the investment manager to understand what 
signatures would be acceptable. It seems from JHACs notes that the individual 
required to sign the forms wasnt easily available.
I have also seen that Mr Ps financial advisor contacted JHAC on 1 October to 
enquire why the transfer had been delayed. And Mr P contacted JHAC himself on 
5 October to demand that the funds JHAC held should be transferred immediately. 
So I am satisfied that JHAC should have been aware of the urgency of the problem 
Mr P was facing.
I dont think it is acceptable to allow such a large value of pension savings to 
effectively be held in suspense, whilst a problem amounting to less than 3% of the 
total value was being investigated. And particularly since Im not persuaded that 
JHAC had any clear understanding of when the problem would be resolved. So in 
terms of treating Mr P fairly I think it would have been appropriate for the majority of 
his pension savings to have been transferred to the new provider, or at least for 
JHAC to have contacted Mr P to ask him whether he wished for this to happen rather 
than wait for all funds to be disinvested, whilst the problem on the residual fund was 
resolved. And even if there was a relevant section of the terms and conditions (although as Ive explained above I dont think there was) then I still think that making 
contact with Mr P to offer that approach would have been fair.
I accept that it would be unreasonable for me to expect JHAC to have a detailed 
picture of all the transfers it was processing at any time. So the steps Ive outlined 
above might not have been immediately apparent. But I think that by the time the 
issue was highlighted by Mr Ps financial advisor on 1 October, JHAC should have 
taken steps to mitigate Mr Ps potential investment losses by transferring the 
available funds immediately.
It follows that I dont currently think that JHAC has treated Mr P fairly and now needs 
to calculate whether he has lost out as a result.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr P has said that he has nothing further to add. JHAC has said that it 
doesnt agree with my provisional findings and explained why. Although I am only 
summarising here what JHAC has said, I want to reassure it that I have read, and carefully 
considered, the entire response.
JHAC says that the transfer request it received was for a full fund transfer  not a partial 
transfer. And so it was unable to transfer only some assets whilst leaving others invested. It 
says that in some circumstances it might asked the receiving scheme or member whether it 
wanted to resubmit the request as a partial transfer, but given the short delay, it doesnt think 
that would have been warranted here. But it says Mr P would have been able to make that 
request, at any time, regardless.
It says that it isnt unusual for some funds to take longer to settle than others. So it doesnt 
think the initial one-week delay was unreasonable. It says it would have been for the fund 
manager to contact JHAC sooner about the signature problems, and that would have helped 
identify there was a problem. Unfortunately, it says, this didnt happen.
The signatory that had been agreed with the fund manager was working remotely. So the 
relevant forms were signed as soon as he returned to the office. But JHAC notes that the 
sale proceeds were actually received before the renunciation document had been signed. So 
it says the fund manager was seemingly able to complete the sale without the new 
signature. It says that means any delay was not the fault of JHAC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what JHAC has said in response to my provisional decision. Although 
those comments dont persuade me that I should change my findings, I would like to 
comment further on the points that JHAC has raised.
I entirely accept that the initial delays could not reasonably have been foreseen by JHAC. 
And I think it acted promptly when the delay became apparent by getting in touch with the 
fund manager to agree a resolution. But I dont think those discussions gave JHAC any 
confidence that things would be resolved quickly. At that time JHAC thought it was 
necessary to provide a signature from a member of staff that was working remotely. I dont 
think JHAC had any expectation the required document would be signed in the days 
immediately following. So at that time, JHAC might have started to consider whether it 
should proactively contact the affected clients and seek alternative instructions.Fortuitously the fund manager did release the funds before the signature had been provided. 
Whilst JHAC might reasonably question why that change of approach took place, I dont 
think it is a matter for me to consider in this complaint. JHAC was aware that there was a 
problem, and its resolution might be protracted. I dont think the concerns that JHAC should 
have had, and the actions it should have taken, are mitigated by an unexpected change of 
approach by the fund manager.
The original request that JHAC received was for a full fund transfer. And so, initially, I agree 
that it was right that JHAC awaited the proceeds of all sales before completing the transfer. 
But, as I explained in my provisional decision, I think a point was reached at the start of 
October 2020 where, at the very least, JHAC should have sought updated instructions from 
Mr P. JHAC didnt do that and, at that time, had no expectation of when Mr Ps transfer 
would complete. So I still think that is the point at which something went wrong, and JHAC 
was responsible for the delays from that point.
So I dont think that JHAC has treated Mr P fairly and now needs to calculate whether he has 
lost out as a result.
Putting things right
I think that JHAC unreasonably delayed the transfer of the majority of Mr Ps pension 
savings. So, for those pension savings that had been disinvested, and the settlement 
received, before 1 October 2020, JHAC should calculate whether their late transfer caused 
Mr P to lose out. I can see that the funds were ultimately transferred on 12 October and Mr P 
says they were invested on 14 October. So JHAC should use an investment date of 5 
October 2020 into the same funds as Mr P was later invested (being the second working day 
after when I think an initial transfer should have happened) when assessing whether Mr P 
has lost out.
JHAC should compare the investments that Mr P made on 14 October, with those that could 
have been made if the funds had been available for investment on 5 October. If Mr P was 
only able to purchase fewer units in his chosen investments, JHAC should calculate the 
value of those additional units as at the date of this final decision. That number of units, or 
their value as at the date of this final decision, is the loss that Mr P suffered and should be 
paid to him.
The compensation should be paid into Mr P's new pension plan. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If JHAC is unable to pay the total amount into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. I think it reasonable to assume that Mr P is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, if Mr P would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.The compensation should be paid to Mr P within 28 days of JHAC being notified of his 
acceptance of this final decision. Should the compensation not have been paid by that date 
JHAC should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to the compensation amount 
from the date of this final decision to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs 
requires JHAC to deduct tax from this interest. JHAC must give Mr P a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct James Hay Administration 
Company Ltd to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman