DRN-4168015
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim she made on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim when her car was stolen. UKI declined the claim because it said the 
video footage of the car showed the wing mirrors were open which indicated that it was 
unlocked at the time of the theft. 
Mrs S complained and said she had locked the car, but UKI didnt change its decision. It said 
that the manufacturers dealership confirmed that when the car was locked, the wing mirrors 
would have folded inwards, and the settings couldnt be changed to stop this happening. 
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service, she told us that one of the wing mirrors was 
accidently damaged and it was replaced, which caused the automatic folding function to stop 
working. UKI said the manufacturer dealership confirmed it would only impact the one mirror 
that was replaced and not both. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld, 
he thought UKI acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim, but Mrs S didnt accept 
what he said. 
Mrs S provided a statement from the garage stating that changes were made to ensure both 
mirrors stayed open, and she maintains the wing mirrors had not folded since she got the car 
back. Our investigator didnt change his opinion and he said he was more persuaded by the 
invoice from the time of the repairs than the garages more recent statement. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. I 
issued my provisional decision on 18 May 2023 in which I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached but I would like to explain in more detail.
Firstly, I was sorry to hear of the passing of Mrs Ss grandmother, and I understand having 
her car stolen would have made what was already a challenging time more difficult. I also 
know hearing of UKIs decision to decline her claim will have been even more upsetting 
during this time. But I must put aside my feelings of sympathy and consider this case 
impartially based on the information that is available to me.  
The terms and conditions of the policy say We wont cover loss or damage to your car if the 
person using it doesnt take care to keep the car secure. For example, if anyone who uses 
your car:
 Left the car unattended and unlocked. This includes leaving windows, roof panels or hoods 
open or unlocked.
I dont think thats an unusual exclusion and its commonly found in motor insurance policies. 
However, I think its a significant exclusion and I would expect it to be highlighted in the 
policy documentation. Having checked Im satisfied it was highlighted in the summary 
documentation provided when Mrs S took out the policy.
In cases like this what I must consider is whether UKI carried out a fair investigation, 
reviewed all the evidence available to it and reached a reasonable decision. I think it has and 
Ill explain why.
Neither party disputes that the video footage prior to the theft shows the wing mirrors were 
open. UKI says it spoke to the manufacturing dealership who confirmed that the wing mirrors 
would automatically fold when the car is locked. It thinks this indicated the car had been left 
unlocked at the time of the incident, I dont think what it said is unreasonable based on what 
the dealership said.  
Ive looked at the invoice from Mrs Ss garage, it says the repair to the nearside wing mirror 
caused the automatic fold function to stop working and it would need recoding. Our 
investigator presented this information to UKI and it sought further clarification from the 
manufacturing dealership. They confirmed that the wing mirrors on the model of Mrs Ss car 
worked independently of each other, and if one was not working the other would still fold 
when secured. I would therefore expect that if the car is locked one mirror would fold, and 
the other would not, however, the video footage shows both wing mirrors open at the time. 
Mrs S later provided us a statement from her local garage, which says they disconnected the 
second wing mirror at her request. Ive thought about what the garage has said, along side 
the other information I have available. I usually find information from the time more 
persuasive than information recalled several months after the work was carried out. Having 
reviewed the invoice from the time the repairs were carried out, it makes no mention that the 
second wing mirror had been disconnected or that it would need reconnecting rather than 
recoding. As this is important information in relation to the work carried out, and what is 
required to rectify the problem of the mirror not folding, its something that I would have 
expected the mechanic to have mentioned.
UKI also had its investigators visit the garage and they spoke to the mechanic who carried 
out the repairs. But the mechanic didnt mention that the second wing mirror was working but 
had been disconnected. Ultimately, Im not persuaded by the garages statement. 
With cases like this where there is limited evidence from the time of the incident, I must 
decide what is most likely to have happened  and, on balance, I think it is more likely than 
not that the car had been left unlocked at the time of the theft. As I said above, the 
manufacturer dealership confirmed the automatic fold function is a feature of the car that 
cannot be turned off. I think the wing mirrors being open is likely to have made Mrs Ss car 
more susceptible to theft because it suggests the vehicle is open.
Mrs S doesnt think UKI included the statement her neighbour provided in its report, but Im 
satisfied it did. I find their more recent statement to Mrs S is in line with what was said to 
investigators when they were interviewed. But I dont think their recollection of the theft is 
enough to say the car had not been left unlocked.
Mrs S says UKI took too long to investigate, as such the CCTV footage her neighbour had of 
the theft was no longer available. UKI didnt instruct the investigators until around a month 
after she logged her claim, however its notes show that after receiving documentation from 
Mrs S, the claim was passed to a team to be validated. The process of validating a claim can 
take some time, and I dont think its unreasonable it instructed its investigators when it did. 
Even if it had been able to obtain the footage from Mrs Ss neighbour, Im not persuaded it would have changed things. I say this because, UKI doesnt dispute that Mrs Ss car was 
stolen, rather, it declined the claim on the basis the wing mirrors were open and it thinks the 
car had been left unlocked, and I dont think what it said is unreasonable. The footage Mrs S 
provided showed the wing mirrors were both open around half an hour before the car was 
stolen, and Mrs S confirmed she did not return to the car once she parked it. Given that 
testimony, I dont think the CCTV from her neighbour would have showed the car was locked 
 so I think it was unlikely to have changed UKIs decision. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, but having carefully considered 
everything, Im satisfied UKI carried out a reasonable investigation, and its decision to 
decline the claim was fair in the circumstances. So, I dont think it needs to do anything 
differently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S didnt accept what I said in my provisional decision, but as neither party provided 
additional information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from what I said 
provisionally.
My final decision
For the reasons I mentioned above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman