DRN-3657070
The complaint
Ms H, through her representative, complaints Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) 
gave her a line of credit she couldnt afford to repay and during the time Ms H had the facility 
Drafty continued to offer larger limits without checking her income and expenditure details. 
What happened
Ms H approached Drafty for a running credit facility on 14 September 2018. Ms H was given 
a facility with a £200 credit limit. The limit incrementally increased on four occasions until 
Ms Hs limit reached £920 in January 2020. Drafty has confirmed the facility still had an 
outstanding balance by February 2022, but this appears to have been repaid by the time the 
adjudicator assessed the complaint. 
Ms H was given a running credit account where she could either request funds up to her 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. She was also 
able to borrow further, up to the credit limit, as and when she repaid what she owed. To be 
clear, Ms H was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys final response letter it explained why it wasnt going to uphold her complaint 
because it had carried out proportionate checks. Unhappy with this outcome, Ms Hs 
representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Hs complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Ms H was likely 
to be able to afford the payment amount as outlined by the hypothetical payment schedule in 
Ms Hs credit agreement. This was calculated on the full £200 being drawn down at the 
outset and then being repaid over 12 months. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have 
initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the 
facility was affordable at the outset, it also had an obligation to monitor Ms Hs ongoing use 
of the facility. She thought by 18 September 2019 when Ms Hs credit limit was increased to 
£710 Drafty ought to have stepped in and perhaps have carried out further checks. Had it 
done so and having reviewed Ms Hs credit file which showed a number of defaulted 
accounts in the months the adjudicator felt the complaint shouldve been upheld. 
Overall, given the usage and what extra checks wouldve likely shown, Drafty ought to have 
realised that the facility had become unsustainable for her. Knowing this, in the adjudicators 
view Drafty shouldve stepped in and froze the interest on the facility.
 
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Ms H from 18 September 2019 should be refunded, along with additional simple interest 
of 8%. She also said any adverse information recorded on Ms Hs credit file from the uphold 
date should be removed from her credit file. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time (18 September 2019) but it agreed to only refund the interest 
fees and charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date. At the time the offer was 
made, Drafty explained this would lead to a refund (with tax taken off) of £527.34  it also 
agreed to remove any adverse information from Ms Hs credit file. 
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all of the interest fees and charges applied from 
18 September 2019. It said this was because: 
Since you have decided 18th September 2019 as the upheld date our understanding 
is that any amount given to the customer before this date was affordable and after 
this date is unaffordable.
Basis this, Drafty is well within their rights to collect the principle as well as interest 
on any drawdowns given prior to the upheld date. The above calculations has been 
done on the interest which is paid on the drawdowns which were taken by the 
customer after the upheld date.
Draftys offer was put to Ms H and she rejected it. As no agreement has been reached, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
As explained, Ms H was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Ms H would be able to both service and then repay her facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Ms Hs repayment record for any sign that she 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from this time  18 September 2019. And while, Ms H rejected the 
settlement offer by Drafty, she didnt disagree that this is the point where the complaint ought 
to be upheld. 
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from 
18 September 2019. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has 
focused on, is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of Ms Hs complaint. Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for Ms H while 
explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest charged after 
the 18 September 2019 needs to be refunded. 
Drafty has accepted, that the facility had become unsustainable for Ms H by 
September 2019. So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may 
or may not have taken had it stepped in at this time to provide assistance. There were a 
number of options which Drafty could have taken. But seeing as none of these were taken 
and Im satisfied that action ought to have been taken  as it agrees. Ive considered what 
Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right sometime after the event. And the 
proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing this.
In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become demonstrably 
unsustainable (in light of Mis Hs usage and credit file)  instead I think its fair and 
reasonable to expect a lender to help the customer repay what theyve already drawn down 
and what they already owe. I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged 
on Ms Hs balance, in circumstances where this increased the chances of her being unable 
to repay what she owed is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately lent and 
appeared affordable for Ms H at the time, once the point had been reached where Drafty 
accepted the facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised forbearance to allow 
Ms H to repay what she owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my view, fair and 
reasonable for Drafty to have continued charging interest on this balance from 
18 September 2019 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that the 
whole facility was unsustainable by 18 September 2019, it therefore follows that it isnt just 
the new drawdowns that Ms H couldnt afford. She also couldnt afford to repay what she 
already owed  so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further 
drawdowns needs to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. 
Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended and why, Ive outlined below what 
Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for Ms H. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Refund all interest, fees and charges that Ms H paid from 18 September 2019;
Then refund any interest fees and charges from the above date and then add 8% 
simple interest a year from the date of the payment to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about the facility from Ms Hs credit file from 
18 September 2019  as Drafty has already agreed to do. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Ms H as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman