DRN-3098164
The complaint
Mr T complains that the Scottish Building Society closed his account, and about related 
issues.
What happened
Mr T had an instant access saver account with the Scottish Building Society (SBS). His late 
mother also had an account there, and when she passed away Mr T, as the executor of her 
will, was responsible for closing her account and the administration of her estate. Mr T was 
dissatisfied with how the building societys service in relation to that, and although that is not 
the subject of this complaint, it is relevant to mention that Mr T complained about those 
issues, first to the building society and then to our service. Separately, he also complained 
about how much SBS pays its directors.
Mr T received two final response letters from SBS, both rejecting his complaints, and telling 
him that he could refer his complaints to our service if he wished. Mr T continued to 
correspond with SBS, and in June 2020 SBS wrote to him again and told him that it 
considered that its relationship with him had broken down, and that it had decided to close 
his account in July. It also told him that no further correspondence would be entered into. 
Mr T complained about the decision to close his account, and that complaint (the third) is the 
matter I am dealing with in this complaint.
Mr T says that his account was closed contrary to a clause in SBSs terms and conditions 
which says that an account will never be closed as a response to a valid complaint made by 
the account holder. He wants his account to be re-opened.
Although the crux of this complaint is the decision to close Mr Ts account, Mr T has also 
complained about some related matters. The letter informing him of the account closure was 
sent to him at his mothers address instead of his own address, even though it had nothing 
to do with his mothers account or her estate. No closing statement was sent to him. 
Although SBS had told him that his account would be closed in July, this was not done until 
August, when it sent him a cheque for the closing balance (to the correct address). Mr T had 
returned the cheque, and so SBS had transferred the closing balance his bank account with 
a third party, and he objected to that, since that account was only meant to be used in 
connection with his mothers estate. SBS never sent him a final response to his third 
complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that SBS had closed Mr Ts account 
in line with its terms and conditions, and had given him more notice than the terms required. 
He did not think that this had been done as a result of a complaint made by Mr T in his 
capacity as the holder of his own account. Although the account had been closed later than 
SBS had said it would be, interest had continued to be earned in the meantime, and the 
delay had not prejudiced Mr T. Mr T did not accept that opinion. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that SBS closed the account as a response to Mr Ts first two complaints. SBSs 
response to those complaints was to consider them, and then to send him two final response 
letters setting out its reasons for rejecting them. SBS did not, at that point, decide to close 
Mr Ts account. Instead, that decision came later on, in response to Mr T continuing to 
correspond about those two complaints, which SBS considered to be closed, subject to 
Mr Ts right to refer those complaints to our service, which he had not yet done.
The terms and conditions say that SBS can close an account provided that it gives at least 
30 days notice. This was done. Although the letter telling Mr T that his account was going to 
be closed was sent to his mothers address  and I accept that this was technically an error 
by SBS, because that address was not strictly connected to the account which was being 
closed  I think that was a harmless error, because Mr T still received the letter and it was 
not intercepted by a third party.
So I am satisfied that the account was closed properly, that effective notice was given, and 
that the reason SBS gave Mr T for doing so was not a reason prohibited by its terms and 
conditions.
I agree with Mr T that a closing statement should have been sent to him. I have asked SBS 
to send him one, and SBS has agreed to do that. I think that should be enough to resolve 
that issue, since its not serious enough to warrant the payment of compensation.
Although the account was closed a few days later than the date which had been notified to 
Mr T, I dont think that matters, since he hadnt wanted his account to be closed at all, and it 
meant that he had the account for a little longer. The delay caused no financial loss to him. 
He has told us that it made him anxious about what had happened to his money, but since 
that was only £105, and his response to receiving the cheque was to send it back, I dont 
think the level of anxiety could have been very high.
Since Mr T returned the cheque, and SBS still had a duty to send him his closing balance, 
I think that sending it to his bank account was a reasonable alternative method of payment, 
despite the basis of Mr Ts objection to that.
SBS certainly should have sent Mr T a third final response letter in response to his complaint 
about the account closure. The two final responses it had already sent did not deal with this 
complaint, since they were both sent before SBS decided to close his account. That was an 
error, but not one with serious consequences, and so I do not think it is worth the payment of 
compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021. But we will not engage in any further 
discussion about the merits of this complaint. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman