DRN-4170413
The complaint
Mr B isnt happy with the way Sainsburys Bank Plc operates his variable rate cash ISA 
account. 
What happened
Mr B has a variable rate cash ISA with Sainsburys. He noticed that Sainsburys was offering 
a higher interest rate for similar accounts on its website and asked what he needed to do to 
benefit from that rate. Sainsburys said it offered higher rates to attract new customers and 
existing customers could ask to have their rate increased if they contacted Sainsburys by 
phone or secure message. It increased the interest rate on Mr Bs account, backdated to the 
date of his message. 
Mr B complained that Sainsburys wasnt applying increases in interest rates automatically. 
He thought that was unfair. He noted it had automatically applied increases and decreases 
in the past, which he believed created an expectation that increases would be applied 
automatically. Sainsburys didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it wasnt its policy to advise 
existing customers of interest rates it was offering to attract new customers. It said the terms 
and conditions of the account said that Sainsburys dont automatically increase interest 
rates when new rates become available. And all rates are advertised on its website.
Mr B wasnt happy with this response. He thought Sainsburys should do more to explain 
that it was the responsibility of its customers to monitor its website and apply for a better 
rate. So, he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Sainsburys needed to do anything more. They noted that the 
terms and conditions of Mr Bs account said it wouldnt automatically change the interest rate 
on his account to match any different rates offered to new customers. And Mr B could take 
advantage of any higher interest rates advertised on Sainsburys website by asking it to 
apply the new rate to his account. They were satisfied that Sainsburys operated Mr Bs 
account in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
Ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys was advertising a higher interest rate on an account that was the same as 
Mr Bs  a variable cash ISA  but didnt apply that rate to his account or notify him that he 
could ask for it to be applied. So, I can understand why Mr B feels hes been treated unfairly. 
But, but based on the information Ive seen, I dont think he has been. Let me explain why.
Sainsburys offers different interest rates for newer issues of the account. And I dont think 
that, in itself, unreasonable. This is common practice across the industry so that businesses 
can attract new customers. 
Mr Bs cash ISA pays a variable rate of interest which means it can go up or down. The 
terms and conditions of his account say that Sainsburys might offer different rates for new 
accounts. And the interest rate of the existing account wont automatically change to match 
the new rates. 
So, Im satisfied Sainsburys has let him know that rates wont always increase 
automatically. While Sainsburys will sometimes increase rates automatically for its 
customers, thats a commercial decision for it to take. It also notifies customers if theres a 
decrease in the interest rate so they can decide if they want to find a better rate elsewhere. 
So, I dont think Sainsburys has acted unfairly by not automatically increasing the interest 
rate on Mr Bs cash ISA account to the level its paying new customers. But what of Mr Bs 
concern that Sainsburys is disadvantaging its customers by not explicitly telling them what 
they need to do to apply for an increase in the interest rate on their account. And expecting 
them to constantly monitor Sainsburys website for interest rate increases and then ask for 
these to be applied?
On balance, I dont think its treated him unfairly. Sainsburys wasnt hiding the interest rates 
it was offering new customers as they were available on its website and in other media. And 
I dont think it was unfair of Sainsburys not to let Mr B know directly, as an existing 
customer, about the newer issues of the account. 
Mr B was able to call Sainsburys and increase the rate on his account. Sainsburys has said 
he could also apply online for the new issue, although I recognise theres much more 
administration needed to do this. Sainsburys has explained that Mr B would need to open a 
new account, with a new account number, and transfer his ISA. This would also mean hed 
need to complete a form to ensure hes transferring the right subscriptions for the right years.
The alternative option was to call Sainsburys and it would simply change Mr Bs existing 
issue of the variable rate ISA to the newest one, with the accompanying rate. This seems a 
fair thing to do, and good customer service, saving Mr B time.
Im satisfied Mr B was proactively looking for better rates on his savings. Having done this, 
he found Sainsburys was offering better rates for newer issues of his account. I dont think 
Sainsburys was hiding these higher rates and they were available to him.
I dont think Sainsburys acted unfairly by not automatically converting Mr Bs account to the 
newer issue, in the same way as I wouldnt expect it to automatically transfer his account to 
a newer type of account simply because the rate is higher.
Once Mr B requested the newer issue of his account, Im satisfied Sainsburys did this 
promptly and the interest rate on his account was increased from the date he contacted 
Sainsburys.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Richard WalkerOmbudsman