DRN-2348917
The complaint
Mr D says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly. He said if proper checks had been made before lending then Satsuma 
wouldnt have approved the loans as he had a significant amount of other payday lending at 
the time. The Satsuma loans caused him financial difficulty.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr D between 
February and August 2017.
loan date taken amountmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 01/02/2017 £300 6 03/05/2017
2 03/05/2017 £1,000 12 outstanding
3 02/08/2017 £300 12 01/11/2017
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
He said that Satsuma would have had enough information to say it shouldnt have approved 
the loans. And so it shouldnt have lent to him. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
For loan 1 Mr D needed to repay just under £100 a month for the following six months. Over 
the next two loans the amount he would repay each month approximately doubled. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr D provided when he completed his loan applications. 
Mr D said he had a monthly income of £1,800 and he had regular monthly outgoings of 
£1,200 (on average). So it was reasonable for Satsuma to have thought that Mr D could 
afford the repayments to the loans. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr D mightve been having. So there isnt anything that wouldve 
prompted Satsuma to investigate his circumstances further. I think it was reasonable for 
Satsuma to rely on the information it obtained in the early part of the lending relationship.
I agree that by loan 2, given the large increase in the amount Mr D borrowed and that loan 1 
was still outstanding when it was started, Satsuma should have been doing more to make 
sure that Mr D could repay any further lending sustainably. 
But the information both Mr D and Satsuma have provided doesnt show he had significant 
amounts of other short term lending, or other financial problems. So it still wouldve been 
reasonable to for Satsuma to think Mr D could afford the loan repayments if it had made 
further checks. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think Satsumas decisions to lend for loans 1 to 3 were 
reasonable and Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman