DRN-2875661
The complaint
Miss T complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) have 
applied excessive charges and interest on her credit card account. She also says they have 
failed to make contact with her to discuss her debt.    
What happened
Miss T was accepted for a credit card by Tesco Bank in October 2014. Over the course of 
the next three years, Tesco Bank charged Miss T an over limit fee on seven occasions and, 
later, a late payment fee on one occasion. Miss T complained to Tesco Bank as she felt the 
charges were excessive and Tesco Bank hadnt complied with their regulatory duty to give 
her prior notification of the date the charges would be applied to her account. And, they 
didnt contact her about her persistent debt.  
Tesco Bank responded and explained all charges applied to Miss Ts credit card account 
were done so in line with the terms and conditions. They said, as part of Miss Ts Credit 
Card Agreement, they informed her if she spends over her credit limit then they'll charge her 
a £12.00 over limit fee and she would be asked to pay back all amounts over the limit. They 
said this information is also included on the reverse of every monthly statement which is 
available online. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss T. He thought Tesco Bank had acted fairly and 
didnt uphold the complaint. Miss T disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss T will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Unfair charges and fees
Miss T says, on all occasions Tesco Bank applied an over-limit fee, it was because the 
application of interest to the account had taken her over the credit limit rather than any over 
spending by Miss T. Miss T says Tesco Bank had simultaneously and electronically applied 
the over limit fee immediately after the interest had been added to her account  even 
though it was the interest that led to the balance going over the credit limit. 
Miss T says all of her credit card statements failed to include within the minimum payment 
notices any default charges such as over limit fees or late payment fees. She said this meant 
Tesco Bank had failed to meet their regulatory duty of care by providing her with the required 
pre-notification of default charges to be applied to her account so that she could have a 
reasonable opportunity to take steps to ensure sufficient funds were available in her account 
to cover the interest and default charges. Miss T says the credit card statements only gave 
notice of an estimated amount of interest to be applied to her account rather than an actual 
figure for the calculation of interest. I can see Miss T feels Tesco Bank are therefore in 
breach of paragraph 160 of the Lending Code. 
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Miss Ts account. Under the heading 
Managing your credit limit, it says, You must not go over your credit limit and, if you do, 
well charge a fee each time. This will appear on your monthly statement. And, under a 
section headed How we work it out, it says, To work out whether youre over your limit, 
well take into account all transactions youve made, and any interest and charges that have 
been added to your account. The terms and conditions say Tesco Bank will also charge a 
fee if Miss T misses a payment. 
The Credit Card Agreement signed by Miss T sets out the fees and charges and says Miss T 
will be charged £12 if she goes over her credit limit or doesnt make her minimum payment 
on time. It also describes how Tesco Bank calculate the interest. It says Tesco Bank 
calculate interest from the date the transaction or fee is charged to a customers account. It 
says, starting from a customers actual balance each day, they work out the average daily 
balance and multiply this by the daily interest rate. They then multiply this daily interest 
amount by the number of days in the month. Tesco Bank say they do this for each type of 
transaction and then add these together which equals the total interest for that month.  
The Credit Card Agreement then goes on further to say:
Your minimum payment will be the greater of:
the total of all interest and default fees charged on your statement plus 1% of the 
new balance shown on your statement (excluding 'Tesco Buy Now Pay Later' special 
offers) plus any arrears carried over from your previous statement; or
£25 plus any existing arrears carried over from your previous statement; or
the amount you owe over your credit limit which includes any over limit fees.
Ive looked at the seven instances where Miss T is charged an over limit fee and her 
statements show she has exceeded her credit limit. So, I dont think its unreasonable for 
Tesco Bank to charge an over limit fee as the terms and conditions allow them to take these 
steps. That said, I understand Miss T is concerned that Tesco Bank have breached the 
Lending Code so Ive looked into this further. 
The Lending Standards Board (LSB) Lending Code was published in March 2011 and 
revised in September 2015. Amongst other things, the Lending Code covers good practice in 
relation to credit cards. Miss T quotes paragraph 160, which says: 
Subscribers should ensure that for customers entering a new credit agreement on or after 
31 March 2011 that the calculated minimum payment will always cover at least:
1% of the principal owing;
the amount of interest that appears on the statement;
default fees/charges; and
annual fees that may be levied (whether as a single sum, twelve equal instalments or 
other method).
The principal owing means the outstanding balance shown on the statement less the 
current months interest and fees. Fees do not include fees for services such as balance 
transfers or cash advances.The way in which the Lending Code requires a business to calculate a minimum payment is 
broadly in line with how the Credit Card Agreement says Tesco Bank will calculate it. I note 
Miss T says Tesco Bank have breached the Lending Code, and acted unfairly, because it 
was the interest which caused her account to go over the credit limit. On the occasions   
Miss T is charged an over limit fee, Ive looked at the statement for the month before to see 
how the minimum payment has been calculated. And, I cant see Tesco Bank have acted 
unfairly here as the minimum payment has been calculated in line with the agreement signed 
by Miss T and in line with the Lending Code.
 
For example, the statement for December 2015 shows Miss Ts credit limit as £1,500 and 
her balance as £1,430.51 with the minimum payment as £41.50. When calculating 1% of the 
balance and adding this to the interest and any default fees, this does broadly arrive at the 
minimum payment figure calculated by Tesco Bank. The January 2016 statement shows 
Miss T makes a payment of £41.50 but her balance now is £1,535.45. But since the 
December 2015 statement, Miss T has spent £116.11 on her account excluding the interest 
applied on her January 2016 statement. From the balance of £1,535.45, if I deduct the 
interest and over limit fee applied in January 2016, then this gives a balance of £1,495.12. 
So, I do understand Miss Ts point that the interest leads to the credit limit being exceeded. 
But, thats the way in which a credit card account works. A lender will apply the interest at 
the end of the billing period and add that to the existing balance. I agree that might cause the 
balance to then exceed the credit limit  as in this case  but the terms and conditions make 
it clear that the balance on the monthly statements include the interest which has been 
applied. Adding the interest at the end of the billing period to the principal amount owing is 
neither an uncommon or unfair practice. 
I note Miss T says the minimum payment notices in her statements didnt include the default 
charges. Ive looked at the statements where Miss T has been charged an over limit fee and 
I can see the fee has been included in the minimum payment due. For example, in the 
October 2016 statement, the balance is £1,763.77 and minimum payment due is £61.03. 
This figure is made up of 1% of the balance and the interest and £12 over limit fee. Miss T 
refers to pre-notification, and I think shes saying Tesco Bank shouldve given her advance 
notice of the default charges that would be applied to her account to give her an opportunity 
to make any additional payments. I cant see how Tesco Bank wouldve been able to give 
advance notice as it was often the case that the application of the interest led to the account 
going over the credit limit. And, given that the interest was calculated at the end of the billing 
period  and when Miss Ts statement was due  the earliest opportunity Tesco Bank have 
to inform Miss T about her exceeding her credit limit is the next statement  and that is when 
Tesco Bank inform Miss T. In addition to this, each of Miss Ts statements do set out details 
of what the over limit fee is. 
         
I understand Miss Ts point about her statements showing an estimate of the interest to be 
applied the following month but I cant say Tesco Bank have acted unreasonably here. While 
Miss Ts account provides an interest free period for purchases, theres no interest free 
period for transactions such as cash advances or money transfers. So, Tesco Bank wont 
know the month before whether, the following month, Miss T will make any of these 
transactions and which would attract interest on the next statement. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Tesco Bank to provide an estimate. I will add, the estimate Tesco Bank 
provide is generally very close to the actual interest. For example, in the December 2015 
statement, the estimated interest is £28.31 and the actual interest the following month is 
£28.33. And, in the January 2016 statement, the estimated interest is £29.91 and the actual 
interest the following month is £30.51.
Miss T says Tesco Bank should have a process in place which prevents a customer from 
going over their credit limit by declining transactions which might cause this. Tesco Bank say 
this is sometimes not within their control and some merchants have a floor limit up to a set 
amount. This means transactions can be authorised while a customer is close to or over their credit limit. In addition to this, I cant see the terms and conditions say Tesco Bank will 
automatically decline any transactions which might cause Miss T to go over her credit limit. 
By sending monthly statements, I think a lender helps a customer to keep track of their 
spending and allows them to monitor their account when they are approaching their credit 
limit.   
 
Miss T is also concerned about a late payment fee she has been charged. Ive looked at 
Miss Ts January 2020 statement and this shows her minimum payment is due by 10 
February. Miss Ts February statement shows she makes a payment on 11 February. I 
acknowledge this is one day late but the terms and conditions do make it clear Tesco Bank 
will charge a late payment fee of £12 if they dont receive the minimum payment by the due 
date. So, I cant say they have acted unfairly here.  
Taking this all into account, I dont think Tesco Bank have acted unfairly in relation to the 
default charges. I believe Tesco Bank have acted in line with the terms and conditions in 
applying the default charges, so I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Persistent debt
Miss T says, during the period the default charges and interest were applied to her account 
between 2014 to 2017, she was carrying out contract work so wasnt working all months of 
the year. Sometimes there was a gap of six months out of work. She says this impacted on 
her income during this three-year period so she was only able to service her account by 
making the minimum payment. She says, despite the fact she was only making the minimum 
payment for most of the time she held the credit card account, Tesco Bank made no attempt 
to send any separate advice communication regarding her persistent debt and to consider 
whether she could benefit from cheaper lending facilities during the time she wasnt 
employed. She says this meant she paid back more in accumulated interest and charges 
than she would otherwise have done. 
Miss T says the onus is on lenders to make formal contact with a customer regarding their 
persistent debt  and by failing to do so, Tesco Bank are in breach of paragraph 161 of The 
Lending Code. I can see this paragraph says, Subscribers must follow the industry 
agreement developed by The UK Cards Association on the sending of a separate advice 
communication where a customer, without good reason, has made frequent minimum 
repayments or low repayments. 
      
In March 2018, the Financial Conduct Authority issued new rules and guidance about 
persistent debt. These rules mean that businesses have an obligation to identify where a 
customer has paid more towards interest and charges than towards clearing the capital 
balance of any borrowing. Under the guidelines, if a customers account meets the definition 
of persistent debt over an 18 month period, then the business is required to send out a 
series of correspondence informing customers of the steps they can take so as to no longer 
be considered as being in persistent debt, as well as advising the customer of the actions 
that the business may need to take if that customers account remains in persistent debt. 
Miss T says Tesco Bank failed to contact her about her persistent debt from 2014 to 2017. 
Tesco Bank say they didnt have any obligation to follow the persistent debt guidance 
between 2014 and 2017 as it wasnt yet in force. While I do agree with this, I believe Tesco 
Bank still had an obligation to ensure Miss T was managing her account without difficulties. 
While there are eight occasions when Miss T is charged a default fee, generally, I think she 
managed her account well between this three-year period. During this time, Miss T always 
makes her payment by the due date and theres a number of occasions where she makes a 
payment higher than the minimum payment due. For example, from January to April 2016, 
Miss T makes payments in excess of the minimum payments due  and in some cases its more than double the amount due. Theres further instances in 2016 of Miss T making 
payments higher than the minimum payment due and in early 2017 Miss T clears her 
balance with a payment of £1,724.93. And, thereafter Miss T is making significant payments 
while shes spending on her account to keep a low balance. So, given how Miss T was 
managing her account, I cant say there was evidence which shouldve alerted Tesco Bank 
to any financial difficulties. 
Miss T refers to a recent FCA decision concerning another lender and a fine imposed by the 
regulator for the lenders failure in their treatment of customers who fell into arrears or 
experienced financial difficulties. Miss T feels the circumstances here are similar. I do 
acknowledge Miss Ts point here but, just because a fine has been imposed on another 
lender, that doesnt mean Miss T has been treated unfairly by Tesco Bank. Its important to 
look at the facts and circumstances of each case independently. And, taking into account all 
the information Ive seen, I cant say Tesco Banks actions have been unreasonable.    
Complaints handling 
Miss T says she complained to Tesco Bank by phone about default charges applied to her 
account. She says she specifically asked for the complaint handler to contact her to discuss 
her complaint. She says a complaints handler called her and left a voicemail asking Miss T 
to contact him if she wished to discuss her complaints. But, she then received a final 
response letter a few minutes later. Miss T says she then spoke with the complaints 
handlers manager but he wasnt prepared to consider her complaint in a fair manner. She 
says it was clear during this conversation that he hadnt prepared in advance and hadnt 
reviewed the default charges to consider whether they were appropriate. 
   
Complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in 
line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to 
look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we 
can take into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. 
In this case, I cant say the issues which Miss T raises about the complaints handling are an 
extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint 
handling part of the complaint.      
In summary, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint in this matter as I feel Tesco Bank have acted 
fairly and reasonably in applying the default charges. And, I cant say they have treated  
Miss T unfairly while she was managing her account between 2014 to 2017.    
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman