DRN-2360945
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited trading as Insure2Drive (Sabre) 
disposed of his car and declined his claim. Hes also unhappy with how Sabre handled the 
claim and communicated with him about the claim.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020. Heres what I said:
Mr S made a claim for malicious damage to his car, and for stolen personal effects. The 
incident happened between 30 and 31 October 2018.
Sabre wrote to Mr S on 31 October 2018 to say that the claim had been put on hold, and 
Mr S would need to meet with one of its agents. Mr S says he never got this letter. 
Sabres engineer inspected the car at the home address on 5 November 2018. The engineer 
said there was impact damage on the car, and this couldnt have been caused as a result of 
the incident now under review.
Mr S car had previously been deemed a total loss in 2017, and Sabre paid the claim and 
Mr S retained the car. The engineer noted that the damage from the previous claim mirrored 
most of the damage from the current one. But the engineer did confirm that there appeared 
to be additional damage too.
Considering the pre-accident value of the car, and the cost of any repairs, the engineer 
recommended the claim would be dealt with on a total loss basis. And they concluded the 
pre-accident value of the car to be £500. So, with a total excess of £400 for malicious 
damage on the policy, the settlement would be £100 for the car.
Sabre wrote to Mr S on 7 November 2018 to say that his car had been damaged beyond 
economical repair, and it would dispose of it in 10 days  unless Mr S got in touch to say he 
wanted to retain the car. Mr S says he never got this letter either. The car was sold off at an 
auction on 4 December 2018.
Since reporting the claim, the next time Mr S had contact with Sabre was on 20 November 
2018 when he got in touch with it to ask for an update  he asked for a replacement car, and 
if his car had been repaired.
During the email correspondence that followed, Sabre told Mr S about the letter it sent on 
31 October 2018 saying Mr S needs to meet with its agent, and Sabre sent him a copy. Mr S 
eventually met with Sabres agent  but this didnt take place until February 2019 as Mr S 
says he was away from the country.
Sabre says the delays in dealing with the claim were due to Mr S not being available for a 
face to face meeting, and it hadnt done anything outside of the policy terms and conditions. 
Sabre also declined Mr S claim. It said the car hadnt been repaired following a previous 
claim in 2017, so at this point the car only had salvage value.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said that Sabre had sent Mr S letters 
about next steps, and it wasnt aware at the time that Mr S was out of the country. And she 
didnt think Sabre had done anything wrong about the claim, considering the condition the 
car was in before the incident. The investigator also said Sabre had responded to Mr S 
emails, and the delay was in Mr S arranging a meeting with Sabres agent. Overall, she 
didnt think Sabre had done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I dont think Sabre did everything right when it disposed of Mr S car. Its a general 
insurance principle that once a claim is settled, the vehicle becomes the insurers property. 
But before Sabre settled Mr S claim, the car was Mr S property. It wasnt for Sabre to 
dispose of it when it did  it didnt belong to Sabre. 
I know Sabre sent Mr S a letter of its intention to dispose of the car, and Mr S didnt get in 
touch with it to say he wanted to keep it. But Im also mindful that before the car was sold off 
at an auction on 4 December 2018, Sabre was aware already in November 2018 that Mr S 
hadnt got another letter sent to him. And I cant see that Sabre at this point told Mr S what 
was happening with his car or sent him a copy of this letter specifically.
I dont think Sabre acted fairly or reasonably when it disposed of Mr S car while the claim 
was still ongoing, and because it was made aware that Mr S hadnt been getting its letters. I 
also think that had Sabre done everything right, Mr S wouldve chosen to keep the car. Ill 
explain why.
The car was considered a total loss following a previous claim in 2017, and Mr S retained it. 
Hes also since explained that it was the family car, and he wouldve done anything to keep 
it. So, Im satisfied that had Mr S been given the option clearly, he wouldve chosen to keep 
the car.
Sabre has said that had it dealt with Mr S claim, it wouldve paid £100 for the vehicle after 
deducting the excess, and £100 for the personal effects. But if Mr S wouldve then continued 
with the claim and kept the car, Sabre couldve deducted the salvage value from the 
settlement. That wouldve meant Mr S wouldve kept the car, but Sabre wouldnt have had to 
pay him anything. Or Mr S couldve cancelled his claim and kept the car.
Overall, had Sabre been clear about the options available to Mr S, I dont think he wouldve 
continued with the claim  he wouldve simply kept his car. So, I think the financial loss Mr S 
has suffered here is the value of the car, £500. This is what Sabre should pay to Mr S. And I 
think Sabre should amend the claim record to show as notification only.
I know Mr S thinks the car was of a higher value. But I dont think the invoice hes sent 
shows that the car had had significant repairs following the incident in 2017. So, Im 
persuaded by engineer reports given by Sabre about the value of the car.But I also think Sabre caused Mr S unnecessary distress and inconvenience in disposing of 
his car in the way that it did. When considering the amount of compensation that would be 
fair and reasonable here, Ive taken into account the condition of the car and how much work 
was likely to be needed to make it roadworthy again. I think £100 is fair and reasonable 
here.
Mr S is also unhappy with Sabres communication with him, its insistence in arranging a face 
to face meeting, the delays this was causing, and that he was promised a courtesy car. But I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Sabre to want to meet with Mr S to discuss the claim. The 
terms of the policy entitle Sabre to conduct the settlement of any claim, and they require the 
policyholder to provide Sabre with all information and assistance necessary to investigate 
and settle claims made under the policy. 
Overall, I dont think Sabre did anything wrong in the way it communicated with Mr S, or how 
it dealt with the claim  other than what Ive already said above.
The policy also said  amongst other things  that a courtesy car would be provided if the 
claim was accepted and the car was repairable. But neither of these happened. So, I dont 
think Sabre did anything wrong when it didnt provide Mr S a courtesy car.
Sabre said it didnt actually get anything when it disposed of Mr S car, so it said the car had 
no value. But it agreed to proceed in line with my provisional decision.
Mr S wasnt happy with my decision  in particular with the compensation I said I intended to 
direct Sabre to pay him. He outlined the points he wanted me to consider again. In summary, 
he was still unhappy that:
Sabre hadnt provided a courtesy car despite saying itll offer one,
Sabres lack of clarity was stressful, and Sabre caused delays during the claim,
hed put in a lot of effort to maintain his car which I hadnt taken into account,
the car was taken away for repair and shouldnt have been disposed of, and
hed spent a lot of time dealing with the matter so he should be paid more 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Sabre may not have got anything when it disposed of the car  but that doesnt 
mean the car had no value. When I reached my provisional findings, I did also consider 
everything Mr S had said about the value of the car  the invoice he sent us, as well as 
everything he said about taking care of his car.
But I find the engineer reports the most persuasive evidence here about the value of the car. 
These were done following a physical inspection of the car, and they included considering 
valuations for vehicles of the same type and age. The engineer reports also took into 
account the damage that existed on the car before this claim.
Taking everything into account, Im still persuaded that the value of the car was £500. So, for 
the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, this is the amount Sabre should pay Mr S 
for his financial loss. And Sabre should also amend the claim record to show notification only 
 again, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.Ive thought about everything Mr S has said about the amount of compensation I said I 
intended to direct Sabre to pay. But I already explained in my provisional decision why I 
didnt think Sabre did anything wrong in the way it communicated with Mr S, or how it dealt 
with the claim (other than disposing of the car). So, I dont think Sabre caused Mr S any 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience because of these issues. I know Mr S doesnt 
agree  but I havent been persuaded that Sabre did anything wrong here.
I also explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think Sabre did anything wrong when 
it didnt provide Mr S a courtesy car. I see no reason to change my findings on this.
So, when I said Sabre should pay Mr S compensation, this was for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by disposing of Mr S car. I see no reason to depart from the findings I 
reached on this, or the amount, in my provisional decision. I still think £100 is fair and 
reasonable, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
Overall, Ive reached the same findings I reached in my provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr S 
complaint in part. Sabre Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr S £500 to compensate 
him for the financial loss he suffered, and £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
him. It should also amend the claim record to show notification only.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman