DRN-1093962
 
The complaint
Mr B says that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a regular premium mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MMPPI) policy when he took out a mortgage in 2006. 
What happened
Mr B says that he was mis-sold MPPI by Santander when it arranged a mortgage for him in 
2006. The policy provided cover in the event he wasnt working due to accident or sickness 
only  there was no unemployment cover. The monthly cost of the policy was £24.16, and in 
the event of a successful claim, it wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £742 for up to 12 
months. The policy was cancelled in June 2007.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The MPPI was sold to Mr B during a meeting with Santander. I cant know what was said 
during that meeting, so Ive looked at the documentary evidence thats available from the 
time to help me decide whats likely to have happened. Ive also looked at Mr Bs 
recollections from 2006. The sale of the MPPI took place a long time ago and not all the 
documents and paperwork from the time are now available. Its also likely that, over the 
years, memories about details have faded. Ive borne in mind these difficulties with the 
evidence when considering this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint and Ill explain why.
 
I think Santander probably made Mr B aware that the MPPI was optional and that 
Mr B chose to take it. I say this because the mortgage offer has a specific section 
dedicated to insurance  section 9  and this says that you are not required to take 
any insurance out with Santander when taking out the mortgage.
 
Santander recommended the MPPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time. Being unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties  and Mr B was taking out this mortgage 
by himself. Mr B told us he had good employer sick pay. But this policy wouldve paid 
benefits at the same time as Mr B was receiving any sick pay, and possibly for 
longer. And his mortgage application paperwork suggests he had limited other 
means to meet financial commitments. So I think the MPPI wouldve been potentially useful to him. It would also have allowed him to use any savings he may have had for 
other pressing things.
 
Its possible Santander didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr B would have been affected by any of these  he told us he was 
employed and said he was in good health. Mr B told us hed had an operation some 
time before he purchased the PPI, and although we asked for further details about 
this from his representative, weve not been given any further information.
 
Santander still had to make sure that Mr B was given enough information about the 
MPPI so he could decide for himself whether it was right for him. That information 
had to be clear, fair and not misleading. Its possible that Santander didnt give Mr B 
all of the necessary information. But even if that were the case, I dont think more or 
better information would have made a difference to his decision to take MPPI. I say 
this because the policy was to cover his mortgage, which was obviously a significant 
financial commitment. And the policy was competitively priced compared to others 
that were available on the market at the time and I think Mr B would have benefitted 
from the cover. And as this was a regular premium policy it could be cancelled at any 
point without penalty of charge. So if Mr B decided he could no longer afford the 
MPPI, or that he no longer needed it, he couldve cancelled it. And I note he did this 
in June 2007.
 
Im satisfied this policy wasnt mis-sold and that Santander dont need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman