DRN-1888178
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs S says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2001 Mrs S took out PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card by online application.
The policy provided protection for Mrs S card payments in the event she couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy cost 59 pence for every £100 
Mrs S owed on the card and it would pay out for up to 12 months per claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs S was employed and she said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months full followed by six months half pay. She said she had no other means she couldve 
used to make her repayments and she was in good health at the time.
Barclays records show Mrs S PPI policy ended in 2002.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mrs S chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs S disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs S complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mrs S was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold her complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mrs S have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
Mrs S says she believes PPI was fraudulently added to her account. Ive therefore 
considered this matter carefully.
This was a sale by online application. Barclays doesnt have screenshots of Mrs S actual 
application. But it has provided example screenshots, which it says Mrs S wouldve seen 
when she applied for her card. Looking at these I can see that there was a separate section 
about PPI, which required the applicant to indicate whether they wanted PPI or not by 
selecting one of two radio buttons  Yes or No. Neither was pre-ticked, and Barclays says 
the application couldnt continue until the applicant had selected one of the options.
Barclays has provided a copy of the information recorded from Mrs S application in its 
internal records, and this shows a Y in the PPI application field.
So, taking everything into account including what Mrs S says happened, I think more likely 
than not Mrs S chose and agreed to take out PPI when it was presented to her in the online 
application by selecting the Yes option - even if she doesnt now remember doing so.
the information  
Barclays says it didnt advise Mrs S to take out PPI. And given this was an online application 
with no involvement from a Barclays representative, Im satisfied Barclays did not 
recommend the cover to Mrs S.
This means Barclays didnt have to ensure the cover was right or suitable for Mrs S. But it 
did have to give her enough clear and timely information to enable her to make that decision 
herself. Im not persuaded based on what Ive seen that Barclays did do that  for example I 
dont think the cost was made clear and neither were the significant limitations and 
exclusions sufficiently drawn to her Mrs S attention.
But as I found above, I think she likely chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those for existing medical conditions 
or unusual employment circumstances; and notwithstanding her existing means it seems like 
it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs S off taking out the 
cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S and her representative have said - including what 
theyve said about Mrs S sick pay and her excellent job security as well as what Mrs S has 
said about her not being able to afford to spend money on PPI at the time. But these points 
dont change my decision.
Ive acknowledged that Mrs S had what might reasonably be regarded as generous 
employee sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and for longer than Mrs 
S full sick-pay wouldve lasted  up to 12 months per claim if necessary.  
So, given Mrs S didnt have any other means to fall back on to make her payments  such 
as savings - I still think it wouldve been useful to her if things went wrong.
Mrs S might consider she had excellent job security at the time  but I think this can only 
truly be said with the benefit of hindsight. But in any event taking out an insurance policy is designed to offer protection in the event something unforeseen or unfortunate happening  
not in anticipation of it happening. 
Mrs S also says she couldnt afford to spend money on the PPI. But as I said above, I think 
Mrs S chose the cover, so she was clearly interested in what it could provide. Mrs S only 
paid for PPI when she had a balance outstanding  so when she had something to protect. 
And while I accept the full cost information wasnt clearly disclosed, given Mrs S 
circumstances at the time, Im not persuaded she wouldve acted differently and declined the 
cover had Barclays done anything more. I still think she had some good reasons to take out 
PPI.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided PPI wasnt mis-sold. So, Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Barclays does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman