DRN-4189681
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by 
increasing the limit on their overdraft. They say the account has been overdrawn for years 
and the charges applied have made it difficult to clear the debt. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a joint account with Lloyds with an overdraft limit of £1,000. This was 
increased to £2,000 in August 2017 and then reduced to £1,000 in October. Mr and Mrs H 
applied for a further overdraft limit increase to £1,500 in January 2022 and this was again 
reduced to £1,000 in November. 
Mrs H on behalf of herself and Mr H complained to Lloyds that it acted irresponsibly by 
increasing their overdraft limit despite declining her application to have the limit on her 
personal account increased and that there were signs which shouldve raised concerns 
about their financial position. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It says any applications within the last six years passed 
all the relevant credit checks at the time and were deemed to be affordable and approved. 
Mr and Mrs H were dis-satisfied with this and referred their complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint but didnt think there was 
anything to suggest Mr and Mrs H wouldnt be able to repay their overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time and thought that the credit checks Lloyds made when they applied 
to have their overdraft limit increased went far enough. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. Mrs H doesnt believe the account and the continuing affordability 
of the overdraft was reviewed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 12 May 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why 
I was proposing to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further submissions before I reached a final decision. Mr and Mrs H have confirmed they 
have received and accepted my provisional decision and Lloyds have come back and 
provided statements to Mr and Mrs Hs sole accounts in order to provide a fuller picture of 
their financial affairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
it needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr and Mrs H 
would be able to repay what they were being lent before providing any credit to them. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Mr and Mrs Hs overdraft is what we refer to as an open-ended credit facility. This means the 
checks Lloyds carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr 
and Mrs H would be able to repay their overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
In the six years before raising their complaint Lloyds approved overdraft limit increases of 
£1,000 to £2,000 in August 2017 and £1,000 to £1,500 in January 2022. The applications for 
the limit increases were made online. Lloyds says all applications were credit scored taking 
into account information Mr and Mrs H provided about their income and how they had 
managed their account with it, as well as information held by other lenders provided through 
credit reference checks. And based on this information Lloyds was satisfied their score was 
high enough to provide them with the overdraft facility they requested.
I accept that Mr and Mrs Hs financial position may well have been worse than the credit 
checks carried out showed or in any information they disclosed to Lloyds at the time. And it 
is possible that further checks might have told Lloyds this. But Lloyds was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. 
And having viewed Mr and Mrs Hs statements leading up to the first increase in August 
2017 I can see that although Mr and Mrs H did use their overdraft, they were regularly able 
to bring it right down with incoming credits and often saw and was able at times to maintain a 
credit balance. So I think for this limit increase Lloyds checks went far enough and I dont 
think Lloyds acted unfairly in agreeing to increase their limit. 
That said, even though this increase in limit wasnt provided irresponsibly, Lloyds still wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs H if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to their account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware they were experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr and Mrs H fairly and 
reasonably.
And I think by the renewal date shown on their bank statements of April 2021 and before 
they had their last limit increase approved in January 2022, there was evidence they were in 
financial difficulty. Mr and Mrs Hs statements showed that from around August 2020 they 
were no longer able to maintain a credit balance. And from this point spent the majority of 
time overdrawn and more time near or at the top of their limit.  
Lloyds own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. Mr and Mrs Hs statements show they were clearly 
struggling to manage their overdraft limit with Lloyds, there was little money coming in and 
when it did come in it went straight out again to pay for bills and other day to day living costs 
or to service other accounts.  
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
And having carefully considered everything provided, Im currently intending to find that 
Lloyds acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 
the renewal date of 30 April 2021. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr and Mrs 
H were in no position to sustainably repay what they owed within a reasonable period of 
time. So I think that Mr and Mrs Hs overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have 
realised that Mr and Mrs H werent using they overdraft as intended and shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr and Mrs Hs overdraft 
usage and instead allowed them to eventually increase their limit to £1,500, while continuing 
to charge in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Mr and Mrs H ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating difficulties they already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Lloyds didnt treat Mr and Mrs H fairly and they lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong.
Lloyds have now provided copies of Mr and Mrs Hs sole account bank statements and say 
that both of these accounts received credit transfers into them and that Mr and Mrs Hs joint 
income exceeded their overdraft limit. 
But having looked at these statements for the period in question I dont think this changes 
the overall outcome. Although both the sole accounts had credits coming into them, neither 
account had enough money to repay the overdraft on their joint account. Indeed, Mrs Hs 
sole account was often overdrawn and Mr Hs account had an average balance of around 
£200 for the period leading up to the review of the overdraft on their joint account in April 
2021.
And just because they at times might have had a joint income which exceeded their 
overdraft limit that doesnt mean the overdraft was affordable considering their outgoings 
and monthly commitments. I accept at times the joint account did see a credit balance. But 
this was never for long and leading up to the review date the account was becoming further 
overdrawn to the top of its limit, and for longer. So its on this basis I am upholding Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 30 April 2021 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr and Mrs H to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr and 
Mrs Hs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 30 April 2021.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Mrs H along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Lloyds should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Hs 
credit file.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC 
and direct it pay the fair compensations as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman