DRN-1465285
 
The complaint
Mrs A says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs A took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 2002 and at the same time took out a PPI policy. 
The policy covered her mortgage payments if Mrs A was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost her job for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs A made it clear 
in the mortgage application she wanted the policy and it wouldve suited her needs at the 
time. 
Mrs A disagrees, she says she didnt need the policy. 
So her complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting with a sales adviser. Lloyds had to make it clear the 
PPI was optional and not a condition of the lending. Mrs A says this wasnt done but hasnt 
given us much detail about what was said during the meeting to make her think this. But I 
think thats understandable as the PPI was sold over 15 years ago. So Ive relied more on 
what the documents from the sale show.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs As mortgage application form. Within the application form theres a 
separate section that deals with PPI. It gives the option to either select to take PPI or decline 
it with a tick box next to both options. I can see that initially Mrs A ticked not to take PPI then 
crossed this out and a tick has been placed in the box to select PPI and Mrs A has initialled 
to confirm her selection.
I can see also that Mrs A then went on to complete and sign an entirely separate application 
form for PPI. So I think Mrs A wouldve understood she didnt have to take PPI to get the 
mortgage as she couldve selected no to PPI and I think she completed the application for 
PPI because she wanted the cover.
Lloyds advised Mrs A to take the policy. What this means is that Lloyds not only had to 
provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mrs A could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for her needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs A for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mrs A says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and 
had savings she could use to make her repayments if she couldnt work. But a 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and covered her for up 
to 12 months if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness, or if she lost her 
job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs A in her circumstances 
especially considering she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think 
she wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs A at the time. 
And if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mrs A information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information as it shouldve. But for 
the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs A has told us about 
her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the policy if shed been 
given all the proper information.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs As complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman