The complaint
Mr T complains about the poor service provided by National Westminster Bank Plc when he 
called them on two occasions for help to set up his new current account. 
NatWest accepted the service it had provided was unacceptable and apologised for the 
trouble caused. Mr T isnt happy with the amount of compensation offered. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes recordings of the two telephone calls Mr T made to NatWest at the end of 
March 2020. 
Having carefully considered the evidence, I agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator for the following reasons:
Mr T had set up a pin number for his online banking and I think it was reasonable for
NatWest to use that as part of its security procedures to confirm his identity.
Mr T failed to provide the correct pin number. NatWest explored other ways of
confirming his identity but they werent successful. As such, I think it was reasonable
for NatWest to say it couldnt help him further.
The first call handler suggested Mr T could go into his local branch to sort things out.
I agree that such a suggestion, by itself, would have been insensitive in light of the
coronavirus pandemic. But the call handler also said Mr T could write to the branch if
he didnt want to go in. I dont think that was unreasonable in the circumstances.
The first call handler didnt suggest any alternative method for Mr T to make a
complaint when they said he couldnt speak to a manager. They could have offered
to send a complaint form by email, which is what the second call handler offered to
do.
Having listened to both calls, I think the first call could have been handled better and
that might have prevented the subsequent breakdown in communication.
And I think the poor handling of the first call contributed to the breakdown in
communication in the second call.
As a result of the poor service Mr T received from NatWest, he was without online
and telephone banking for two days. But he had other ways of accessing funds in his
account and I havent seen any evidence to show he lost out financially because he
didnt have access to online and telephone banking for that period.
NatWest offered £30 to apologise for its poor service, which it agreed had been
unacceptable.
DRN-1872780In light of the above, I think it was right that NatWest apologised for the service it provided 
and for the inconvenience it caused. And taking everything into account, I think £30 
compensation is fair. I know Mr T feels it doesnt fully reflect the impact on him and I agree 
with him that the service could have been better. But I think the amount NatWest has paid 
him is fair in the circumstances and I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already paid £30 to settle the complaint and I think this 
amount is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16July2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman