DRN-3438865
The complaint
Mr Y complains that the compensation Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited 
(AA) has paid him for the distress and inconvenience it caused him following the mis-sale of 
a breakdown repair insurance policy isnt fair.
What happened
Mr Y, whos had breakdown repair cover with AA for many years, called AA in October 2019 
to see if he could add another car to his existing policy. He was told he couldnt and would 
need to take out a second policy, which he did.
Two years later, in October 2021, when reading the renewal documents for the second 
policy, Mr Y noticed it was possible to have a multi-car breakdown repair policy. So Mr Y 
complained to AA that hed been mis-sold the second policy.
AA agreed Mr Y had been given incorrect information in 2019 about multi-car policies and 
had been mis-sold the second policy. It agreed to refund all the premiums for this policy and 
paid Mr Y £25 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
When AA refunded Mr Y his premiums, it didnt send him the correct amount and Mr Y had 
to contact AA around three times before he was given the refund he was due. As an apology 
for the distress and inconvenience this caused Mr Y, AA paid him another £50 in 
compensation.
Unhappy with the amount of compensation AA has paid him, Mr Y brought his complaint to 
us. The investigator who looked at Mr Ys complaint didnt think AA needed to do anything 
more. He thought AAs initial offer of £25 compensation was fair, in particular bearing in mind 
Mr Y had the benefit of cover from the second policy. And he thought AAs further offer of 
£25 reflected the frustration and time Mr Y had to spend getting AA to give him the correct 
refund.
Mr Y disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
AA has accepted Mr Y was given incorrect information and was mis-sold the second policy. 
When a business makes mistakes, we expect it to put its customer back in the financial 
position he or she wouldve been in had the mistakes not been made. By refunding Mr Y his 
premiums for the second policy for the time he held it, AA has done that.
But AAs mistakes have also had an emotional and practical impact on Mr Y. They have 
clearly caused him distress and inconvenience. I can understand how annoying it mustve 
been for Mr Y to find out  two years down the line  that a policy hed wanted to upgrade to 
a multi-car policy couldve been upgraded sooner if AA had given him the correct 
information. And, from what Mr Y says, he asked AA more than once about upgrading and 
was given the same (incorrect) information. 
I can also understand how annoying and time-consuming it was for Mr Y to have to contact 
AA a number of times about the calculation of his refund. 
But, in thinking about fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
AA caused Mr Y, I have to consider that his second car did have breakdown cover place  
so he did have cover if hed needed it. And if Mr Y had got the multi-car policy he wanted, he 
wouldve had to pay another (smaller) premium to have the second car added. Also I 
understand that, when AA refunded Mr Y his premiums for the second policy, it didnt deduct 
that smaller premium from the refund. So AA put Mr Y back into a slightly better financial 
position than he wouldve been in had he got the policy he wanted at the outset. And, 
although it took a few weeks to sort out Mr Ys refund, AA did put this right for him in the end. 
So, taking into account all the facts and circumstances here, I think the compensation of £50 
that AA has paid Mr Y in total is fair and reasonable.
Finally, Mr Y has made the point that it was him  and not AA  who spotted its mistakes, 
both with the policy sale and with the refund calculations. In relation to the policy sale, for 
example, he says that, had he not read the small print, he couldve been paying hundreds of 
pounds more than he needed to over many years to get the cover he wanted. And if he 
hadnt looked at AAs refund calculations carefully, he couldve suffered a shortfall.
But, when we decide complaints and award compensation for a businesss mistakes, we can 
do so only on the basis of what actually happened  not what couldve happened. Nor can 
we punish a busines when its mistakes are identified by its customer, not itself. So the points 
Mr Y has made here dont change my findings on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman