DRN-3999281
The complaint
Mr W complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of his motor insurance claim.
AXA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As AXA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to AXA includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr Ws car was damaged in an accident involving another driver.
 
In December 2021, Mr Ws brokers asked AXA to consider his claim. AXA says it had to 
make some significant investigations with regard to modifications to the vehicle which hadnt 
been disclosed to it previously.
 
AXA arranged for the vehicle to be taken to a garage for repairs but deemed it uneconomical 
to repair. It offered Mr W a cash settlement of £12,164 or £7,298.40 if he wanted to keep the 
vehicle. Mr W wanted to keep the vehicle, so AXA paid him the £7,298.40 and arranged for 
his vehicle to be returned to him.
However, when the vehicle was delivered back to Mr W, he found that a number of parts had 
been removed from it. Mr W refused to accept the vehicle and it was returned to AXAs 
agents.
Mr W raised two complaints with AXA. The first was about delays in progressing his claim 
and the second was to do with the damage to his vehicle whilst it had been in the care of the 
garage.
AXA said it had taken some time to resolve the issue regarding modifications to Mr Ws 
vehicle. It said the type of vehicle presented further problems in determining whether it was 
repairable or uneconomical to repair. AXA acknowledged a delay in reaching a decision to 
deal with the claim on a total loss basis and offered Mr W £350 to compensate him for this.
AXA said the repairer had advised that the parts that had been taken from Mr Ws vehicle 
whilst in its possession had been recovered. The repairer was willing to return these to Mr W 
but were unable to fit these back on the vehicle due to the availability of other parts from the 
manufacturer. AXA offered Mr W a further £500 to compensate him for the problems this had 
caused him.
Mr W remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She thought the cash settlement options 
AXA had given Mr W were fair and the £850 AXA had paid Mr W was enough to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said hed declared modifications to his 
car when he first took out the policy. Other modifications were done while it was sitting on his 
driveway after the accident. He said AXA told him it would pay less for his car. It was valued 
at £16,000 and it offered him £12,000 less the extra modifications.
Mr W said hed accepted £7,298 and the return of his car exactly how it had left him  not 
with the parts removed. It had come back to him completely ruined, with around £8/10,000 
parts cut out and stolen. It had also been damaged when it was put on and off the trailer. He 
questioned why AXA would have offered him £12,000 if his car was a total loss. 
Mr W also commented that he didnt think it was fair that he had to pay a full years 
insurance when hed been unable to drive the car through no fault of his own.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle a claim promptly and fairly.
AXA says it had to make some significant investigations with regard to modifications to      
Mr Ws vehicle. It says it also took some time to determine whether it was repairable, or it 
was deemed uneconomical to repair. However, its also acknowledged a delay in reaching 
the point of offering a settlement.
I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr W, who says he needed to make many phone calls 
before being offered the settlement. However, I can see that Mr W was provided with a hire 
car for around three months while AXA was looking into these matters.  And I think the £350 
AXA has paid Mr W fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a 
result of the delay.
From what I can see, AXAs agents (C) moved the vehicle from its storage facility to the 
garage for repairs. However, the garage wasnt able to carry out repairs due to difficulties in 
sourcing parts. So, AXA decided to deal with the claim as a total loss and offer Mr W a cash 
settlement.
The terms of the policy say: 
Where your car is not recovered following at theft or is beyond economical repair we will 
pay you the market value of your car, including accessories and spare parts at the time they 
are lost, stolen or damaged.
If we settle a claim as a total loss, we will then take ownership of your car.
Market value is defined as: The cost of replacing your car int the UK with one of the same 
make, model, specification, mileage, age and condition.
When the vehicle was returned from the garage to C, a number of parts had been removed. 
It was inspected by one of Cs engineers, who noted an internet valuation (using a trade 
guide) was £12,164. The engineer gave a suggested valuation of £6,750 with deductions for 
old damage and parts removed from the engine.AXA arranged for an independent engineer (from company H) to carry out an inspection of 
the vehicle a couple of days later. He valued the vehicle at £1,950.
Nevertheless, AXAs full settlement offer was for £12,164 and Mr W was given the option to 
keep the car, with a salvage deduction of £4,865.60. As Mr W chose to keep the car, AXA 
paid him £7,298.40.
When Mr W accepted this payment, he was expecting his vehicle to be returned to him in the 
condition it had left him. It was no doubt very upsetting to find it had been stripped of parts. 
However, AXA has offered to pay Mr W £4,865.60, which is the amount it took off his 
settlement for salvage. 
I appreciate that Mr W paid more than £12,164 for his vehicle. However, he is only entitled to 
the market value of the car, according to the terms of the policy. Our service hasnt been 
able to obtain a trade guide valuation due to the age of the vehicle. But Ive no reason to 
doubt the expertise of the engineer who valued it. So, I think AXAs offer to pay Mr W 
£4,865.60 is fair as it would indemnify him for his loss, in line with the terms of the policy. 
AXA has also offered Mr W the option of having the vehicle and the parts returned to him. 
So, it would be up to him to decide which option hed prefer. 
I appreciate this doesnt put Mr W in the position he was expecting to be in. He was 
expecting to receive his car back in the same condition it had been taken away. This was 
requiring repairs to the damage caused by the accident, which hed estimated would cost 
him around £1,500 to £2,000. Hed accepted AXAs settlement offer of £7,298.40 on this 
basis. 
However, this would have meant him having over £5,000 left over from the cash settlement, 
once the repairs had been carried out. It would have put him in a far better position than he 
was entitled to be under the terms of the policy.
 
I understand its been very upsetting for Mr W who had wanted to keep his car and repair the 
damage caused by the accident. However, AXA has paid Mr W £500, which I think fairly 
recognises the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of the parts being 
removed from his car. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr W, but I think AXAs offer to settle his claim is 
fair and in line with the terms of the policy. I also think the £850 its paid for distress and 
inconvenience is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman