DRN-2789719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
handled a claim Mr B made under their home insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Lloyds include its agents. 
What happened
Mr B called Lloyds in June 2020 to report a leak from his shower which he said had been 
coming through the ceiling in the room below since April 2020. He was advised of the option 
to either use a contractor appointed by Lloyds to trace the leak and access it. Lloyds 
wouldnt be responsible for the costs to stop the leak. 
Lloyds explained that Mr B would need to pay an excess under the policy of £350. 
Alternatively Lloyds said Mr B could arrange for a plumber to stop the leak and carry out 
repairs. It said Mr B would need to provide an invoice from the plumber with a breakdown of 
the cause of the leak and works carried out so that it could identify the costs Lloyds would be 
responsible for covering under the policy. If the claim was covered, Lloyds would consider a 
claim for the damage caused by the escape of water. 
Mr B chose to appoint a plumber to get the work done and in August 2020 he submitted a 
quote from a plumber. This didnt provide a breakdown of the works carried out or identify 
the cause of the leak. So Lloyds told Mr B it wasnt enough to consider his claim and asked 
him to provide further information. 
Mr B raised a complaint with Lloyds. He wasnt happy with the information he was given 
when he called Lloyds. He didnt think it was reasonable to ask him to pay an excess 
upfront. 
Lloyds replied to Mr Bs complaint in October 2020. It said it had acted correctly. It said the 
quote provided by Mr Bs plumber wasnt enough for it to consider his claim. It offered again 
for Mr B to use one of their contractors to undertake the trace and access works. But it 
reiterated that Mr B would need to pay the excess due under the terms of the policy. 
Lloyds said it had acted within the terms of the policy, so it didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to look at things for him. Our investigator thought 
Lloyds had dealt with his claim fairly. As Mr B didnt want to pay the excess to arrange a 
contractor to trace and access the leak, our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted 
unreasonably. 
Mr B didnt agree. In summary he says he expected to receive information about his claim in 
writing as he has an insurance contract with Lloyds. He says to date he hasnt had any 
written communication from Lloyds about his claim.
He says he wasnt offered a contractor at any stage by Lloyds. If he had, he would have 
accepted. He says he didnt refuse to pay his excess, he didnt accept that he needed to pay 
it upfront before a contractor identified the cause of the leak. Mr B expected the excess to 
instead be deducted from the claim settlement. 
He says Lloyds were unable to provide the name of a contractor and its agent was unable to 
confirm the underwriter. Mr B believes Lloyds made no effort to honour the contract and deal 
with his claim.
So as Mr B didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy with Lloyds says in relation to trace and access cover:
Tracing and accessing leaks inside the home
The insurance provided..also covers the reasonable costs in tracing the source of 
the escape of water or leakage of oil and replacement or repair of any walls, floors or 
ceilings (including fixtures and fittings attached to them) inside the home where this 
damage occurs in the course of these investigations 
The insurer will not pay for the costs of repair of the source of damage unless this is covered 
elsewhere under the policy.
Some of the key call recordings have been provided by Lloyds. From these I can hear that 
Lloyds explained to Mr B that he had the option to arrange for a plumber to trace and access 
the leak and fix it. But the costs to fix the leak were Mr Bs responsibility. 
Once this was done, Mr B was to provide details of the works to Lloyds who would send a 
contractor out to assess the reinstatement works for damage caused by the leak. Lloyds 
explained that Mr B also had the option to use a contractor of Lloyds but he would need to 
pay the excess under the policy of £350. Mr B decided to arrange for a plumber to identify 
the leak and get the job fixed and he would come back to Lloyds. 
I understand Mr B believes he should have received information about his claim in writing. 
But theres nothing in the policy that says Lloyds needs to do that. When Mr B asked Lloyds 
if they would send him a claim form, the agent explained that all calls are recorded and 
provided Mr B with a claim reference number. She said Mr B was to come back to them with 
details of the plumbers works  or contact it to arrange for a contractor to trace and access 
the leak. So I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably in not providing an update on the claim 
in writing for Mr B. I think it clearly explained how it would deal with his claim.
I understand that Mr B doesnt believe he should have had to pay the excess up front. But 
the excess is the first part of a claim and is payable by the policyholder. So I dont think 
Lloyds misinformed Mr B here.
Mr B says he wasnt offered the option to use a contractor, but I cant agree having listened 
to the call between him and Lloyds on 3 June 2020. 
When Mr B contacted Lloyds again in August 2020 to raise a complaint, the same options 
were given to Mr B. He provided Lloyds with a quote from a plumber which Ive seen. The 
quote says its to seek and find leak to shower system so it doesnt provide details of the 
works carried out by the plumber to trace and access the source of the leak and repair it. It 
provides a total quote to remove and replace the existing suite for £1,786.00. It doesnt specify if this is inclusive or exclusive of VAT. It doesnt provide a breakdown of the works 
and materials and labour. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds not to accept the quote because it didnt 
provide the information it explained it needed to distinguish between the works the policy 
covered and the fixing of the leak  which is Mr Bs responsibility. 
Lloyds explained that it wouldnt have been able to provide Mr B with the name of a 
contractor until instructed, as this depended on availability. 
Overall I dont think Lloyds handled Mr and Mrs Bs claim unreasonably. I think the options 
available under their policy were explained to Mr B. Lloyds says should Mr B change his 
mind and wish to claim, it will reopen his case and it will arrange for its agent to contact him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman