DRN-4237357
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has not agreed to 
reimburse them for an overpayment they think theyve made.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a mortgage with Virgin Money. The mortgage had a fixed interest rate 
period until 1 September 2022, after which the applicable interest rate reverted to Virgin 
Moneys standard variable rate (SVR). This meant that Mr and Mrs Hs contractual monthly 
payment (CMP) in September 2022 increased to around £2,800.
Mr and Mrs H had already applied, via a broker, for a new fixed interest rate product on 
22 August 2022. Their signed offer acceptance form was received by Virgin Money on 
2 September 2022, and on 13 September 2022 Virgin Money completed the product switch.
From October 2022, Mr and Mrs Hs CMP reduced to around £2,360 per month based on 
their new products fixed interest rate.
Mr and Mrs H complained that they didnt receive a refund (or partial refund) of their 
September 2022 payment. They said they returned their offer acceptance form very early in 
the month and so they dont think its fair to have been charged as though they were on 
Virgin Moneys SVR for the whole month. Mr and Mrs H think it would be fairer for Virgin 
Money to apply their new product interest rate from the date everything needed was 
received by Virgin Money rather than the date it actioned the product switch, and to refund 
any overpayment this results in.
Virgin Money said that it had sent Mr and Mrs H a reminder in May, June and July 2022 
confirming the product they had was coming to an end on 1 September 2022. And that it had 
been clear the cut-off date for receiving their signed offer acceptance form was 18 August 
2022 in order to for it to be in place by 1 September 2022. So, Virgin Money didnt agree to 
backdate the product switch. It also said it had taken the correct CMP in September 2022 so 
there had been no overpayment.
Rather, Virgin Money said it had applied the new products interest rate from when the 
switch was completed on 13 September 2022 and credited Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage 
account with the difference in interest (between its SVR and the new products interest rate) 
for the remainder of September 2022  which was around £430.
Mr and Mrs H have asked that Virgin Money refund at least this amount to them rather than 
credit it to their mortgage account. During the complaints process Virgin Money offered 
Mr and Mrs H £50 to apologise for the length of its call waiting times.
When Mr and Mrs H complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
They said Virgin Money had taken the correct payment in September 2022 and so they 
didnt think Mr and Mrs H were due a refund.
Mr and Mrs H say they were given conflicting information about when their application / 
acceptance form was received. And that staff at Virgin Money didnt seem to understand 
what refund she was asking for which meant the calls were frustrating and that at times she 
felt the staff members became unprofessional.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman. I asked for further 
information from both parties. Virgin Money provided a copy of the calls it had with Mrs H in 
relation to this complaint. It also explained that if it returned part of the CMP Mr and Mrs H 
paid in September 2022, this would put the mortgage account into arrears.
Mr and Mrs H reiterated their concerns (as above, which they think the investigator has 
misunderstood) and explained that they think the interest credited to their mortgage account 
demonstrates that theyve been overcharged.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 June 2023, addressing the further points. Here I said 
that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I explained that I didnt think Mr and Mrs H had 
been overcharged or were due a partial refund. I addressed the customer service issues 
raised and explained that I thought Virgin Moneys offer to pay them £50 was fair in the 
circumstances.
Neither party provided further comments in relation to my provisional decision and the 
deadline has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
Did Virgin Money make an error regarding Mr and Mrs Hs product switch?
Virgin Money has explained that in order to ensure that Mr and Mrs Hs new product was in 
place for 1 September 2022, it would have needed to receive their signed offer acceptance 
form by 18 August 2022. Based on Virgin Moneys letters to Mr and Mrs H in May, June, and 
July 2022, Im satisfied that Virgin Money took reasonable steps to make Mr and Mrs H 
aware of this deadline. I think it was made clear their mortgage would move onto 
Virgin Moneys SVR in September 2022 if they didnt switch their product in time.
Virgin Money has shown that it received Mr and Mrs Hs signed offer acceptance of the new 
product on 2 September 2022, so it was correct for their mortgage to have moved onto 
Virgin Moneys SVR on 1 September 2022. This means that the CMP Virgin Money collected 
in September 2022 was also correct at the time.
Mr and Mrs H initially said that they thought Virgin Money should apply their new products 
interest rate from the date it had received everything it needed for the switch. Virgin Money 
received Mr and Mrs Hs signed offer acceptance form on 2 September 2022, which was a 
Friday. It completed the product switch on 13 September 2022, around a week and a half 
later. I dont think this represents an unreasonable delay or that Virgin Money is required to 
implement a product switch on the day the documentation is received. It is to be expected 
that any mortgage provider would need some time to implement a product switch in line with 
its own procedures, and Mr and Mrs H were made aware of this when Virgin Money shared 
the deadline referenced above with them.
Are Mr and Mrs H entitled to a partial refund?Virgin Money has explained that it applies the interest on its mortgages for the whole month 
on the first of each month. So here, on 1 September 2022 it based that months interest on 
its SVR of 5.49%. When the product switch took place, it calculated the applicable interest 
for the remainder of September 2022 at Mr and Mrs Hs new product interest rate 3.24% and 
credited the difference for those dates to their mortgage account. So, Mr and Mrs H havent 
incurred any loss.
From October 2022 onwards, Mr and Mrs Hs CMP was based on their new product and 
would have taken into account the existing balance.
Virgin Money has explained that if it were to pay Mr and Mrs H the interest credit that it made 
to their account it would need to reduce their balance by the same amount. And that this 
would leave their mortgage account in arrears.
Virgin Money has taken the correct payments based on the applicable CMP at the time. So, 
Mr and Mrs H arent entitled to a refund as it wasnt an overpayment. Ive thought about 
whether it would be fair for Virgin Money to reimburse Mr and Mrs H in the circumstances, 
bearing in mind the current cost of living crisis theyve referred to. However, as doing so 
would put their mortgage account in arrears, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
require Virgin Money to do so.
Mr and Mrs Hs customer service concerns.
I understand Mr and Mrs Hs concerns to be:
They had to wait 50 minutes to speak to someone.
They were given incorrect information about when Virgin Money received their 
documentation from their broker.
The staff member who dealt with their complaint was unprofessional during their 
telephone call.
Mr and Mrs H dont appear to be disputing that the compensation they were offered (£50) in 
relation to Virgin Moneys telephone waiting times, but for clarity I think this is adequate and 
in line with our published guidance on award bandings.
In the calls Ive listened to, any reference to an incorrect date was quickly corrected. But Ive 
also set out the dates in this decision to confirm how the events unfolded. Mr and Mrs Hs 
signed offer acceptance form is dated 31 August 2022, but it was received by Virgin Money 
on 2 September 2022. Whilst this may have caused some confusion, I dont think it has 
affected whether Virgin Money has operated the product switch correctly.
In relation to the conversation Mrs H had with Virgin Money about her complaint, I 
understand she feels the staff member was aggressive and rude which was 
unprofessional. Having listened to this call, its clear that both parties became frustrated as 
they didnt seem to agree with the points the other was making. And at times the staff 
member at Virgin Money did speak over Mrs H for which she apologised at the time. 
Whilst this call could have been better, I dont think any compensation is warranted in the 
circumstances. This is because I dont think the staff member was aggressive or 
inappropriate to the extent that more than an apology is needed here, and the staff member 
did apologise at the time for how she had come across.My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has made a fair offer 
to settle the complaint and that it should pay Mr and Mrs H £50 compensation if it hasnt 
done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman