DRN-2404953
The complaint
Mr J and Mr H have complained that the Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly declined a claim 
Mr H made for damage to the property caused by fire. Theyve said the decision to cancel 
the policy and decline the claim has left them in financial difficulty and will cause Mr J to 
become homeless as he lives in a flat within the property.
What happened
Mr J told us that on 28 April 2019 the property (owned by Mr J and leased by Mr H), was 
broken into and vandalised by a group of youths. On 29 April 2019, the property was again 
broken into and set fire to, at a number of different locations within the building. The Fire 
Service were called out to extinguish the fire, and Mr H made a claim under the policy for the 
fire damage caused to the building. 
On 1 May 2019, SOL sent their loss adjuster (W&C) and their forensic investigator (B) to 
attend the property. W&C and B interviewed Mr H and Mr J and took photographs of the 
property, and provided their reports to SOL. On reviewing the reports, SOL concluded that 
the evidence showed the business had stopped trading, which changed the risk. As Mr H 
had therefore breached a condition of the policy, that meant there would be no cover for the 
claim. Mr H and Mr J complained about SOLs decision to cancel the policy and decline the 
claim and provided evidence to show the business was trading at the time the fire occurred.
SOL issued their final response letter to Mr J and Mr H on 18 December 2019. In that letter 
they said it was evident that the business hadnt been trading since mid-January 2019, and if 
theyd been notified of that, they would have cancelled the policy. They also explained they 
didnt believe it was unreasonable for the insurers to withdraw their indemnity and refuse to 
pay the claim, because the policy wasnt intended to operate where no business was being 
carried out in the property. In coming to their view, SOL relied on reports provided by W&C 
and B which were based on the interviews theyd had with Mr J and Mr H on 1 May 2019, 
and the photographs theyd taken of the property at that time. 
Mr J and Mr H werent happy with the response provided by SOL so brought their complaint 
to our service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and issued her view not upholding 
the complaint on 4 November 2020. She concluded that the available evidence didnt 
persuade her that trade was taking place at the property at the time of the fire, so SOL 
hadnt done anything wrong in cancelling the policy and declining the claim.
Mr J and Mr H didnt accept our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision 
on their complaint. They also provided additional evidence to support their stance that the 
business was trading at the time of the fire. Our investigator considered this additional 
evidence but concluded that it didnt change her view on the complaint.
Mr J and Mr H have asked to be provided with a copy of the reports, and that request is 
currently being processed. However, theyve also asked that I proceed to issue this final 
decision in the meantime, as they want this matter to be resolved as soon as possible. Ive 
considered whether its appropriate to issue a final decision in these circumstances, and Im 
satisfied that it is. Ive reviewed the reports, and where I make reference to them in this 
decision, Ive included a detailed description of the paragraph or the photograph that Im 
relying on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Ive carefully read and considered all of the evidence on the case file, however, in this 
decision Ive only referred to the evidence that is directly relevant to the two key questions I 
need to decide.
The first is whether SOL acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy in 
cancelling the policy and declining the claim. The second is whether it was fair and 
reasonable of SOL to make that decision, in all the circumstances of the complaint.
The key issue of fact I need to decide, in making my decision on this complaint, is whether or 
not the business was trading at the property, at the time of the fire. Where the evidence is 
inconsistent or contradictory, the standard of proof I apply is the balance of probabilities. In 
coming to my decision, I need to be persuaded that one set of circumstances was more 
likely than not, to have occurred, than the other. 
In evaluating the evidence relevant to this question of fact, Ive considered not only the detail 
of that evidence, but the timing of when that evidence was provided. Ill first set out the 
evidence Mr H and Mr J have given, in support of their stance that the business was trading 
at the time of the fire. Ill then set out the evidence that SOL has provided in support of their 
conclusion that the business was not trading at the time of the fire.
Mr H and Mr J have told us that the business was trading at the time of the fire. Theyve also 
provided photographs of two items of stock with expiry dates of 27 February 2019 and 
18 December 2019, which they say are representative of approximately 20 similar items of 
stock. They believe the presence of this stock in the property demonstrates the business 
was still trading. On 10 December 2020, Mr J provided copies of receipts for cash purchases 
of stock from a business Ill call J, with the following dates in 2019: 20 January; 27 January; 
3 February; 10 February; 17 February; 24 February; 3 March; 10 March; 17 March; 
23 March; 31 March; 7 April; 14 April; and 21 April. The invoices show the net value of the 
goods and the VAT element but dont include any description of the goods, or any name or 
signature confirming the goods were received in good condition.
Our investigator considered this evidence but concluded it hadnt changed her view. She 
asked Mr J and Mr H if they could provide electronic copies of their accounts, invoices from 
suppliers, or bank statements for the relevant period, but they werent able to do so.
Mr J explained that the businesses income is cash, and they took receipts off tradesmen 
that they kept in an office and recorded on a computer in that office, which was burnt in the 
fire. He also said that other proof would be with the companies they traded with, many of 
who had closed due to COVID restraints and who may not re-open.
SOL have provided reports from W&C and B, which include information they obtained from 
Mr J and Mr H during their interviews on 1 May 2019. The reports also include photographs 
of the property taken at that time. 
Paragraph 1.10 of W&Cs report says that on 1 May 2019, Mr J and Mr told them that they were having problems with the local authority which resulted in the business having to shut 
in mid-January 2019, and it remained shut since that time. The report recorded that both 
parties stated that they had intended to re-open the business once those problems were 
resolved.
Paragraph 1.11 of W&Cs report, says Mr J and Mr H told them that after the business 
stopped trading, the ground floor windows of the property were externally boarded up, 
together with some external doors and Mr J continued to live in the accommodation on the 
premises. The report also included photos of the boarded-up windows and a description of 
the ground floor windows being fitted with chipboard panels that had an aged appearance, 
consistent with the boarding having been in place since the reported closure in 
January 2019. The report recorded that Mr H and Mr J had said the gaming machines were 
removed from the premises in January 2019.
The report said that evidence of outdated sell-by dates on food containers had been found 
in the kitchen of the living accommodation which coincided with the approximate date when 
the business was said to have stopped trading, which they said brought into question 
whether Mr J was living in the premises at the time of the fire. Photographs of two 
consumable items with expiry dates of January 2019 were included in the report. 
Photographs of stock that expired on or around January 2019 were also included in the 
report. 
Our investigator made Mr J and Mr H aware of this evidence that shed considered. Mr J 
then clarified that the gaming machines had been removed from the ground floor to another 
location in the building and he explained that the windows had been boarded up following 
the break in on 28 April 2019.
Having carefully considered all of the available evidence, I think it more likely than not, that 
the business was not trading at the time the fire took place. Mr J has provided a number of 
invoices which include dates that cover the period from January 2019 to April 2019. 
However, I have to weigh up this evidence, against evidence provided at the time of the 
event, and I find the contemporaneous evidence to be more persuasive. I think it more likely 
than not, that Mr H and Mr J did tell W&C and B, on or around the time of the fire, that the 
business had stopped trading in January 2019, but given the time thats passed, their 
recollections of that conversation may have faded. The only other evidence that Mr J and 
Mr H have been able to provide, aside from their own assurances, is a photograph of two 
items of stock with expiry dates of 27 February 2019 and 18 December 2019, an assurance 
that there were 20 other such items at the property. On the other hand, SOL has provided 
reports which contain a detailed record of the questions that were asked, and answers that 
were provided by Mr J and Mr H on or around the date of the fire, together with photographs 
of the property, and items within the property on or around the date of the fire, which 
persuade me that more likely than not, the business wasnt trading at the time of the fire.
Ive next thought about whether SOL was permitted, by the terms and conditions, to cancel 
the policy and decline the claim as a result of the business not trading at the time the fire 
occurred.
Ive set out below the relevant provisions of the policy terms and conditions, and policy 
schedule that are relevant to this complaint.
The General Policy Conditions included from page 31 of the policy terms and conditions say:
These are the conditions of the insurance You will need to meet as Your part of the 
contract. If You do not, a claim may be rejected, or payment could be reduced. In 
some circumstances Your Policy might become invalid. The first condition, Alteration in Risk, says:
You must notify Underwriters, via Your insurance adviser without delay if the risk has 
altered:
(e) by a change in the type of business You operate, or the Buildings becoming 
Unoccupied
otherwise Underwriters may refuse to pay Your claim(s) or provide indemnity under 
this Policy.
Unoccupied is defined as When the Premises (or any part of the Premises) are closed for 
trade for a period in excess of fourteen consecutive days.
In summary, the policy terms and conditions required Mr H to notify SOL if part of the 
premises were closed for trade for more than 14 consecutive days. 
As Mr H didnt notify SOL of this, and as Im persuaded that at the time of the fire, the 
premises had been closed for trade for more than 14 consecutive days, Im satisfied that 
SOL acted in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, in declining the claim and 
cancelling the policy.
Ive also gone on to consider whether it was fair and reasonable of SOL to apply the policy 
terms and conditions to Mr J and Mr Hs circumstances, and Im persuaded it was. SOL said 
they would not offer insurance in the circumstances where a business wasnt trading in the 
property, so if theyd been notified of the change in risk, they would have cancelled the 
policy. SOL have also explained that the risk Mr H claimed for, was not the risk theyd 
agreed to insure when the policy was taken out. Its for insurers to decide what risks they are 
prepared to indemnify and on what basis. SOL have explained that they never would have 
agreed to cover this risk - of damage being caused to a property where no business was 
trading - had they been informed of the risk. SOL informed Mr H, in the policy documents, 
that it was a condition of cover that he must inform them of an Alteration of Risk. He didnt 
do that, so I therefore think SOL have acted fairly in declining the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against the 
Society of Lloyds. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman