DRN-2743086
Complaint
Mrs F has complained that Zopa Limited (Zopa) unfairly arranged unaffordable guarantor 
loans for her. She says any checks would have shown that she couldnt afford to repay what 
she was being lent. 
  
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mrs F being provided 
with a first loan in April 2018. The loan was for £3,000.00 and due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
instalments of £105.90. Mrs F settled this loan early with some of the proceeds from a 
second loan for £10,000.00 which Zopa arranged in October 2018. 
Loan 2 was due to be arranged in 48 monthly instalments of £287.05. Finally, Zopa arranged 
a third loan for £11,500.00 in May 2019 and some of the proceeds from this settled the 
second loan. This loan was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £310.54.
Mrs Fs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Zopa hadnt 
acted unfairly when bringing about loan one. However he also thought that Zopa ought to 
have seen that Mrs F wasnt in a position to repay loans 2 and 3 at the time it arranged 
them. So he partially upheld Mrs Fs complaint. 
Zopa disagreed with our adjudicators view but Mrs F didnt. Zopa said that it was happy its 
check were completed in line with the regulators rules and so it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong when bringing about these loans. As Zopa disagreed with our adjudicator, 
the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
As the parties are no longer in dispute over loan 1, this final decision is only considering 
whether Zopa acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs F when it brought about loans 2 and 
3.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs Fs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Fs complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that   
Mrs F would be able to meet her obligations under the P2P agreements in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs F wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Zopa didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs F and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs F would be 
able to meet her obligations under the P2P agreements in a sustainable way? 
The rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Zopa brought about these 
P2P agreements with Mrs F required it to carry out a proportionate assessment of whether 
she could afford to make her repayments. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Zopa had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs F. In practice this 
meant that Zopa had to ensure that making the payments to these loans wouldnt cause   
Mrs F undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough 
for Zopa to simply think about the likelihood of Mrs F making payments, it had to consider 
the impact of loan repayments on Mrs F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Zopas checks reasonable and proportionate?
Zopa has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs F before 
arranging these loans. It says also carried out credit checks to work out what Mrs Fs 
existing credit commitments were too. 
Ive carefully thought about what Zopa has provided and what it has said about its checks. 
But given the credit check for loan two showed some adverse information and that Mrs F 
had taken out additional borrowing since loan 1, and Mrs F was returning for substantially 
more in funds, I think Zopas checks ought to have gone further. In my view, Zopa needed to 
do more to get a better understanding of just why it was she wanted further funds when she 
already appeared to be quite heavily indebted. And it follows that I think Zopa ought to have 
found out more about Mrs Fs circumstances when she returned for even more funds for 
loan 3, only a few months later.  
Indeed, it seems to me that Zopa merely carried out the same checks for all three of Mrs Fs 
loans. And think that this led to Zopa failing to take into account the whole picture of its 
overall lending history with Mrs F, in favour of a narrower focus on the individual 
applications, which presented a more favourable picture of a deteriorating position. 
Given Zopas own information showed that Mrs Fs debt to income ratio was increasing, I 
would have expected it to have taken further steps to verify Mrs Fs income and expenditure 
to ensure she had the necessary funds to repay the loan it was arranging.
As Zopa proceeded with loans 2 and 3 in circumstances where Mrs Fs indebtedness was 
increasing without taking steps to verify her income and expenditure, Im satisfied that the 
checks Zopa carried out before arranging these loans werent reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Zopa that Mrs F would have 
been unable to repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that proportionate checks would have told Zopa that Mrs F wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay these loans. 
Mrs F has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for these loans. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mrs F has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Zopa mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Zopa showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Mrs Fs financial circumstances were more likely than not to 
have been at the time.Having reviewed the Zopas income and expenditure assessment for loan 2, I can see that 
Zopas own calculations confirmed that Mrs F had just under £500 left over once her rent 
and monthly credit commitments were deducted from her income. Zopas own assessment 
therefore shows that Mrs F would have been left with around £200 a month after all the 
credit and rent commitments and the payments to this loan were met. 
However, Mrs F would be required to meet all her essential living and transportation costs 
from this £200 a month. The information Mrs F has provided shows that her living costs were 
substantially in excess of £200 a month. In fact, when Mrs Fs food, transportation costs 
(which Zopa ought to have been aware of) and other non-credit related commitments are 
taken into account, her essential living and transportation costs were closer to £500. Given 
these were commitments Mrs F would be expected to make over the course of loan 2, it 
follows that the monthly payments to loan 2 were unaffordable. 
Given the short period between loans 2 and 3, unsurprisingly, Mrs Fs essential living and 
transportation costs were pretty similar at the time of loan 3. And as Mrs F would be required 
to make payments of just over £300 as well as her essential living and transportation costs 
from around £725 a month, it follows the payments to loan 3 were also unaffordable.   
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs F would not have been able to make the 
repayments to loans 2 and 3. 
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs F in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs F in some other 
way.  
So I find that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs F in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out on pages 
one and two of this decision, I find that Zopa:
didnt complete proportionate checks on Mrs F to satisfy itself that she was able to 
repay loans 2 and 3; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mrs F 
was unable to make the repayments for loans 2 and 3 without borrowing further or 
suffering significant adverse consequences;
Zopa didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs F in some other way.
The above findings leave me concluding that Zopa unfairly and unreasonably brought about 
loans 2 and 3 for Mrs F in October 2018 and May 2019.
Did Mrs F lose out as a result of Zopa unfairly and unreasonably bringing about her loans?
I think that these loans had the effect of unfairly increasing Mrs Fs indebtedness as it led to 
her to being given additional credit she couldnt afford to repay. The monthly payments, 
which also included interest and charges, took up a reasonable portion of Mrs Fs income at 
a time where she was already struggling to make ends meet. So I find that Mrs F did suffer significant adverse consequences and as a result lost out 
because Zopa unfairly arranged these loans.
  
Fair compensation  What Zopa needs to do to put things right for Mrs F
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Zopa to put things right for 
Mrs F in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mrs F paid on loan 2;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 3 from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £11,500.00 
originally lent. Zopa should treat any payments made should the new starting 
balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to 
Mrs F. If an outstanding balance remains on loan 3 after these adjustments, Zopa 
can use the compensation due for loan 2 to reduce and clear this balance.
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees, charges and overpayments 
from the date they were paid by Mrs F to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Fs credit file as a result of loan 2. 
Any adverse information recorded about loan 3 should also be removed in the event 
Mrs F no longer has an outstanding balance with Zopa, once all adjustments have 
been made.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
If after all of the above adjustments have been made (including offsetting the compensation 
for loan 2) an outstanding balance remains on loan 3, Zopa should set up an affordable 
payment plan for Mrs F. Id also remind Zopa of its obligation to exercise forbearance if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have 
been made to the account, and its the case that Mrs F is experiencing financial difficulty.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Zopa Limited should put 
things right for Mrs F in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman