DRN-3322883
The complaint
Mr R complains that Creation Financial Services Limited  (Creation) didnt set up a direct 
debit payment for May 2021. He would like a late payment fee incurred refunded. And 
reassurance that his credit file hasnt been impacted.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I  have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr R has given us the letter Creation sent him to confirm his direct debit instruction 
along with a screen shot to show the direct debit was enabled  on his account  the 
latter wasnt dated so I havent relied on that in this view.
The letter says, it can take up to 28 days for the direct debit payment to take effect  
and that an alternative payment method may be required for payment. It doesnt 
state that if  a direct debit is set up after a statement has been issued it wont take 
effect until the next statement  as was the case here. As Creation didnt make this 
clear, I think it was reasonable for Mr R to assume the direct debit had been set up .
Creation said  that as no direct debit information shows on Mr Rs April 2021 
statement he would have known the direct debit had been set up whereas this 
information does show on his May statement . Looking at these statements it 
appears that information on direct debits only shows in bold on the front page under 
a heading direct debits when there is a direct debit in place. As there is no 
information  including no heading of direct debit  on the April statement I am not 
sure how Mr R was expected to know that meant the direct debit wasnt yet live. 
Creation has also given us a screen shot of a pop-up screen that Mr R would have 
seen  when he set up his direct debit. However, that mirrors the information in the 
letter it sent Mr R. saying it can take up to 28 days. please ensure you continue to 
make payments.. It is no more specific than the letter Creation sent.
Mr R paid the direct debit as soon as he realised the payment hadnt gone through. I 
think he genuinely believed the direct debit was in place in time. I dont think the 
correspondence from Creation was sufficiently precise to make  Mr R realise he 
would need to make an alternative payment for May .
I think its reasonable that Creation refund the late payment fee incurred .And that  no 
adverse information is recorded on Mr Rs credit file in respect of the May 2021  
direct debit payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Creation Financial Services Limited should:-
Refund the late payment fee incurred to Mr R.
Ensure no adverse information in relation to May 2021 direct debit payment is 
recorded on Mr Rs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman