DRN-3876076
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality and was misrepresented to him.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr F used a broker (who Ill call CF) to arrange a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage for the supply of a used car. The cash price of the car was 
£8,190, the car had travelled 91,900 miles and was just under 12 years old at the point of 
supply.
Within five days of taking delivery of the car Mr F reported several electrical problems, 
including the rear headlight cluster, rear registration plate light, the fog light, instrument 
lights, internal socket 12V and the left indicator. He also reported issues with two flat tyres, 
the left suspension and an issue with the gearbox being stuck in sports mode.
Mr F says the dealership said it replaced the rear tyres, and only changed the headlights 
before returning the car to him. Mr F said the car was still stuck in sports mode, but the 
dealership advised this was related to the suspension problem, which it would order the 
parts for, but it didnt. He says he replaced missing fuses and resolved the other electrical 
issues. Mr F didnt believe the dealership had replaced the tyres. And in May 2022 the car 
broke down and needed to be recovered to a third-party garage. The garage diagnosed 
several faults including the damaged drop link bar cover and leak, battery failure, alternator 
failure, worn rear tyres, and a failed gearbox controller linked to sport mode issue. Mr F was 
quoted £3,500 for the repairs.
Mr F contacted Advantage to let it know about the issues he was experiencing. He was also 
unhappy that he was told the car came with 12-month MOT and a six-month warranty. 
However, the car only came with six months MOT, and he hadnt received any warranty 
paperwork.  On this basis Mr F says the car was misrepresented to him, he wanted 
Advantage to honour the six-month warranty, so the faults could be repaired.
Advantage arranged for an independent inspection to be completed. In June 2022 the 
engineer concluded the faults present were due to wear and tear and didnt consider that the 
serviceable components which had failed, had done so prematurely. Advantage concluded 
that there wasnt enough evidence to show the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. It said it couldnt comment on the warranty issue. 
Mr F disputed the independent engineers findings, his comments were passed to the 
engineer for further response. The engineer didnt change his view. He said the current 
faults were due to wear and tear, given the age and mileage of the car.
Mr F didnt agree, he brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into the 
complaint. He thought the current faults were due to wear and tear of serviceable 
components, so he didnt think the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
The investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show the car had been 
misrepresented to Mr F.
Mr F disagreed. The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has made lengthy submissions, and Ive read the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. And our rules allow me to 
do this, this reflects our informal, free service as an alternative to the courts.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Mr F is unhappy with the 
dealerships handling of this matter, but I think it would assist if I clarify that Im unable to 
consider the actions of the dealership, I can only look at what Advantage did and whether it 
needs to take any further action to resolve Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
 
Cars quality
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr F. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of 
goods, Advantage is responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. 
The CRA also says that goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present 
when the car was supplied, unless Advantage can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car 
was faulty when Mr C took possession of it, and this made it not of a satisfactory quality, itd 
be fair and reasonable to ask Advantage to put this right. 
Mr F experienced issues within days of collecting the car, the dealership says it completed 
all the repairs, but was waiting for parts for the suspension, however it said it was unable to 
get int touch with Mr F and he didnt bring his car back for repair. Mr F says only the 
headlight was repaired and he completed the outstanding electrical repairs himself. We 
asked for job sheets from the dealership, but these havent been provided, and Mr F says he 
wasnt given an invoice or job sheet of the repairs undertaken in January 2022.
In any event, the car appeared to be returned to Mr F in working order, as he continued to 
use the car, until it broke down in May 2022.
 
Cars are complicated machines and there are lots of things that can cause one to go wrong 
within five months of supply. When Mr F took possession of the car, it was nearly 12 years 
old and had nearly 92,000 miles on the clock, and the price he paid reflected this. And I think 
a reasonable person would expect an older car with high mileage to be experiencing quite a 
bit of wear and tear and to consider many components could be reaching the end of their 
serviceable life. So just because faults occur shortly after supply doesnt mean I can assume 
it was present at the point of supply. Also, its not enough simply for a fault to be present. The car would need to be of unsatisfactory quality because of the fault too, and not just due 
to normal wear and tear. 
As the faults here were reported within six months, its assumed the faults were present 
when the car was supplied and Advantage is responsible, unless it can prove otherwise. And 
I think it has done this; The independent engineer confirmed the sports mode button cant be 
switched off, the anti-roll bar gaiter was damaged allowing grease to escape, the rear tyres 
were within the legal limit with 1.6mm remaining, brake discs corroded (but meeting the MOT 
standards) with a slight oil seepage which is normal for a high mileage car, headlamp upper 
mount broken, ABS warning light displayed, battery not holding charge and alternator failure.
The engineer said the brakes and suspension ball joint would have been in a similar 
condition at the point of supply and wouldnt be considered as premature wear given the 
cars age and high mileage. He concluded the battery had come to the end of its service life 
and said the alternator failure would have been sudden and not present at the point of sale. 
The engineer concluded that the multiple electrical issues, including the ABS light and the 
sports mode button functioning were caused by the alternator, by faulty charging or by the 
faulty battery.
In summary the independent engineer said;
To simplify, the vehicle has 90,000 miles of wear present and any necessary repairs 
classed as routine maintenance and not considered premature maintenance and therefore 
not the responsibility of the sales agent to replace.
Based on the independent engineers findings Advantage said it wasnt responsible for any 
outstanding repairs. 
Mr F tells us he is an experienced engineer, and he disputes the findings of the independent 
engineer. Mr F says the sports mode issue was present in January 2022 and he doesnt 
think this is connected to the alternator or charging problem, but rather says this is caused 
by the gearbox control ECU fault, which he says the garage confirmed.
 
In response to Mr Fs comments the engineer said; Having purchased a 12-year-old vehicle 
with 92,000 miles at the point of sale, he must have realistic expectations that such a vehicle 
would require on-going maintenance & component replacement due to in-service wear & 
tear. The issues identified by our engineer quite clearly fall within this category.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Fs strength of feeling here, the independent engineer is an expert 
and is independent of both Advantage and Mr F. And Im satisfied that its reasonable to rely 
on the engineers conclusions  that the electrical issues, including the fault with the sports 
mode button is due to the failure of the alternator/ battery charging issues. And the faults 
identified relate to ongoing maintenance and serviceable components which require 
replacement, due to normal wear and tear.
Mr F hasnt provided anything, such as a report from a garage, to confirm the sports mode 
function issue is related to a gearbox control ECU fault and not related to the alternator/ 
battery, charging system. And in the absence of anything to the contrary, I think its more 
likely than not that those outstanding faults are due to wear and tear of serviceable 
components. In the circumstances, I dont think the outstanding faults mean the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F. And whilst I sympathise with Mr Fs 
situation, I dont have any grounds to direct Advantage to cover the cost of repairing the 
outstanding issues.
MisrepresentationMr F says that the CF advisor told him over the phone that the car would come with a 12-
month MOT and six months warranty. But it turned out the car only came with six months 
MOT, and he hasnt received any warranty paperwork. Mr F says he wouldnt have entered 
the agreement for the car if hed known there was only a six-months MOT and no warranty.
 
To make a finding of misrepresentation here I would need to be satisfied that a false 
statement was made to Mr F and that false statement was a key factor in inducing Mr F into 
entering the agreement for the car.
Im unable to confirm what Mr F was told during his calls with CF, so Ive looked at the 
emails between CF and Mr F. On 31 December 2021 I can see that CF said the car came 
with six-months MOT but that the dealer has said they could do another one. In response Mr 
F said hed be happy if a 12-month MOT could be done. From the emails, it appears that Mr 
F was told a 12-month MOT might be possible, but I havent seen anything to confirm this 
was guaranteed. So, Im not persuaded a false statement was made about the MOT. Even if 
I were to accept Mr F had been promised a 12-months MOT, Im not satisfied that the length 
of the MOT was a key factor in Mr F entering the agreement. So, I cant fairly say the MOT 
length was misrepresented to Mr F.
Having looked at the emails between CF and Mr F during the sales process, Ive only seen 
one reference to a three-month warranty, Ive not found anything to support what Mr F says 
he was told about a six months-warranty. So, I dont think there is enough evidence to say a 
false statement was made about a six-month warranty being provided. 
Even if I were to accept that a false statement was made about the car coming with a three-
month warranty, Im not persuaded Mr F would not have entered the agreement if he was 
made aware he wouldnt be getting a warranty. I say this because I think that if the warranty 
was a key factor in entering the agreement, I would expect to see evidence that Mr F was 
following this up shortly after sale, given it was important to him, but Ive not seen anything to 
evidence he did this. In the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say the three-month 
warranty was misrepresented, so I dont have grounds to ask Advantage to honour a 
warranty or pay for the repairs.
I appreciate this decision will probably come as a disappointment to Mr F, but this is the final 
stage of our process. He has indicated that he intends to pursue this matter through the 
courts. Mr F is of course free to reject this decision and pursue this matter by alternative 
means  should he wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman