DRN-4250222
The complaint
U complains that Squareup Europe Ltd (Square) closed its account without prior notice and 
recorded adverse data against it. 
U is represented in bringing the complaint by its director, Mr F.
What happened
In June 2022, Square closed Us account without any prior warning and recorded adverse 
information against it. 
U opened a new account with a different provider, but as a result of the information recorded 
on its credit file by Square, the new provider closed the account shortly after it was opened.  
U complained to Square in February 2023. They replied to U in March saying they could 
provide no further assistance in relation to the closure of the account.
Mr F was unhappy with this response, so he contacted our service. One of our investigators 
looked into the matter. She explained to Mr F that Square were fulfilling their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they made the decision to deactivate Us account. And she was 
satisfied Square hadnt made an error when it decided to close the account.
Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr F would like the 
account to be reinstated, to be told the reason for the account closure and to have the 
adverse information against U removed from its credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses, such as Square, are entitled to close a customers account, so long as 
they do so in a way that complies with the terms and conditions of the customers (in this 
case Us) account.
Having reviewed the account terms and conditions, I can see that section 37 addresses the 
termination of payment services. It explains that Square can close Us account without notice 
in certain circumstances, and it lists the criteria they must meet in order for them to do so. 
Square arent obliged to disclose the reasons for their decision to Mr F, and in this case, they 
chose not to explain their reasons.
Ive considered the evidence provided to me by both parties to determine whether or not I 
think Square acted fairly when they closed Us account. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
Square acted fairly and that they were entitled to close Us account without giving it advance 
notice.
I agree that it would have been helpful for Square to make U aware of the termination 
immediately, however, telling U sooner wouldnt have changed the outcome.
Mr F said that if the account couldnt be reinstated, he would like Square to remove the 
adverse data from Us credit file to enable U to open an account elsewhere. Ive not seen 
any evidence to show that the adverse information on the credit file has been recorded 
unfairly, so Im unable to ask Square to remove it from Us file.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr F, but I cant reasonably say Square did 
anything wrong in closing Us account in the manner they did. As such, I wont be asking 
Square to remove the adverse information from Us credit file, nor will I be asking Square to 
compensate U for any inconvenience it experienced as a result of the closure of the account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman