DRN-3173288
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
when his finance agreement ended.  
What happened
Mr C is unhappy about the difficulties he experienced when trying to make his final balloon 
payment to BMWFS.
Mr Cs balloon payment fell due in February 2021. In March 2021 Mr C contacted BMWFS 
via email and said hed made attempts to pay the balloon payment but the automated 
system was advising that no payment was due.
BMWFS responded and confirmed the balance. It provided bank details so that Mr C could 
make payment.
Mr C said he didnt want to pay by bank transfer but that he wanted to use his debit card. He 
made payments using his card in March and April but got locked out of the card payment 
system due to the transaction limits on his debit card.
Whilst Mr C was trying to make payments, BMWFS applied missed payment markers to his 
credit file. Mr C says that this affected the credit limits on two of his credit cards.
Mr C complained to BMWFS.  In response, BMWFS apologised for what had happened and 
offered a goodwill gesture of £100. It said it had requested that the markers on Mr Cs credit 
file be removed. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He didnt think BMWFS 
had acknowledged the impact of the negative markers on his credit file.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think BMWFS had acted unreasonably in 
the way it had tried to resolve the complaint, but said BMWFS should do more to help Mr C 
by writing to his credit card providers and explaining what happened and asking them to 
restore Mr Cs credit limits.
Mr C didnt agree. He said the compensation didnt reflect the detrimental financial impact 
hed suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what happened here. Mr C has explained that the automated payment 
system advised that there was no balance to pay and that there were long waits on the 
customer service helpline. Hes also explained that he was subject to a £2000 per day limit 
on payment from his account using his debit card. 
BMWFS has acknowledged that there were some failings in the service it provided. I can see 
that Mr C was in contact with the collections team whilst he was making payments to clear 
the balance in March and April. Despite this, missed payments were recorded on his credit 
file. Whilst I understand that BMWFS didnt have any control over the daily transaction limit 
on Mr Cs debit card, I do think it was unfair in the circumstances, to report the missed 
payments. Further, if the automated payment system had functioned correctly and allowed 
Mr C to make payments, I think he would have cleared the balance much sooner and there 
would have been no issue about payments not being made on time.
On balance, and as Ive said, I dont think BMWFS acted fairly in reporting missed payments 
on Mr Cs credit file. Its likely that the adverse information impacted on the credit limit on Mr 
Cs other credit cards. That said, I think BMWFS responded reasonably to the complaint by 
removing the adverse information and offering compensation. 
Putting things right
Its up to Mr Cs credit card providers as to whether they reinstate the previous credit limit.  
Other factors can affect this decision and there are no guarantees. BMWFS has said that its 
final response should be sufficient to share with the credit card providers. I dont think this 
goes far enough. I think its more likely that the credit card providers will respond positively if 
BMWFS write directly to them, explaining what happened and requesting that the credit limit 
is reinstated.
In relation to the compensation already paid by BMWFS, I think the sum is fair.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services GB Limited must 
write to each of Mr Cs credit card providers to explain what happened and ask them to 
reinstate the previous credit limit.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman