DRN-4155722
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D are unhappy with the service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) when making a claim under their car insurance policy.  
Mr D and Mrs D are both parties to this complaint. Mrs D has primarily dealt with this service. 
For ease of reference I have referred to Mrs D throughout this final decision. 
What happened
Mrs Ds car was involved in an incident in June 2022. Mrs D contacted Admiral about making 
a claim. Admiral authorised for repairs to take place through one of their approved repairers. 
The repairer informed Mrs D that the part required for repairs would need to be custom 
ordered. 
On 7 September Mrs D asked for an update. The repairer informed Mrs D Ive spoken to the 
parts department and unfortunately the glass section for the roof is on long term back order, 
as it has to be specially made. Will keep you updated with the progress of it. 
On 17 September Mrs D asked the repairer for an update on how long the long term back 
order would be, and said we would consider selling the car if the time delay is excessive.  
On 18 September Mrs D contacted Admiral and explained that shed traded in her old car 
and had brough another one. Mrs D asked for her claim to be cancelled. Mrs D was informed 
if any parts had already been ordered, Mrs D would be liable for the cost if the claim was 
cancelled. 
The following day Mrs D emailed the repairer confirming Following my last email to you 
dated 17th September 2022 I would like to confirm to you that I have sold the car. 
Admiral contacted Mrs D and informed her that the part ordered was non-returnable and Mrs 
D would therefore have to pay for this cost. Mrs D complained saying that she was told not 
to cancel her claim on 18 October because the costs would be covered by Admiral if the 
claim continued.  
Admiral responded to Mrs Ds complaint saying Mrs D was informed that continuing with the 
repairs would mean that the cost of the part would be recoverable, but if the claim was 
cancelled, then Mrs D would be liable for this cost.   
Mrs D was unhappy with this response, and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. The investigator didnt ask Admiral to do anything in resolution of Mrs 
Ds complaint. 
Mrs D rejected these findings saying (amongst other things) The call handler advised that 
the claim should not be cancelled at that stage as this would result in our being responsible 
for any costs incurred to date At no point in the conversation was it mentioned that we 
would be responsible for any costs incurred to date whether or not the claim was cancelled 
or, whether it was allowed to continue. If this was the position, the call handler should have 
made this clear  she did not. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs D for taking the time to explain everything thats happened when dealing with the 
issue with the non-returnable part with Admiral. I understand it has been a stressful time for 
Mrs D. Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to 
this complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read 
and considered everything that has been provided.
Having carefully considered the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mrs D was misled by the 
Admiral representative in the way that she has described. Ill explain why. 
Ive listened to the call of 18 September 2023. At the start of the call, Mrs D confirmed she is 
calling to cancel a claim. The Admiral representative asked [Has the repairer] purchased 
any orders for the windscreen because if so you may be liable for costs if you cancel the 
claim. 
Mrs D is further informed If they paid for and theyve ordered it, and they cant send it back, 
thats when there will be costs on file Because we can cancel it, it just means youre 
liable if theyve ordered any parts between now and June and they cant for whatever 
reason return those parts then theyre going to have incurred a cost which will need paying 
and that will come out from the cost of the claim if you were claiming. If youre not claiming 
than the cost is going to refer to yourselves. 
Later in the call Mrs D asked the call handler whether Admiral would cover any costs on the 
claim. Mrs D is clearly informed If the claim proceeds to repair. If the claim doesnt proceed 
and they cant get a refund on those parts that means that the garage themselves have had 
to pay out of their pocket which they wont do so that means that cost is going to fall on 
yourselves. 
The Admiral representative clearly informed Mrs D on numerous occasions throughout the 
call that if the claim didnt proceed to repair, then the cost would need to be met for any part 
that had already been ordered. And that Mrs D would be liable for this cost. 
At the time of contacting Admiral Mrs D had already sold her car. So repairs could not have 
proceeded with Admiral in any event. The call with the Admiral representative makes no 
material difference to the question of liability for the ordered part. Mrs D became liable for 
this as soon as it was determined that the cost of this part couldnt be met by the claim- 
which is what she was told would happen.  
I appreciate Mrs Ds disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mrs D 
feeling stressed, and financially out of pocket. Although I appreciate the upset caused to Mrs 
D, I am satisfied Admirals actions have been reasonable, and in line with what wed expect. 
Because of this, I wont be asking Admiral to do anything in settlement of this complaint.
 My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman