DRN-4149937
The complaint
Mr W complains AXA Insurance Plc unfairly declined part of his landlord insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr W made a claim against his AXA landlord insurance policy. His property had been 
damaged by an escape of water. AXA accepted the claim. But Mr W was dissatisfied with 
various elements of its claim handling. 
In October 2022 AXA issued a response to a complaint from Mr W. It offered him £200 
compensation for inconvenience it had caused through delays to the claim. Under a different 
complaint record, another ombudsman at this service considered the issues relating to that 
final response. His final decision raised the compensation to £500. It also said AXA should 
consider against the terms of the policy, on sight of evidence, any costs Mr W had incurred 
for temporary measures or repairs. 
In March 2023 AXA issued a further complaint final response to Mr W. It relates to the same 
claim but addresses different issues. These include Mr Ws dissatisfaction with AXAs 
decision to decline his claim for replacement of a boiler and his frustration at its customer 
service. AXA continued to decline the boiler claim but offered £150 compensation for poor 
customer service. This final decision addresses the matters covered by the March 2023 final 
response. 
In April 2023 our investigator considered this complaint. She felt AXAs decision not to cover 
the boiler was fair and reasonable. She said it had already offered enough compensation to 
recognise the impact of any poor service. So she didnt recommend it do anything more. 
Mr W didnt accept that outcome. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr W and AXA provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Mr W paid for the replacement of the propertys boiler. He says it was damaged by the 
escape of water. AXA says the boiler itself was the source of the escape of water. So says 
under the terms of the policy it isnt covered.
Mr Ws policy covers loss or damage caused by escape of water from any fixed water or 
heating installation or from any domestic appliance. But the policy also excludes damage to 
the installation or appliance itself. Its this exclusion that AXAs relying on to decline Mr Ws 
claim for the boiler. 
Unfortunately Mr W had the boiler taken away by his plumber. So its no longer possible to 
examine it. But Ive considered the evidence that is available. 
AXAs loss adjuster visited the property. His report explains the damage to the property is 
the result of the failure of a pipe connected to the property. Mr Ws plumber provided a report 
that says he fitted a new like for like boiler and there is no longer anything leaking within 
the boiler.  
I accept its possible the leak was from ancillary pipes or connections around the boiler. And 
Ive considered Mr Ws point about the likeliness of the boilers water supply being powerful 
enough to be the primary cause of damage. But his plumbers report implies there was a 
leak from within the boiler itself. Hes the only individual, Im aware of, to have inspected the 
boiler. And without something to persuade me that leak was a caused by a different one 
outside the boiler, I think its most likely it was the primary cause of damage. That means its 
fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the exclusion to decline Mr Ws claim for the boiler 
replacement.   
I accept there has been some unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W by 
AXAs handling of the claim during the period this complaint considers. This includes some 
avoidable delays and poor communication.  But I agree with our investigator that £150 
compensation is enough to recognise the impact. So Im not going to require AXA to pay 
Mr W anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require AXA Insurance Plc to settle Mr Ws boiler claim, 
pay him any additional compensation or to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman