DRN-3989592
The complaint
Mr W says HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him incorrect information about the fees and clearing 
time for international cheques. 
What happened
Mr W opened an HSBC currency account in May 2022. He then made a number of calls 
through May and at the start of June checking the account details; the fees involved in 
paying in cheques and the timescales. The bank confirmed the cheques would need to be 
paid in within three months and that there may be fees charged by the third-party clearing 
bank but that it could not confirm what these may be. As both parties are familiar with the 
details of these calls I need not set them out in more detail here.
There was then a final call on 9 June 2022 from one of the banks branches. Mr W says on 
this call he was told there would be no costs associated with paying in the cheques and they 
would clear in five working days. But he was then charged fees of over £3,600 and the 
cheques took 20 working days to clear. Mr W says this meant he could not access his funds 
when he planned to and he lost out on a better exchange rate costing him around £12,700. 
He was also unable to redeem his mortgage as planned which created a further financial 
loss of around £600. Mr W wants HSBC to cover these financial losses.
HSBC has explained calls from branches are not recorded but it says, however, it would not 
have told Mr W the cheques would clear in five days. It says it isnt liable for any losses      
Mr W incurred relating to exchange rate movement, cheque processing fees or additional 
mortgage interest. It says the branch staff member that called Mr W is experienced and he is 
aware that timescales for international cheques clearance are not advised by branch at the 
time of deposit as a matter of policy.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said it was clear from the call 
recordings we had that Mr W wanted to be sure he had all the right information before 
paying in the cheques. But from the available evidence she could not see that HSBC had 
told Mr W there would be no fees or that the clearing period was five days. She was satisfied 
it had explained the third-party clearing bank may charge fees and it could not control this. 
And she had not heard it confirm the timescales on the available calls. She said the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ws currency account make clear that third-party fees may have to be 
paid, and also that there may be a wait to ensure cheques are not returned unpaid. 
Unhappy with this assessment Mr W asked for an ombudsmans review. He maintains he 
was told by the branch, when it called back on 9 June 2022, that there would be no fees and 
the clearing time would be five working days. He has suffered significant financial losses as 
a result of being misinformed by HSBC and is concerned there is no recording for the one 
key call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here) I have reached my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I think is most likely 
based on the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint, Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr W called the bank on 9 June 2022 to be sure he fully understood the 
process for banking international cheques once he was back in the UK. As the adviser he 
spoke to could not answer all his questions she arranged for a call back from the branch he 
would be depositing the cheques at. 
This call is not available as HSBC does not record branch calls. I can understand that this is 
very frustrating for Mr W, but I have seen no evidence that it is for any other reason than this 
is HSBCs policy. 
I dont doubt Mr Ws testimony that he was told there would be no fees and a five-day 
timescale to be his honest recollection of the call. But the banks evidence is contradictory as 
it says its policy is for branches to never provide timescales for international cheque 
clearance and the branch employee that called Mr W is experienced. Without a call 
recording I cannot know what was said on the call, so I have gone on to consider the wider 
circumstances. 
On an earlier call on 30 May 2022 HSBC confirmed to Mr W that there may be fees charged 
by the third-party clearing bank  and the terms and conditions of the currency account 
make clear this is the case. So from the available evidence I think the bank had correctly 
advised Mr W that he may incur fees, and that it could not control this or confirm them.
With regards the five-day timescale, I cannot find any reference to this on any of the earlier 
calls, nor is this a service level set out in the terms and conditions. The banks policy not to 
give customers a timescale for international cheque clearance suggests to me it is unlikely a 
branch member committed to this timescale.
Overall, based on the available evidence, I cannot conclude that HSBC misinformed Mr W. 
This means I cannot hold it liable for any of the losses Mr W has outlined. I know this will be 
very disappointing for Mr W but I have to reach my decision based on the available 
evidence. I can see he took steps to research the process before using it, but ultimately the 
terms and conditions set out how HSBC handles international cheques, and the bank has 
acted in line with those provisions. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman