DRN-3341561
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as AA Loans, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 36-month loan for £10,000 that Bank of Ireland provided to Mr M 
on 22 February 2021. The monthly repayments were £311.64.
Mr M says he was the victim of a cryptocurrency investment fraud at the time he took out this 
loan. He says Bank of Irelands affordability checks were not adequate. Had they been he 
wouldnt have been given the loan, and the investment scam would have been exposed 
sooner. He wants the outstanding loan balance to be written off.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said Bank of Irelands checks were 
proportionate and it made a fair lending decision based on the results. 
Mr M disagreed saying Bank of Irelands projected disposable income of £675 was 
unreasonable based on his personal circumstances and the loan repayments were not 
affordable.  He applied for this loan with the investment income in mind and the bank never 
checked this.
He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Bank of Ireland complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that    
Mr M would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Bank of Ireland act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Bank of Ireland to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bank of Ireland had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this 
meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause    
Mr M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Bank of Ireland to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Bank of Ireland has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some 
information from Mr M. It asked for his gross annual income, his net monthly income 
(£3,125) and his rent/mortgage costs (£0). It asked about his employment status. It 
completed an income verification check with a third-party and made an assumption about his 
living costs. To clarify, these were £675 - not the disposable income. It carried out a credit 
check to understand his credit history and his existing credit commitments. Bank of Ireland 
has not shared the credit check but it has summarised the results in its submission. It asked 
about the purpose of the loan which was Mr M said was home improvements. Based on 
these checks Bank of Ireland thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate  given it was Mr Ms first loan with Bank of Ireland 
and his credit check showed no adverse entries and that he had very little debt at the time 
(less than £100).  And I think Bank of Ireland made a fair lending decision based on the 
results of the checks. 
Mr M says he applied on the basis of his investment income, and this wasnt checked. He 
declared a net monthly income of £3,125 and the lender reduced this to £1,800 based on its 
checks so I cant see it considered any future investment income in its assessment. Mr M 
also says rent for a family of four would be at least £1,000 so how could he have sufficient 
disposable income. But he declared he had no rent or mortgage cost  and Bank of Ireland 
checked that he had no mortgage account on his credit file verifying this in part. As Mr M had 
almost no other credit giving this loan to Mr M did not put him in the position whereby he 
would need to spend a significant portion of his income on servicing his debt which may have been unsustainable. The checks showed no indicators that Mr M was under financial 
pressure. 
Mr M also raised that he had already taken out another large loan on the same date. But that 
wouldnt have appeared on his credit file and so I cant reasonably expect the lender to have 
been aware of, or respond to, this.
In the round I dont think Bank of Ireland was wrong to lend to Mr M.   
Ive also thought about whether Bank of Ireland acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did. Mr M has told us he lost the proceeds of the loan as 
he was the victim of investment fraud. I am sorry he has been through this, but for the 
reasons set out above I disagree that Bank of Ireland ought to have acted differently and that 
this may have prevented his loss. 
I have also looked at how Bank of Ireland responded when Mr M had problems making his 
repayments as a result of the investment fraud. Its actions were fair. It gave him a three-
month payment break and then tried to agree an affordable repayment plan. I understand  
Mr M wanted to wait until this complaint was resolved before agreeing this. I would urge him 
to now contact Bank of Ireland to try to agree a suitable payment plan. I would remind the 
bank of its obligations to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically if he is now having 
financial difficulties. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman