DRN-4390274
The complaint
Miss F complains that the Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) mis-sold her a critical 
illness policy. 
What happened
Miss F took out a new mortgage in 2018. Shes unhappy with the advice she received from 
MAB which led to her cancelling the critical illness policy she already had in place. 
Shortly after taking out the new policy Miss F was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. Her 
claim was declined by the underwriter of the policy because she hadnt disclosed details of 
medical treatment in 2016. 
Miss F complained to MAB. In summary, she said she was pressured into the sale and the 
advisor didnt take into account her best interests. She said she was told that it would be 
more convenient to have all her policies through one provider and feels the advice was 
motivated by commission. Miss F also says she was told to cancel her work policy and that 
the policy she originally held would have covered her diagnosis of MS. 
MAB said Miss F was provided with a suitable recommendation taking into account her 
demands and needs. They didnt think the policy was unsuitable for her and didnt think the 
advisor was responsible for the claim being declined. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. He didnt 
think there was evidence Miss F had been pressured into taking out the policy and, overall, 
he thought the advice was fair and reasonable which made it suitable for Miss F. 
Miss F didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She highlighted the 
benefits she held through work and the amount of commission the advisor received based 
on the recommendation. She said the evidence pointed to unsuitable advice and a 
pressured sale as the advisor had a significant gain in terms of commission. She didnt think 
it was necessary to take out a new critical illness policy and she should have retained the 
existing policy, which she thought would have covered her diagnosis of MS. In summary, 
she said the advisor provided unsuitable advice for a number of reasons. These further 
points were reviewed by a different investigator, but they didnt change his thoughts about 
the overall outcome of the complaint.  
So, I need to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive summarised the background to this complaint and Miss Fs submissions to us, Ive 
carefully considered all thats been said and sent to us. Within my decision though, I havent 
commented on each point thats been raised and nor do our rules require me to do so. 
Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the main issues which are central to the outcome of 
this complaint.
MAB provided Miss F with advice. The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that they 
needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for her demands and needs. And they needed 
to provide her with clear, fair and non-misleading information.
Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint because:
Ive seen no compelling or persuasive evidence that Miss F was pressured by the 
advisor to take out the policy in the way shes described or that aggressive and high-
pressure sales tactics were employed. The weight of the evidence suggests to me 
that its most likely that Miss F reviewed her financial circumstances and protection 
arrangements as she was taking on a significant new financial commitment. I dont 
think anything in the documentation suggests that it was presented to her as 
compulsory or that she had to take cover through a particular provider. 
Miss F declined some income protection products offered and the notes indicate that 
she was looking into other options for the only compulsory insurance required by her 
mortgage. She also was able to discuss her concerns about the affordability of the 
policies with the advisor, which led to a decision to reduce the level of cover to bring 
the price within Miss F wanted to pay. So, this further persuades me Miss F was 
engaged with the sales process, was able to discuss the advice with MAB and was 
aware that she didnt have to take out the new policy if she didnt want to. 
Miss F cancelled the CIC policy she held and took out a new one which was around 
double the price. However, I dont think the advisors recommendation was 
unsuitable bearing in mind the demands and needs recorded. I dont think it was 
unreasonable to recommend a policy which matched the mortgage term, even if 
Miss F had plans to ultimately shorten her mortgage term or sell her other property. 
Based on the information I have I dont think the benefits she had via work would 
have offered the same level of cover. And, the new policy had some additional 
features which the existing policy didnt. Overall, I think MAB recommended a policy 
which offered a reasonable level of cover at a price she could afford. 
I appreciate that its very disappointing for Miss F that she could have successfully 
claimed under her previous policy had it remained in force. But, based on the 
available evidence, I dont think the advisor acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Miss F says that she was told to cancel her work policies as they were worthless and 
would free up money to spend on the policies the advisor recommended. Theres no 
record of such a conversation taking place. But, in any event, Miss F didnt cancel 
her work policies and Im pleased to see that she was able to make a successful 
claim. So, even if that advice was given, I dont think Miss F has lost out as a result.  
Based on the available evidence Im not persuaded that the advisor was motivated 
by commission and gave an unsuitable recommendation. I can see that the quotation 
referred to the commission payable and Miss F was provided with a detailed 
breakdown of the commission. So, I think Miss F had a fair opportunity to query this 
with the advisor if she felt that it had impacted on the products he recommended, or 
the overall advice given. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman