DRN-4305373
The complaint
Miss T, a sole trader, is unhappy that ClearBank Limited didnt do more to protect her money 
when she was deceived into making payments to a scammer.
What happened
Miss T received a phone call from someone claiming to be from Tide  a trading name of 
ClearBank Limited  who said that her Tide account had been compromised by unknown 
fraudsters who were attempting to withdraw large sums of money from it. Miss T asked how 
she could be sure the caller was from Tide, to which the caller responded that Miss T could 
check the number she was being called from and would see it was the same as the number 
on the back of her Tide card  which it was.
The caller then explained to Miss T that she needed to set up a safe account and move 
money from her Tide account to this new safe account. The caller sent Miss T a QR code 
which she had to approve to verify her identity  but which in actual fact the approval of 
which gave the scammer access to Miss Ts Tide account. 
Miss T was then asked to approve a transfer of £15,000 to the safe account, which 
appeared to be in her company name, and which she did. But the scammer explained that 
the transfer hadnt gone through and asked Miss T to repeat it, meaning that Miss T 
approved two transfers of £15,000, totalling £30,000.
Miss T later checked her Tide account and saw the payments had been made to an account 
which wasnt in her company name as shed believed. Miss T contacted Tide, at which point 
the scam was discovered. Tide tried to recover the money for Miss T, but the scammer had 
already removed the funds from the recipient account, meaning no money was left to be 
recovered. Miss T wasnt happy about what had happened, so she raised a complaint.
Tide responded and explained that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by processing the 
two payments shed authorised to the scammers as they had. But they did accept that they 
could have acted more quickly to try to recover the money from the scammer than they did, 
and that if they had, it was likely that £7,459 of Miss Ts money which hadnt been moved 
from the scammers account at that time could have been recovered. 
Tide apologised to Miss T for this and paid the £7,459 to her, along 8% interest on that 
amount. And Tide made a further payment of £150 to Miss T as compensation for the upset 
and inconvenience shed incurred because they hadnt received that portion of her money as 
they should have done. Miss T wasnt satisfied with Tides response, so she referred her 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the first payment of £15,000 was 
one which should reasonably have been considered potentially suspicious by Tide such that 
they shouldnt have allowed the payment to complete without first contacting Miss T. And our 
investigator felt that if Tide had contacted Miss T before processing the payment, it was 
likely the scam would have been uncovered such that Miss T wouldnt have lost her money. 
Our investigator therefore recommended that Tide should reimburse Miss T the remaining 
£22,541 along with 8% interest on that amount. And our investigator also said that Tide 
should pay further compensation of £500 to Miss T for the distress and inconvenience their 
failure to block the attempted payments had caused. Tide didnt agree with the view of this 
complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
It isnt in dispute that Miss T was the victim of a sophisticated scam here of a type commonly 
known as a safe account scam. In this type of scam, the scammer deceives the victim into 
believing that they are calling from their bank. The scammer then convinces the victim that a 
potentially dangerous situation has arisen whereby the victim might lose the money in their 
account to fraudsters attempting to withdraw it, if they dont act quickly to move the money to 
a safe account under the instruct of the scammer.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank such as Tide is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, in 
instances where the customer made payments because of the actions of a scammer, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer, even though the 
customer authorised the payments.
For example, in this instance, this could be if Tide should fairly have recognised that the 
payments Miss T was deceived into making were potentially scam payments such that they 
reasonably shouldnt have processed the payments before contacting Miss T and 
questioning her about them.
Ive therefore considered how Miss T managed and maintained her Tide account before the 
scam took place. And having done so, I feel that the first payment of £15,000 that Miss T 
made on the instruction of the scammer should have been flagged as suspicious by Tide, 
such that it, and the second payment of £15,000, shouldnt have been processed by them 
before contacting Miss T.
I take this position because scams of this type have certain characteristics which include that 
the victim is coerced into making larger than usual payments to a brand-new payee, which 
theyve never made or received payments from previously. And this is exactly what 
happened in this instance. 
Indeed, the payment amount of £15,000 was by some distance the largest ever outbound 
payment made on the account  discounting a larger payment that was made by Tide 
themselves as part of an account migration process for Miss T. And Miss T made two 
consecutive payments of £15,000 to a brand-new payee. And given the clear similarity of 
these payments with how scams of this type are typically perpetuated, I feel that the specifics of this account activity should have been considered suspicious by Tide, such that 
they should have attempted to intervene in response to the first of these payments.
Tide dont agree with my position here and contend that it isnt reasonable to expect high 
value payments on a business account being made to a new payee to be blocked pending 
customer contact. And Tide say that this is because such payments are relatively normal 
business activity and to block all such payments would result in many legitimate business 
payments being blocked, to the detriment of their business account holders. 
But I continue to feel that these payments should have been considered as suspicious by 
Tide, for the reasons explained above. And I dont feel that a business account holder should 
reasonably receive a reduced form of potential scam protection, as Tide appear to imply 
here, simply because theyre a business account holder rather than a personal account 
holder. And I also dont accept that the particulars of these payments  each being made to 
a brand-new payee and each being of a payment amount 50% larger than any previous valid 
outgoing payment on the account  happens with the regularity that Tide seem to suggest. 
I acknowledge that Miss T had made large payments out of her account in the past. Most 
notably, three payments of £10,000 made on the same day to an account in her name. Prior 
to the £15,000 payments under consideration, these appear to have been the largest valid 
outbound payments on the account. The question of whether these £10,000 payments 
should have been considered suspicious by Tide is outside the remit of this complaint. But 
given that this flurry of payments occurred on one day, it seems to have been a one-off 
activity and I dont feel it establishes a pattern of Miss T making large payments regularly, 
such that the larger £15,000 payments shouldnt have been considered suspicious.
Tide have also said that even if they had blocked the payment and tried to intervene, Miss T 
was already on a call with the scammer, who she believed was Tide, such that they wouldnt 
have been able to speak with her. Tide have also explained that if they did intervene, they 
would only have blocked the payment, not the account. And Tide feels the scammer could 
have explained to Miss T that the payment had been picked up by Tides fraud prevention 
system and could have instructed Miss T to circumnavigate this by instructing the transfer as 
several smaller amounts, which wouldnt have been considered suspicious.
But I dont feel that any reasonable bank should allow a payment of any amount to be made 
to a particular payee, if that bank already has a block on a payment to that payee it feels is 
suspicious and which it hasnt yet been able to speak with its customer about  as was the 
case in this instance. Additionally, Tide wouldnt have been restricted to attempting to 
contact Miss T by telephone, but could have sent emails or text messages which Miss T may 
have been able to receive while on the call, or secure messages in their app.
Furthermore, I feel that if Tide had contacted Miss T in any of the ways described above, 
and had blocked payments to the new payee until it had done so, it would have been the 
case that Miss T would have recognised that the scammer wasnt in fact from Tide and that 
therefore the attempted scam would have been uncovered so that Miss T wouldnt have lost 
the money that she did. And ultimately, this means that I dont feel that Tide did do enough 
to protect Miss Ts money in this instance.
Finally, Ive considered whether Miss T should reasonably have acted differently than she 
did when subject to the scam. Notably, Miss T did question the caller at first, but the 
scammer overcame Miss Ts concerns by referring her to the phone number they were 
calling from, which was a Tide number. And, having created a sense of trust with Miss T, the 
scammer then created a sense of urgency and panic that Miss T might lose the balance of 
her account if she didnt act as instructed. And in this scenario, I dont feel its reasonable to expect Miss T, having been deceived into believing the caller was from Tide, to have 
recognised that she was being scammed and to have reacted to it in a different way.
Tide dont agree with my position here and feel Miss T should have asked why, for instance, 
a Tide employee speaking with her on the phone wanted to verify her identity via a sent QR 
code rather than asking her ID verification questions verbally, such as her date of birth. I can 
appreciate Tides point here, to a degree. And if Miss T had been calm and unflustered then 
I agree it might have been reasonable to have expected her to be more insightful about what 
might have been happening.
But as explained above, the intention of scams of this type is to create a situation where the 
victim trusts the scammer and isnt calm and unflustered but is panicked and must act 
quickly. And I dont feel that Miss T being asked to verify her identity via a QR code is much 
different to similar methods of ID verification  such as one-time passcodes  that are 
increasingly used by UK banks including, as Miss T had confirmed, the bank with which she 
holds her personal current account. Additionally, the verification email which contained the 
QR code sent by Tide, which allowed the scammer access to Miss Ts account, simply 
states verification process, and doesnt make it clear what specifically the verification is for.
All of which means that Ill be upholding this complaint in Miss Ts favour and instructing Tide 
to reimburse the £22,541 to her that remains outstanding, along with 8% interest. This is 
because I dont feel Miss T acted negligently while being scammed, because I dont feel that 
Tide intervened before processing the payments as they reasonably should have, and 
because I feel that had Tide intervened, its highly likely the scam would have been 
uncovered and that Miss T wouldnt have lost her money.
Finally, Ill also be instructing Tide to make a payment of £500 to Miss T  in addition to the 
£150 theyve already paid  as compensation for distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced surrounding this matter.
In arriving at this amount, Ive considered the significant upset, worry, and trouble Miss T 
incurred which I feel is self-evident, given the nature of this complaint and the amount of 
money involved, and which Miss T has described herself to this service, and which I feel was 
exacerbated due to the impact of these events to Miss Ts business. And Ive also 
considered the general framework which this service uses when assessing compensation 
amounts for distress and inconvenience  details of which are on this services website.   
I realise this wont be the outcome Tide were wanting, but I hope theyll understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Tide must reimburse Miss T the remaining balance of £22,541 that she lost, plus 8% interest 
calculated from the date of loss to the date of payment.
Tide must also make a further payment of £500 to Miss T.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against ClearBank Limited on the basis 
explained above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman