DRN-1596806
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy at how British Gas Insurance Limited dealt with the cancellation of his home 
emergency cover.
What happened
Mr R contacted British Gas on 23 September 2019 to cancel his home emergency cover. But 
British Gas didnt cancel it. They renewed the policy instead and, on 1 October, collected the 
£195.25 premium from Mr Rs bank account.
British Gas initially refunded Mr R £192.54  a pro-rata refund because theyd provided 
cover Mr R didnt want for a few days. Mr R contacted British Gas about this and they 
eventually issued a refund for the remaining £2.71. But they sent the £2.71 to the wrong 
address, so it took some time for Mr R to receive his full refund.
Mr R has complained that British Gas didnt cancel his policy when asked, and then didnt 
deal with the refund of the premium theyd incorrectly taken correctly. Hes also unhappy 
with how he was dealt with when he spoke British Gas about this.
Our investigator found British Gas hadnt cancelled the policy when they shouldve, and that 
they didnt deal with the premium refund effectively. He also found that British Gas couldve 
done better when they spoke to Mr R.
Mr R received £70 compensation from British Gas, but the investigator said this wasnt 
enough for the trouble and upset hed been caused. He recommended that British Gas pay 
Mr R an additional £80, taking the total payment to £150.
British Gas didnt agree with the investigator. While they agree they couldve done better, 
they feel that the compensation theyve already paid Mr R is sufficient for the inconvenience 
hed been caused. So theyve asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive seen that British Gas sent Mr R an (undated) renewal letter for his home emergency 
policy. This confirmed the policy was due for renewal on 26 September 2019 at a cost of 
£195.25. The letter also said British Gas would automatically renew the policy unless Mr R 
called to cancel before your agreement ends. British Gass case notes show that Mr R 
called to cancel on 23 September.
But British Gas renewed the policy and collected the renewal. And when British Gas 
actioned the cancellation request on 1 October, they took that to be the cancellation date 
and issued a pro-rata refund. On 3 October, British Gas wrote to Mr R to tell him they were refunding him £192.54. Mr R called them about the refund on multiple occasions, and it 
wasnt until 21 October that British Gas agreed to refund the additional £2.71.
British Gass case notes for 14 October show the advisor [Mr R] spoke to didnt understand 
what was going on. The customer service advisor had lack of training. The case notes from 
21 October also say that Mr R hadnt received the payment of £195.25 and that he was 
about to move house so needed the refund issuing urgently.
The premium was collected by direct debit, so Id reasonably expect British Gas to reverse 
the transaction and refund the premium direct to Mr Rs account. This is what Mr R was 
originally told would happen. Instead British Gas issued the refund by cheque. The original 
cheque for £192.54 was cancelled (because Mr R never received it) and re-issued to Mr R 
on 31 October. This was sent to his new address. But the cheque for £2.71 issued on 22 
October was sent to Mr Rs old address. It wasnt until December that British Gas sent this 
cheque to the correct address.
British Gas originally agreed to compensate Mr R £40 for the poor service theyd provided, 
but they only sent him £30. Mr R contacted British Gas about this on 30 October. British Gas 
sent him another cheque for the £40 compensation - to his old address. Again, it was 
December before the cheque was sent to the correct address. These two payments make up 
the £70 Mr R has already received from British Gas.
Putting things right
If this was just a problem with cancellation thatd been sorted quickly, Id agree with British 
Gas that the compensation theyd already paid was sufficient. But it was more than a simple 
error that was quickly resolved. Not only did British Gas only initially issue the pro-rata 
refund, without any explanation why, it took multiple phone calls before they agreed to 
refund the remaining premium.
Mr R told British Gas his new address and they sent a cheque to here. But they also 
managed to send multiple cheques to the wrong address after this. Add to that the untrained 
staff member who told Mr R they didnt know what was happening and Mr Rs personal 
circumstances (hed just moved home and had a new baby), and I agree he suffered more 
trouble, upset and inconvenience than British Gas have accounted for.
So, for the reasons stated, I agree with the investigator that British Gas should pay Mr R an 
additional £80 to compensate him for the impact of their service.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Rs complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited 
must follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman