DRN-1904851
The complaint
Ms W complains that UKI hasnt fairly dealt with her claim for water damage caused by a 
leak. Ms W made two claims about this, both under her home insurance.
What happened
Ms W contacted UKI in March 2019 as shed noticed signs of water damage in her bathroom 
and the adjacent bedroom. UKI agreed that it would look at the claim, and sent a specialist 
out to look at the damage. He said the floor was dry and that although there were signs of 
old water damage, this could have occurred gradually. That isnt something Ms Ws policy 
covered her for. Ms W had the problem assessed by two plumbers  but neither of them 
found a current leak. UKI said without an identified cause of damage covered by her policy, it 
wouldnt pay for any repairs.
Ms W accepted this, but then in October 2019 discovered much more significant signs of 
damage and contacted UKI again. She sent UKI a video that showed the waste pipe under 
the bath was leaking.
After some investigation UKI agreed to meet the claim.
Ms W challenged the extent of the work UKI was going to do as some of it, she thought, was 
unnecessary. And she was unhappy that shed been told she could choose tiles costing up 
to £35 a square meter, when UKI said it would only pay £20.
Ms W complained about both the scope of work and UKIs failure to identify the problem in 
March, which she feels made everything much worse. And she thought the new claim had 
been handled poorly.
UKI revisited the scope of work and agreed it would pay the higher allowance for the tiles. It 
said it would get a specialist in to deal with Ms Ws carpets if necessary, and apologised for 
delaying the October claim unnecessarily by about three weeks. It said it would pay Ms W 
£300 - £30 for the cost of the calls shed made and £270 for the inconvenience it had 
caused.
Ms W didnt think that was enough, and UKI agreed to pay half the cost of the new bathroom 
fittings shed sourced.
Ms W said, to make up for the way UKI had behaved, it should pay for all the new bathroom 
white goods and not charge the excess contained in her policy - £450.
UKI didnt change its offer so Ms W brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
said she thought UKI had done enough to make up for its shortcomings.
Ms W doesnt agree, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to ask UKI to do more than it already has. I realise this will be disappointing for 
Ms W, but Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Handling the claims
I accept that there might have been a leak that started some time before March 2019, when 
Ms W first noticed some water damage. But not all water damage is caused by whats called 
an insurable event  so in some instances a claim wont be accepted. In March, it seems 
from the reports Ive read that the floor under the bath was dry although there were signs of 
water damage  mould etc. And UKIs contractor thought it was possibly old damage that 
had built up gradually  maybe from failed sealant. But  crucially  he didnt find a leak at 
the time.
UKI says Ms W had two plumbers out to look at the problem but they didnt find an ongoing 
leak either.
Taking everything into account, I dont think it was unfair for UKI to conclude in March that 
the damage wasnt caused by an event covered under Ms Ws policy.
It was about seven months later that substantial damage was discovered  and a leak in the 
waste pipe under the bath. Ms W says this must have been happening all the time, and 
UKI\s refusal to repair the damage in March made things much worse. I cant agree with that 
as there doesnt seem to be any evidence of an ongoing leak in March. 
Of course the leak might have been in existence, but in that case it went unidentified by 
three different contractors  two of whom were working for Ms W. It also might have started 
soon after. We simply dont know.
The right thing for UKI to do now is repair the damage that exists, since  its accepted the 
later claim. And thats what it says it will do. 
Stress and inconvenience
Ms W doesnt think the compensation UKI has offered her is enough. I do understand why 
she says its UKIs fault that she needs more repairs done than might otherwise have been 
needed, but Im afraid that there isnt enough evidence for me to agree to that. So I wouldnt 
ask UKI to compensate her for this.
UKI has said its not provided the standard of service it should have since the second claim 
started. Its said it will pay £300 for Ms Ws phone bill and the delays it caused, and the 
confusion caused over scoping the work. And as a gesture of goodwill it says it will pay for 
50% (£283) of the cost of the new white goods in the bathroom, although these arent part of 
the claim, as the original items didnt need replacing. 
Ms W wants UKI to pay for all the white goods and cancel the £450 excess shed required to 
pay under the terms and conditions of her policy. That would bring the total compensation to 
just under £1,300. Im not going to ask UKI to pay this as I think the amount already offered 
fairly reflects the stress and inconvenience UKI has been responsible for.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman