DRN-3733585
The complaint
Miss M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave her a line of credit without carrying out 
proper affordability checks. Had it carried out further checks it wouldve discovered Miss M 
had a number of outstanding payday loans. 
What happened
Miss M approached Drafty for a running credit facility in June 2018. Miss M was given a 
facility with a £660 credit limit. The credit limit was increased to £720 in December 2018. 
Drafty has told the Financial Ombudsman the account was terminated in April 2019 and as 
of September 2022 an outstanding balance of £790.02 remains due to be paid. 
Miss M was given a running credit account where she could either request funds up to her 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. She was also 
able to borrow further, up to the credit limit, as and when she repaid what was owed. To be 
clear, Miss M was not given a payday loan.
 
In Draftys first final response letter issued in May 2022 it explained the information it had 
gathered from Miss M before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated 
monthly repayment, Miss M was likely to be able to afford the credit facility. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss Ms referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ms complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Miss M was 
likely to be able to afford to service the facility. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have 
initially approved the facility.
The adjudicator also explained Drafty had an obligation to monitor the facility. Having 
reviewed, the way Miss M borrowed and repaid the facility, the adjudicator couldnt see any 
indicators of financial difficulties. 
Miss M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Ive summarised her 
comments below;
Drafty ought to have completed further enquires to find out what the 9 active 
accounts were and how her total debt of £3,100 was constructed which were shown 
in its credit report. 
The previous default Drafty knew about was evidence Miss M had problems repaying 
previous debts. 
This amount of debt ought to have alerted Drafty that Miss M was having financial 
difficulties. 
Although she had no recent defaults, Miss M was struggling to meet her existing 
credit commitments. 
Miss M opened the line of credit in order to make ends meet. 
Miss Ms monthly disposable income was not £950  when she filled out the form she 
only provided her priority expenses. 
Draftys checks needed to go further before the line of credit was approved. 
The adjudicator went back to Miss M and explained why these comments hadnt changed 
her mind about the case. 
Drafty didnt provide any further comments for consideration after the adjudicator issued her 
assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in 
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Miss Ms 
Drafty facility. 
As explained, Miss M was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Miss M would be able to both service and then repay the facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Draft also needed to monitor Miss Ms repayment record for any sign that she 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Draftys checks before
providing this facility to Miss M were proportionate taking all of the circumstances into 
account and Ive explained why below. 
As explained, Miss M wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay all of what she
borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. Instead, she was given a facility 
where there was an expectation that shed repay what was borrowed plus the interest due 
within a reasonable period of time. What constitutes a reasonable period of time is laid out in 
the regulations but its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be 
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.Miss M was granted a facility with Drafty with a £660 limit. In the credit agreement, a 
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the potential cost of the facility to Miss M. This 
hypothetical situation assumed that Miss M did the following:
1. drew down the maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided, 
2. she kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Miss M repaid what she owed in 12 monthly instalments.
Had Miss M done that, shed have repaid Drafty a total of £881.75 meaning a total monthly 
repayment of around £73.48.   
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Miss M could make monthly repayments of around £74 at an 
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Miss Ms application after shed provided details of her monthly
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. It says the information it gathered
showed that Miss M would be able to comfortably make payments of around £74 a month.
In these circumstances it thought it was reasonable to lend. Having looked everything, I 
agree with this. 
Drafty has shown, that Miss M declared her monthly income was £1,650 and her declared 
monthly expenditure was £700. Based on its checks and what Miss M declared to Drafty, it 
calculated she had around £950 of disposable income each month in which to service and 
repay the facility. 
I appreciate that Miss M says the amount of monthly disposable income wasnt realistic and 
poses the questions why if she had so much, why she was asking for further credit.  She 
also suggests that she only provided details of her priority expenses, which opens the 
possibility that Miss M had other expenses that she didnt fully declare. However, based on 
what she declared to Drafty there was no indication that she had potentially underreported 
her circumstances. 
However, Drafty, given the terms of the agreement and this being at the start of the lending 
relationship it was, entirely reasonable, in my view for Drafty to rely on the figure given to it 
by Miss M so it wouldnt have thought it would need to verify the information she had 
provided and as this was the start of the lending relationship I do think it was reasonable for 
Drafty to have relied on what it was told. 
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results.
It is worth saying here that although Drafty carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely possible 
that the information Drafty received may not entirely reflect the information Miss Ms actual 
position in relation to other creditors. There could be for a number of reasons for this, such 
as Drafty only asking for certain pieces of information such as the number of active credit 
accounts. 
But what Drafty couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information 
it received  if necessary.  
Although, it showed that Miss M had a defaulted on a credit account, Drafty was told in the 
results that it received that this had occurred more than two years before this facility was approved. It also knew she had nine active credit accounts with outstanding balances of 
around £3,100. 
But this information alone, wouldnt have been enough, in my view to have prompted Drafty 
to carry out further checks because the default was recorded long enough ago, that it 
wouldnt have indicated Miss M was likely having current difficulties. 
I understand Miss M feels, given the information it received, Drafty shouldve done more with 
the credit check results, for example finding out how her debt was constructed and finding 
out further details about the 9 active credit accounts she had at the time. But, taking account 
that there wasnt a requirement for a credit search to be carried out  let alone one to a 
prescribed standard. I cant therefore say that Drafty made an error in only obtaining limited 
information because the information it did contain didnt suggest that Miss M had 
unsustainable levels of debt or recent repayment problems. 
In my view, based on what Drafty was provided with from the credit reference agency I dont 
think this wouldve prompted it to investigate Miss Ms circumstances further, because in the 
round it seemed that previously Miss M had some payment difficulties, but there wasnt 
anything in the results Drafty had that suggested these were ongoing or that the facility may 
have been unsustainable for her. 
I also accept Miss Ms actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the 
information provided, or the information Drafty obtained. But Drafty could only make its 
decision based on the information it had available at the time and Im satisfied at this time 
that it didnt need to do more in-depth checks in to her finances. It was reasonable for it to 
have relied on the information it had been given. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty asked Miss M, 
this was Miss Ms first facility and the other information  such as Miss Ms credit search 
results -  I dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to rely on the information Miss M 
provided. This means, I dont think Draftys checks needed to extend to obtaining copies of 
Miss Ms bank statement.
Monitoring the facility 
Ive also thought about the credit limit increase that took Miss Ms credit limit to £720 in 
December 2018. Drafty says in December 2018 it made enquires with Miss M and she 
declared her income remained the same, but her expenses had increased to £800. 
Again, I think it was reasonable, given it was only a few months into the lending for Drafty to 
have relied on what it was being told. In addition, there hadnt been any obvious repayment 
problems and the increase in the credit limit was fairly modest. So, taking everything 
together I also dont think it was unreasonable of Drafty to have increased the credit limit. 
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility or approved the 
credit limit increase, that wasnt the end of its obligations to Miss M. When when the facility 
was approved, Drafty was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and it issued 
guidance on this type of lending and what it says should be expected from lenders when 
granting these types of loans.
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficultiesBut, its also worth saying at this point that CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some 
indicators, which when present in a consumers circumstances, could be suggestive of 
potential financial difficulties. 
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Miss Ms repayment 
record and how she used the facility and step in if and when she showed signs of possible 
repayment difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought there werent any signs of financial distress during the time she used 
the facility mainly and Miss M made her last drawdown in January 2019.
Looking at the statement of account, Miss M drew down up to her limit by 12 June 2018. She 
made more than the minimum payment in July 2019 and then appears to have re-drawn 
back up to her limit in August 2019. By 15 October 2019 Miss M had fully repaid the facility 
and had a zero balance. 
In November 2018, she drew back up to her limit and then made her minimum payment as 
expected. Further drawdowns were processed in December 2018 because the credit limit 
had been increased. The minimum payment for the facility was then paid at the end of 
December 2018 and January 2019 before Miss M took her final drawdown on 
30 January 2019. 
Looking at the remaining statements of account, the facility was then frozen when no further 
payments were made until a repayment plan was agreed in April 2019 and this was paid 
until June 2020. 
In total, Miss M was actively using the facility for seven months, she successful repaid the 
facility in full on one occasion  by bringing the balance to zero and was at times paying 
more than the minimum expected by Drafty. Overall, I dont think I can fairly conclude that 
the manner in which Miss M used the facility ought to have prompted Drafty to have carried 
out further checks or to have stepped in sooner than it did in order to prevent her from 
drawing down on it further.
Im therefore not upholding Miss Ms complaint. 
An outstanding balance remains due and Id remind Drafty of its obligation to treat Miss M 
fairly and with forbearance when discussing a way forward. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman