DRN-4110477
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to prevent his losses
from a scam and have declined to make any refund of the lost funds.
What happened
What Mr H says
Mr H was approached through a personal contact to be part of an investment opportunity.
Meetings were held with the organisers of the investment.
The scheme was based on gifting, and it was explained to Mr H that levels of investors
made payments of £3,000 and as the investors increased, so did the profits for those
involved.
Mr H was persuaded to start investing in the scheme - the scheme organisers told Mr H they
preferred cash, but Mr H wanted to use bank transfers to have a record of the payments. He
made several payments from two of his RBS accounts. Mr H also received funds from
friends who wanted to get involved too. Mr H collected his friends payments and sent them
on to the schemes organisers. Investors used a nickname when recording who had paid
what monies into the scheme. Mr H questioned this but was persuaded it was usual practice.
Over time, Mr H became suspicious of the scheme and sought more details about it from the
organisers. He described how they became more difficult to contact as his suspicions grew
until the organisers eventually disappeared. Mr H realised that the scheme was a scam and
hed lost a significant amount of money that hed invested himself and those of his friends
whod also been persuaded to invest.
The following is a table of those payments. Theres some discrepancy between what Mr H
believes he lost and that recorded by RBS:
Date Sending A/C
(Mr Hs)Beneficiary A/C Amount Notes
14/03/17 9331 6,000 paid in cash
15/03/17 9331 2425 3,000 Mr Hs own funds
23/03/17 9366 9066 3,000 Other investors funds
23/03/17 9366 9066 3,000 Other investors funds
24/03/17 9366 9066 3,000 Other investors funds
14/06/17 9331 3,000 paid in
14/06/17 9366 9066 3,000 Other investors funds
15/6/17 9331 6949 3,000 Other investors funds
15/3/18 9331 2425 3,000 RBS records indicate
this claimed as a loss.
No record on the
account.
No date 3,000 cash Mr Hs own funds paid
to scammers
Total losses
claimed
Mr Hs own 
funds£21,000
£3,000 +
£3,000 cash
Mr H has claimed that he lost between £21,000 and £24,000 through this scam. But the
figures from the accounts dont indicate that, only a loss of £18,000, with £3,000 being of Mr
Hs own funds according to the statements. Mr H believed hed made two payments of
£3,000 on 15 March 2017 but his statements dont support this. Mr H was asked to provide
additional information to clarify his own investments and has confirmed the second £3,000
payment was made in cash, although its been difficult to establish a withdrawal from an
RBS account to show when this was done.
Mr H explained that by the summer of 2017 the schemes organisers had disappeared. He
attempted to trace them and eventually reported the scam to Action Fraud and to RBS in
2018. Mr H didnt receive any of his funds back and eventually complained to RBS in 2021
about their handling of his withdrawals.
Mr H believed that RBS had failed him by not identifying the payments hed been persuaded
to make that were part of a scam. He argued that they were out of character and RBS
should have acted to protect him.
What RBS have said
RBS first received notification about the payments in Spring 2018 and attempted to retrieve
the funds reported lost by Mr H but were unsuccessful. RBS declined to refund the losses
and closed the dispute at the end of 2018. They received Mr Hs complaint about the scam
in 2021 and after investigating it, declined to make any refund.
RBS argued that Mr H had made the payments himself and had confirmed hed read a
warning about scams prior to making the payments. RBS didnt believe theyd made any
errors and declined to make any refund.
The investigation so far
An investigator was appointed to look into Mr Hs complaint and both parties were asked to
provide information about the situation. Mr H made several submissions regarding his
complaint where he continued to believe that RBS had failed in its duty to protect his funds.
RBS submitted details of the dispute raised by Mr H and their attempts to retrieve his funds.
RBS maintained there was no bank error which is why they never offered to refund Mr Hslosses. RBS clarified that the payments were made prior to updated scam processes that
didnt start until 2019.
After reviewing the information provided by both parties, the investigator didnt think that Mr
H should receive a refund. He reasoned that the payments made from both of the accounts
werent unusual when compared to other account activity and he didnt think that RBS
should have identified them as part of a scam. He thought that RBS had acted appropriately
when trying to recover funds and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators outcome and made several comments about his
complaint which are summarised as:
That RBS failed in their duty to protect him, particularly in relation to the BSI: PAS
17271: 2017 code.
The payments were suspicious because they involved a series of new payees, and
o there was no prior record of the account holder spending money on similar
   goods/services.
o there were sudden changes to the operation of the account.
o it was financial activity that matches a known method of fraud or financial
   abuse.
Mr H wanted the Ombudsman to take into account the morality of the complaint.
Mr H believed that he was vulnerable because of his age (65 at the time of the scam)
which RBS should have considered.
If RBS had intervened, Mr H believed the scam would have been prevented.

Because no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a
decision.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Hs complaint on 31 March 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended not to uphold the complaint and offered both 
sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of that 
decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of Mr Hs loss and the impact this scam has had on him. The first matter
I need to address is the authorisation of the payments. Its common ground that Mr H sent
the payments from his RBS account to various scammers accounts.
So, even though he didnt intend to pay these fraudsters, the payments were authorised
under the Payment Services Regulations. RBS had an obligation to follow Mr Hs payment
instructions, and Mr H is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the
end of the story.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;codes of practice (including those referred to by Mr H in his submissions to this service);
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Mr H referred to the Banking Protocol and BSI: PAS 17271: 2017 and what they say about
protecting customers from harm. These protocols werent widely implemented until October
2017, but they codified what was already considered good industry practice. I consider at the
time of this scam, RBS should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. Those
factors include:
o A sudden increase in spending
o Transfers to other accounts
o A payment or series of payments to a new payee
o Financial activity that matches a known method of fraud or financial abuse.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether RBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr H when he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I
have considered the position carefully.
Losses claimed
This complaint contains funds from other investors who were persuaded to deposit their
money into the scheme via Mr H. Ive explained to Mr H that his claim can only be based on
his own losses and not those that belong to other people. Mr Hs position is that he is trying
to obtain a refund for himself and the other investors, but Im afraid that any funds that didnt
belong to him arent claimable through his own complaint. What that means here is that his
losses by bank transfer amount to £3,000 which was paid at the start of his relationship with
the scammers.
Did RBS fail to identify suspicious payments?
Mr H used two of his RBS accounts to send funds to the scammers and Ive looked at the
historical activity on them to understand how they normally operated. A payment of £3,000
doesnt particularly stand out on its own, including the £3,000 payment made by Mr H on 15
March 2017. So, I dont think it was reasonable for RBS to have identified that this payment
was so unusual that they should have prevented it.
There are a series of three payments of £3,000 made between 23  24 March 2017 that I
think do stand out, particularly the third payment  which would make £9,000 paid over two
days to the scammers. But, as these funds belonged to other investors, whether RBS should
have identified them or not isnt currently relevant to Mr Hs complaint. Thats because these
funds didnt belong to Mr H, so even if I thought RBS should have identified them assuspicious, I wouldnt recommend they be refunded.
Mr H has clarified that the second payment he made of his own funds was in cash, so for the
purposes of this complaint, withdrawal of £3,000 in cash wouldnt be something Id generally
expect RBS to question.
Scam Warning
I havent addressed the scam warning referred to by RBS as Im not currently recommending
any refund.
Vulnerability
Ive also considered the other factors raised by Mr H including the issue of vulnerability. Mr H
stated that his age made him vulnerable. Whilst age can be a factor, I dont think it is here.
Mr H was proactive throughout the time he was caught up in the scam, including arranging
for his friends to invest in the opportunity. Whilst he wasnt responsible for the loss, his
involvement doesnt appear to be of someone who was vulnerable at the time because of his
age.
Summary
Ive thought about the overall circumstances, and I have some sympathy for the situation
that Mr H found himself in. I think it worth reiterating that it was the scammers who took his
and his friends money. So, as far as RBS are concerned, I dont currently think it would be
fair or reasonable to ask them to refund him because his own payment wasnt so unusual
that it stood out.
I invited Mr H and RBS to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. RBS didnt respond and Mr H added the following:
He strongly disagreed that the other investors funds couldnt be considered under 
this complaint and the bank were slack in their checks before accepting funds.
He believed that RBS should have done more to chase the scammers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision 
confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
I will comment on the points raised by Mr H. Regarding his belief that all the other investors 
funds should be claimable under this complaint  Ive already set out my thoughts on this, so 
dont intend to repeat it here.
When Mr H commented about the bank being slack  I understood this to mean that they 
should have been more alive to the deposits they were receiving and were therefore 
responsible for their refund.
Whilst I dont think RBS should refund the other investors money, I do understand the point 
raised by Mr H  RBS have an obligation to police the money they take as deposits and 
who they deal with. But here, the number and size of the transactions made through Mr Hs account were relatively few and £3,000 wouldnt be usually regarded as suspicious (no 
doubt one of the reasons the scammers picked this amount), so I dont think they would 
have been of concern to RBS.
I cant comment on what happened with the receiving accounts, other than that RBS 
attempted to retrieve those funds at the time but were unsuccessful. The dates of the 
transactions mean that we cant consider a complaint about the operation of the receiving 
accounts. Thats because our rules didnt extend to them at that time. 
Mr Hs comments about chasing the scammers relates to the information held by RBS about 
them. Any criminal investigation into the conduct of those account holders is a matter solely 
for the law enforcement authorities, so I wouldnt be able to comment any further on this 
point.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman