DRN-2067291
The complaint
Mrs Ls unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plcs delays in opening a US Dollar (USD) currency 
account for her. Shes also unhappy with the service she was provided with while this issue 
was going on.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in July 2020, setting out whats happened in this case, and 
what I think a fair outcome would be.
In April 2019 Mrs L began the process of opening a USD currency account with HSBC. She 
understood from their website this process should only take two working days. But she 
encountered a number of problems. These problems included:
Being told the account couldnt be opened due to technical issues
Two weeks later was told that because she didnt live in the UK, she wasnt eligible to 
open the account, unless she made a trip to the UK
And after a month had passed by, she says she had no choice but to then transfer 
the pound sterling back to her country, and then transfer it to USD. She says the 
exchange rate was poor during this time, and if the account had been opened within 
two days she wouldnt have lost out.
Not being told the account had been opened.
She also says she was told she couldnt do a direct transfer from her UK account in 
USD  which is why she transferred the money back to her account
HSBC responded to the complaint. They said they could see the account opening took 
longer than the two working days theyd expect it to take. And they could see Mrs L was 
incorrectly told she couldnt have an account as she wasnt in the UK to make the 
application. HSBC said they were sorry for their errors and paid her £350 compensation in 
recognition of this.
Mrs L wasnt happy with this though. She replied to HSBC and explained the whole process 
had taken 33 days, and she hadnt been told when the account was opened. She also said 
HSBC should look closer at the loss in exchange rates on the amount she had converted. 
HSBC replied again and added that while they appreciate the delay in the opening of the 
account caused inconvenience, she could have sent an international payment. This would 
have sent the money directly from her sterling account  and negated any movement in the 
exchange rates.
Unhappy with this Mrs L asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so and 
decided the £350 was fair, and HSBC didnt need to do anything further.
Mrs L though didnt agree with this. In summary she said HSBC didnt help her try and sort 
this out, and if they had, then she wouldnt have been in this position. Because of this, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have accepted theyve made mistakes in the delay in opening Mrs Ls USD account. 
It should have been opened in two days but took over a month. HSBC were unable to 
provide a detailed explanation why there was such a delay when we asked  aside from 
system error, but they have agreed they did something wrong. So, because HSBC have 
accepted they did something wrong, I just need to decide if I think the £350 compensation 
awarded by them to Mrs L is a fair for the entire complaint.
For the reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont think this is fair. Based on what Ive seen so far, I 
think incorrect information was given by the relationship manager, as well as the delays in 
account opening, have caused Mrs L to lose out.
Mrs L was making a USD transfer from her account to help her daughter who was living 
overseas  but says she was prevented from doing so.
After looking into things we asked HSBC to provide us with Mrs Ls original complaint call. In 
it, she makes it clear that she says she was told by the relationship manager she couldnt 
transfer funds in USD from her existing account.
HSBC originally argued that its quite clear if youve got an account then you know you can 
transfer money abroad from that account  and shed done it before. HSBC made this point 
on multiple occasions, both to Mrs L, and to our service. But the evidence I had on file didnt 
show shed done this, so I asked for proof to demonstrate what I understood to be HSBCs 
key argument. Alongside this I also asked for evidence as to what Mrs L and the relationship 
manager had discussed  because so far HSBC had said there were no call recordings or 
call notes.
Having asked for this, HSBC said they needed to redact their argument about transferring 
money overseas, because it didnt apply in this situation  and they needed to understand 
more about what had been discussed between the relationship manager, and Mrs L. They 
also asked us to find out which relationship manager Mrs L said had given her the wrong 
information  which we did and passed along to them.
HSBC then provided their relationship managers recollections. Shes said theres no 
recording line in to the branch, so the information is provided from memory. The information 
is very detailed, explaining that Mrs L asked for information about rates for transfers, and 
wasnt happy with certain types of transfers. The relationship manager also says this is all 
she can recall from a conversation over a year ago, and she didnt get any information 
regarding Mrs Ls complaint back in 2019. But this information doesnt persuade me the 
relationship manager gave Mrs L the correct advice.
I find it very unusual for a relationship manager to remember conversations in such detail  
particularly when they have no records to prompt their memory, didnt know about the 
complaint previously, and its been over a year since the original conversation happened. 
Usually, in this situation, were told because of the passage of time  and given how many 
customers theyve helped since  they cant really remember. 
So, at this point HSBCs key argument of Mrs L having done these transfers before has been 
withdrawn  and they have no notes or call recordings to prove what was discussed. The 
conversation between this relationship manager, and Mrs L, also included the incorrect 
information about the USD currency account being opened. And it seems reasonable to conclude it was this same relationship manager who should have made Mrs L aware once 
the account had been opened  and didnt.
As things stand, I dont have sufficient evidence to conclusively prove who is right in this 
case  which means I need to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
To help me with this, I asked HSBC to explain why this relationship manager was able to 
remember this one conversation, from over a year ago, in such detail  because as Ive said 
above, its very unusual.
HSBC replied and said they didnt think it was appropriate to ask a relationship manager why 
they had a good memory.
Given this, Ive decided more likely than not Mrs L was given the wrong information by 
HSBC. I say this because it was the same relationship manager she spoke to who gave her 
the wrong information about the account opening. There are no call notes or recordings, and 
the relationship manager didnt know about this complaint before being asked to provide her 
comments  its also very unusual for someone to remember this level of detail after such a 
long time, and HSBC have decided not to explain this. Whereas Mrs Ls explanations of 
what happened were from the time. So, although Ive thought carefully about the relationship 
managers detailed comments, I think Mrs Ls recollections are likely to be more accurate.
Because of this, I think its likely to be appropriate for me to tell HSBC to review the transfer 
Mrs L has made, and make good any exchange rate losses  together with any fees that 
were charged which otherwise wouldnt have been.
To decide what date should be used for the exchange rate I think its appropriate to use two 
days after Mrs L applied for the USD currency account. Its clear her intentions were to open 
the account, and then transfer money  and Mrs L has been consistent in saying she wanted 
to get the transfer done.
Mrs L has argued that HSBC should have used the market rate, but HSBC have shown they 
would only have used their live rate. So, when completing these calculations HSBC should 
also provide a breakdown of their calculations to Mrs L for her records.
Its likely HSBC will need Mrs L to provide them with information to help them complete their 
calculations.
HSBC previously awarded £350 for the delay in opening the account. I think a total of £500 
compensation (including the £350 originally awarded) is appropriate. I say this because 
Mrs L has undoubtedly been caused distress by HSBC delaying the account opening, not 
telling her when it was opened, and by giving her the wrong information about transfer funds 
abroad.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs L replied and accepted my decision.
HSBC replied, and said:
Have we got proof of Mrs Ls losses
They note theres no mention of the account terms and conditions which say you can 
do transfers from your account, or the online information which says the same
They also said theyd need clarification on a portion of my decision around redressWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont currently have proof of Mrs Ls losses, but I think itd make sense for Mrs L to 
provide this if she accepts this decision.
Ive considered HSBCs argument about the terms and conditions, and the point about the 
online information, as its the first time theyve raised this. Having done so I dont think it 
makes any difference to the outcome Ive reached. I say that because the conclusion I came 
to in my provisional decision was that Mrs L had been given incorrect information by HSBCs 
relationship manager. I cant see why Mrs L would have then checked her account terms 
and conditions, or gone online, when shed been told she couldnt do what shed asked 
about  and I dont think it was unreasonable of Mrs L to rely on the advice shed been 
given. And, I note HSBC havent disputed my findings here that their relationship manager 
gave incorrect information to Mrs L.
Because this argument hasnt made me change my mind, I still uphold this complaint in line 
with my previous decision. Ive clarified the portion of redress in the below section.
Putting things right
Calculate how much Mrs L has lost due to completing the transfer the way she did 
(UK, to Taiwan, to the US), against completing the transfer from the USD currency 
account from the date it should have opened
Refund this amount to Mrs L  along with any fees she otherwise wouldnt have 
incurred
Pay Mrs L a total of £500 compensation  HSBC can deduct the £350 already 
offered if this has been paid
HSBC should also provide a breakdown of how theyve calculated the total redress due to 
Mrs L.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to carry out the actions in the 
Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman