DRN-3140072
The complaint
Miss R complains that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd mis-sold her a motor insurance 
policy. Miss R is represented in this matter by a family member, Mr C. 
What happened
Miss R took out a telematics policy through Right Choice after making an application on an 
online comparison site. But Miss R said she wasnt made aware of the costs involved or that 
the policy had mileage restrictions. She said she couldnt read the policy documents on her 
phone screen. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Right 
Choice had made the charges clear to Miss R before she bought the policy. He thought the 
mileage restrictions were set out clearly. He thought Miss R could have cancelled the policy 
within the cooling off period if it didnt suit her needs. And he thought Right Choice wasnt 
responsible for Miss R viewing the policy on her phone screen as it had made her policy 
documents otherwise available. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view, and so the complaint was passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that taking out a first insurance policy must have been a daunting and 
confusing task for Miss R. She applied for a policy through an online comparison site. She 
was directed to a broker and then her policy was provided by an insurer. The broker has 
since been bought by Right Choice, so Ill refer to it throughout. Miss R has also raised a 
complaint against her insurer, but I cant consider that here as its a separate business. 
Mr C has raised a number of concerns about how the insurance industry works, particularly 
in connection with young drivers. But I cant consider those concerns here. Our investigator 
has already explained that we arent the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
and so we dont regulate businesses or change the way they are run. Our role is to consider 
individual complaints and whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably in the 
particular circumstances. 
Mr C said he had further representations to make on Miss Rs behalf. But I cant see that he 
has provided further evidence for me to consider following the investigators view. 
Miss R thought Right Choices charges werent made clear before she bought her policy. 
The charges were a telematics connection charge of £185 and a brokers fee. She was also 
unhappy that there was a restriction on her mileage. So Ive looked at Miss Rs customer 
journey to see if she was given sufficient information about the charges and the mileage 
before she decided to buy her policy. 
Miss R completed an application on an online comparison site. She was then directed to 
Right Choices site. She then had to agree that she had read and understood the terms and 
conditions before the policy could commence. These included Right Choices terms of 
business. 
I think the terms of business makes it clear that there will be a telematics installation fee of 
£185 and a brokers fee for arranging the policy. Miss R had stated her expected annual 
mileage on the comparison site. I think the telematics terms and conditions made it very 
clear that any additional mileage would have to be purchased. These state:
You must ensure that your policy includes sufficient mileage for the use of the vehicle 
throughout the policy term. If the vehicle is likely to exceed the agreed annual mileage, we 
will contact you. Once the included mileage has been exceeded, additional miles must be 
purchased if the vehicle will continue to be used, otherwise the policy will be cancelled 
subject to a 7-day cancellation notice. You can purchase additional miles by calling us
So I think the fees and mileage were sufficiently brought to Miss Rs attention by Right 
Choice before she made her purchase. So I cant say that the policy was mis-sold to her. 
I can also see that Miss R had the option of cancelling her policy within the 14 day cooling 
off period if she found that it didnt suit her needs. And Right Choice also made its terms and 
conditions available through its online portal. So these were available for Miss R if she 
couldnt read them on her phone screen. I think that was fair and reasonable and I cant say 
that Right Choice misled Miss R or treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman