DRN-4103980
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund a payment it didnt make.
Mr S, who is a director or D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns an unauthorised payment. However, in line 
with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund it because it 
asserts Mr S failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and 
keep Ds personalised security details safe
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Cashplus has 
shown thats the case. Ill explain why. 
Mr S received a text message that appeared to come from Cashplus  it referenced a 
request to update the phone number on Ds account and told him someone would 
contact him shortly. He then received a call which similarly appeared to come from 
Cashpluss number, and he said the caller knew some of his personal information. 
Taking this all into account  how the communication appeared and the personal 
information they knew  I can see why he was persuaded they were calling from his 
genuine bank.
Mr S recalled being told that someone was attempting fraud on Ds account, so he
needed to reset its security details. As part of this, he was asked to forward an email 
he received to an address that mentioned Cashplus. He was also sent a link, which 
again appeared to be from Cashplus, to supposedly re-register his mobile banking 
app after theyd allegedly removed all devices. Mr S doesnt remember following this 
link. But he did recall that he entered a one time passcode on his screen at some 
point after receiving it by text. So I think its likely he did use the link and the website 
was a way for the fraudsters to covertly harvest the information they needed, like the 
passcode. This is in keeping with similar scams our service has seen. 
Overall, I dont think the steps Mr S took meant he was very significant careless 
compared to a reasonable person. This scam was cleverly prepared, and I can see 
how the timing and information in the messages Mr S received made it convincing. 
These factors, alongside Mr Ss trust in the caller and his understandable concern for 
Ds money, means I dont think he failed with gross negligence.  
In saying that, Ive considered Cashpluss point that he shared the passcode when 
there was a warning not to. But its not been specific about when Mr S said he shared 
the code with the caller. Instead, when Mr S reported the scam, he told Cashplus he 
entered it on his screen. Given that the message says it should be entered on screen 
when prompted, I dont think he seriously disregarded an obvious risk here. I think 
many others wouldve acted the same way  indeed, I note from the calls that this 
particular scam was familiar to Cashplus staff, as it is to our service. 
So I dont think Cashplus has shown Mr S failed with gross negligence. It follows that, 
in line with the PSRs, I dont consider D can be fairly held liable for this unauthorised 
payment and Cashplus needs to put things right.
Having reviewed Ds statements, it appears the unauthorised payment led to a 
couple of Direct Debits being rejected  leading to fees and D entering its overdraft. 
So Cashplus should also refund those caused by the unauthorised payment. 
Cashplus should have restored Ds account much sooner. So I also award 8% simple 
interest per year to compensate it for the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ds complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay D the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or refunded 
 I understand this to be £7,799.20.
Refund D any fees and charges as well as amending any adverse credit information 
that were caused by the unauthorised payment.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman