DRN-2652623
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken with a mortgage in 
1998. Mr and Mrs C say Coventry Building Society (Coventry) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale in 1998 and the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. The 
policy cover was on Mr C only. From what we have he was entitled to sick pay in the region 
of 90% of full pay for at least 13 weeks and had been with his employer around five years.
The mortgage was repaid and a new mortgage taken in 2004 and the policy was amended 
to cover it  the benefit and the premium both being reduced. At that time Mr and Mrs C 
were both with the same employers as in 1998  Mrs C was employed by a local council.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Coventrys offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr and Mrs C paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  and Mr and Mrs C 
asked for their complaint to continue. So, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Coventry should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Coventrys offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Coventry made it clear Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take the PPI and they chose 
to take it. I say this because Mr and Mrs C havent said anything to make me think this 
wasnt made clear and Ive seen nothing to make me think Coventry didnt make it clear.
Also, although not all the mortgage papers are available from 1998 due to the time thats 
passed, we do have the PPI part showing Mr C signed separately to apply for the PPI.
Also the 2004 mortgage application had a separate PPI section with options, including 
the option not to take the cover, and on Mr and Mrs Cs form the option to take cover 
was selected and they both signed below this choice, separately from signing for the 
mortgage itself. Mr C also signed a separate declaration to amend the cover.
Coventry didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C - so it didnt have to check the PPI 
was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give them enough clear and timely 
information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Coventry gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. I dont know exactly what information they were given in 1998 due 
to the lack of papers from that time. But the PPI application shows the monthly benefit, 
the monthly premium, shows Mr C was the person covered and says the cover was for 
accident, sickness and unemployment for 12 months  and Mr and Mrs C chose to take 
the cover, so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.
Also the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs C  for example from what we 
have about Mr Cs work benefits, it looks like the PPI benefit wouldve been useful if he 
were to have become unable to work due to disability or unemployment for a longer time. 
Also nothing about his job or employment wouldve made it hard to claim, there were no 
extra restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems and pre-existing conditions 
werent covered but, as the only health issue Mr C has told us hed had was a childhood 
operation, I dont think knowing more about this exclusion wouldve changed his decision 
to take cover.
I note Mr and Mrs C had savings theyd chosen to keep rather than use to pay down the 
mortgage - the PPI benefit couldve helped then keep those savings intact or free for 
other uses at what couldve been a difficult time were Mr C to have become unemployed 
or too sick to work.
With all Ive said above in mind, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its 
likely Mr and Mrs C thought they were buying from the information its likely they were 
given  and I dont think they wouldve declined it had Coventry done anything more in 
terms of the information it provided.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs C wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what 
its likely they thought they were getting and, given their circumstances, I think it couldve 
provided a useful benefit for Mr and Mrs C. In those circumstances, I think they wouldve 
taken it in any event.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant 
Coventry should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint.
This means Coventry doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Coventry should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Coventrys offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Coventry didnt tell Mr and Mrs C about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
in this case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Coventry and Mr and Mrs C was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Coventry didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case; 
I dont think Coventry acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs C, because 
it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMr and Mrs Cs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of 
the complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs C should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Coventry failed to tell Mr and Mrs C about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr and Mrs C wouldnt 
have taken the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive 
a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs C in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Coventry not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Cs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Coventrys failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Coventry to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs C paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves 
Mr and Mrs C with the policy Ive concluded above they wouldve still taken if Coventry had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So I consider that Coventrys offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs C for their courtesy and prompt attention to our requests 
throughout our consideration of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Coventry Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs C an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) - if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman