DRN-2821995
The complaint
Mr Q complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) defaulted his accounts.
What happened
Mr Q had two cards provided by NewDay  an Opus card and a Fluid card. He was 
struggling with repayments and by January 2020, he had debts of £2284 on the Opus card, 
and £5012 on the Fluid card. He contacted NewDay and agreed payments of £13.42 per 
month on Opus, and £28.71 per month on Fluid. Interest was zero, with no fees. In July 
2020, NewDay defaulted the Opus account and in August 2020, NewDay defaulted the Fluid 
account.
Mr Q said the defaults were unfairly applied when he was on a payment arrangement. His 
credit record was now affected, and he couldnt get credit from other lenders. He said he 
really wanted a payment holiday under the COVID19 arrangements and not a payment plan. 
He said hed asked for that.
NewDay said that theyd agreed the payment plans in February 2020 on both cards. But  
the first payment on these plans was needed within 21 days of the agreements. Arrears 
continued to build up. A default notice was sent in March 2020, with arrears of £349.71. A 
second notice of default was sent on 30 June 2020 and the default was registered in August 
2020. Because the Fluid account was in arrears, this information was advised to the credit 
reference agencies correctly. They paid compensation of £25 for any inconvenience caused 
 and refunded all interest and fees on both accounts - from when Mr Q told them of his 
difficulties in January 2020  totalling £633.03.
Mr Q brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said she could see that arrears had built 
up on both accounts, so the contractual terms of them had been broken. This was even 
though payments to them had been made at the reduced levels. NewDay had sent clear 
letters setting out the arrears information, and Mr Q hadnt cleared them. The defaults had 
therefore been correctly applied. 
Mr Q asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr Q is coming from  he says he agreed payment arrangements with 
NewDay and was meeting these, so he says it was unfair to register defaults on his credit 
file. So  I have looked at what happened in this connection.
Mr Q was struggling with his debts. I can see that by January 2020, he had debts of £5012 
on his Fluid card and £2284 on his Opus card. He called NewDay and explained his situation 
and provided an income and expenditure form. Based on that, NewDay agreed payment 
plans of ££28.71 a month on Fluid and £13.42 a month on Opus. These were a lot less than 
the minimum payments previously needed. NewDay wrote to Mr Q on 19 February 2020 to 
set out these agreements. Importantly, they said that the first payments must be made within 
21 days, and if so, there would be no interest or fees payable. But, if the payments werent 
made within 21 days, the payment agreement would be cancelled.
The letters said: You have told us that you are currently able to make reduced repayments of 
£28.71(£13.42 for Opus) per month and so we will set up a payment arrangement once we 
receive your first payment.
It is important that you make your payment within 21 days of the date of this letter. Interest 
and fees will continue to be applied until we have received your payment and the payment 
arrangement has been set up.
.Once we have received your first payment, we will set up the payment arrangement, not 
charge any fees and reduce your interest rate to 0% and will send you a letter to confirm 
this. We will expect future payments to reach us each month by the due date shown on your 
statement.
If we do not receive your first payment within 21 days of this letter, we will not be able to set 
up the payment arrangement and you will need to contact us to discuss other options.
Also, even though Mr Q was on a payment plan, NewDay were correct in advising the credit 
reference agencies of this  their letter dated 19 February 2020 said, We may also let credit 
reference agencies know you are on a payment arrangement which may make it harder for 
you to get credit in the future.  I can see that these were recorded as late payments on Mr 
Qs credit file.
I looked at Mr Qs statements to see if the payments were made within 21 days  and they 
werent. And over several months, payments werent regularly made. For the Fluid account, 
no payments were made in March 2020 or April 2020. But £28.71 was paid in each of the 
months of May 2020 through to August 2020. For the Opus account, no payments were 
made in February 2020 or March 2020. A payment of £13.42 was made in April 2020, but no 
payments were made in May 2020. Two payments were made in June 2020, but none in 
July 2020. So  Mr Q didnt keep to the agreement hed made with NewDay. So  as I see it, 
they were within their rights to default Mr Q as the arrears built up. I can see that NewDay 
set out the arrears information several times to Mr Q. 
NewDay  like all lenders, have an obligation to report accurate information to credit 
reference agencies  and thats what theyve done here.
I can also see that NewDay didnt charge Mr Q any interest or fees on either account  even 
though he hadnt kept to the February 2020 agreement. The exception to this was in March 
2020 and April 2020 on the Fluid account  when interest was applied. But also  NewDay 
refunded all interest and fees as part of their final response in October 2020. So  they acted 
fairly in that regard.Mr Q has said that he called NewDay and asked for a payment holiday  rather than a 
payment arrangement. This would have meant he didnt have to make any payments at all. 
NewDay told us they didnt have a record of Mr Qs request. But I would observe that  
payment holidays under the COVID 19 situation became available later in 2020 as the 
pandemic measures were out in place. Also, if NewDay had agreed a payment holiday (they 
would have to have agreed to it)  then interest and fees would still have been payable (as 
this was part of the payment holiday agreements across the industry), so its questionable 
whether he would have found himself better off at the end of the day  as he wasnt charged 
interest and fees by NewDay under the payment arrangement. 
So, having reviewed everything in connection with Mr Qs complaint, I think that NewDay 
acted reasonably. I can appreciate that Mr Q will be disappointed by my decision, but I wont 
be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman