DRN-3216127
The complaint
Mr F complains Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim for the 
theft of his motorhome. 
Mr F has been represented during the claim and for this complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to the representatives actions as being those of Mr F.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr F agreed to use a dealership, who Ive referred to as B, to sell his 
motorhome. He says B offered two options for the sale. Those were a Broker Sales Service 
with an agreed return of £36,000 or a Trade Valuation option with a value of £32,000. He 
chose the former and signed a broker sales agreement. He handed over the motorhome, its 
keys and documentation to B.
 
Around April 2018 Mr F discovered B had sold the motorhome for £30,000. It went on to pay 
him only £18,000 of the agreed return of £36,000. In July 2018 the dealership went into 
liquidation. A director of B (Ive referred to her as D) is now the subject of a police 
investigation and criminal prosecution. She seems to have been the owner of the dealership, 
B. 
In May 2019 Mr F claimed for the loss of the motorhome on his Markerstudy insurance 
policy. He said there had been a theft by appropriation so was covered by his policy. In July 
2019 the claim was refused. Markerstudy gave various reasons for doing so. It referred to 
theft by deception and storage exclusions in Mr Fs policy. It said the policy also excluded 
loss whilst the vehicle was in the charge of someone not covered by the policy to drive it. It 
also said the matter was a civil dispute between Mr F and B. It didnt agree there had been a 
theft of the motorhome. 
Mr F challenged this decision, arguing there had been no deception involved. In November 
2019 Markerstudy responded to his complaint. It said he should contact Bs liquidator for his 
losses. It then said there hadnt been an insured event, like theft. Instead B had breached its 
contract with Mr F. It again referred to an exclusion for theft by deception to refuse the claim. 
In July 2020 our Investigator provided her assessment of the complaint She felt it was 
reasonable of Markerstudy to say there hadnt been a theft of the motorhome. She said, 
even if there had been, it would be fair for Markerstudy to rely on the deception exclusion to 
refuse the claim. Mr F didnt accept that. So the complaint was passed to me.
In August 2020 D was disqualified from directing a company for eight years. This resulted 
from unfit conduct regarding the treatment of Bs customers. 
In November 2020, in response to a request from Mr Fs representative, the Prosecutor 
Fiscals Office, provided a letter stating criminal proceedings had been raised against D. 
That letter also says
 On the evidence before me, I can confirm that there is sufficient evidence in 
law to libel a charge of theft for each complainer, including theft of the vehicle 
themselves. (The Crown may ultimately choose to prosecute her for a more 
serious offence. However even if this occurs, the option for the jury to convict 
her of simple theft will remain). 
Markerstudy was shown the letter. In response it said it would need to wait for the court 
outcome to determine if a theft has taken place. It added that if its determined no theft 
occurred it would continue to consider the matter a civil dispute between Mr F and B.   
As Ive set out already Markerstudys referred to various reasons for refusing to cover Mr Fs 
loss  including different policy exclusions. It wasnt clear which grounds it was currently 
relying on. So for clarity I asked it for confirmation. It responded to say its refused the claim 
on the basis there wasnt an insured event. It says the issue is a breach of contract and a 
civil dispute. 
In response I told Markerstudy that, unless I heard otherwise, Id be considering the 
complaint on the basis that its only reason for refusal is its position that there wasnt a theft. 
I said that meant I wouldnt consider any exclusions or other reasons for refusal. 
Markerstudy went on to repeat its position that the claim had been repudiated on the basis 
that no insured had taken place. It didnt refer to any exclusions or other grounds. 
In December 2021 I issued a provisional decision. It explained why I intended to require 
Markerstudy to reconsider Mr Fs claim in light of any court judgement following a 
prosecution of D. Ive included my reasons for taking that position:
The policy covers Mr Fs motorhome against loss or damage caused by theft. 
Makerstudy says there wasnt a theft. It points to Mr F handing over his vehicle, its 
keys and documentation voluntarily to B for sale  and B paying him £18,000. For 
Markerstudy the matter is a breach of contract. A civil dispute between Mr F and B, 
rather than a theft of his motorhome. 
Mr F disagrees. Ive considered his reasons for feeling there was a theft of the 
motorhome itself. He says it was sold to a trade buyer at a trade value. That was 
contrary to his instructions, something he had specifically rejected. So he feels it was 
a theft by appropriation. Ive also considered the legal arguments and case law hes 
provided to support his argument.  
 
Ive taken into account the Insolvency Services Disqualification Undertaking for D. 
That sets out how, at the time B had possession of Mr Fs motorhome, D knew or 
ought to have known B was insolvent and unable to pay customers the agreed return 
(as set out on the broker sales agreement) to customers. And Ive considered the 
words of the Prosecutor Fiscal given above. 
Ultimately if Mr F hadnt received the significant payment from B I might be 
persuaded that, in the circumstances, a fair and reasonable outcome would be for 
Markerstudy to treat the claim as though there had been a theft of the motorhome. 
But that payment obscures matters for me. I accept it wasnt the full agreed return 
amount. But its a fairly significant contribution towards it. So I cant say 
Markerstudys current refusal of the claim on the basis there wasnt a theft of the 
motorhome is unfair or unreasonable. It says it needs to wait for a court judgement 
on any prosecution of D to determine if there was a theft. In the circumstances I feel 
thats a fair position for it to take. So I intend to require Markerstudy to reconsider Mr Fs claim following any relevant 
court judgement on the prosecution of D. If, when that happens, Mr Fs unhappy with 
Markerstudys reviewed position he could consider bringing a fresh complaint to this 
service.   
Markerstudy didnt respond with anything new. Mr F didnt accept my findings, providing a 
detailed response. Ive considered everything hes said before coming to this final decision. 
Below Ive set out and addressed what I consider to be his most pertinent points.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service, I wont be addressing every one of Mr Fs points here, just 
those that I consider the most significant. But Id like to reassure him and Markerstudy that I 
have considered everything provided. 
Mr F says I shouldnt consider the Disqualification Undertaking when considering his 
complaint. He says its only intended for specific purposes as set out by the Company 
Director Disqualification Act 1986. 
Ive thought about what Mr Fs said, including the reasons he gives for the reports contents 
not necessarily providing a fair representation of the circumstances. But I still think its 
reasonable to take the content into account when considering the circumstances of this 
complaint. It provides insight into Ds intentions and knowledge at the time Mr Fs sales 
agreement was entered in to. And in any event the same information has been released, as 
a press release, by the Insolvency Service. So its freely available and in the public domain.  
Mr F says hes provided more than enough to show his motorhome was stolen  and that 
means its for the insurer to show it wasnt. He adds that in other, related cases, its been 
accepted by this service that there was a theft of the complainants motorhome. But, here, 
Im considering the particular circumstances of this complaint. Ive noted Mr Fs latest 
comments, including the Prosecutor Fiscal charges, against D, relating to his motorhome. 
As I said in my provisional decision the part payment of a significant part of the agreed return 
price obscures the matter for me. I note Mr Fs points that it reduces the potential liability for 
Markerstudy - and despite it hes still suffered a loss. But for me the issue of theft in the 
circumstances is highly nuanced. Unfortunately, for Mr F, the £18,000 payment leads me to 
conclude I cant fairly find Markerstudys decision that there wasnt a theft of the motorhome 
is unfair. I still feel its intention to wait for a court judgement on any prosecution of D, to 
determine if there was a theft of the motorhome, is fair in the circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons given above, Markerstudy Insurance Company is required to reconsider 
Mr Fs claim in light of any relevant court judgement following a prosecution of D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman