DRN-2579072
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard gave her incorrect 
advice about when it would start charging her interest on her balance transfer. She wanted it 
to pay back the interest that she wasnt expecting to be charged.
What happened
Mrs D told us shed accepted an offer of a zero-interest balance transfer from Barclaycard 
some time ago. In July 2019 shed been locked out of her account, and had rung 
Barclaycard to check on her balance. Shed asked then when the zero-interest offer on her 
account would expire, and been told January 2021. So shed just been paying since then. 
Mrs D contacted us in October 2020, to say shed recently discovered that Barclaycard had 
actually started to charge her interest in September 2019. Mrs D said Barclaycard had 
refunded some interest as a gesture of goodwill, but she didnt think that was enough. 
Mrs D said shed cleared the balance of the account. She wanted Barclaycard to pay back 
all the interest shed been charged. She wanted it to refund the cost of an app shed 
purchased to download its messages. She wanted compensation for its poor 
communication, and the time shed wasted dealing with this issue. She wanted the manager 
whod refused a larger refund to be reported for the way hed handled this, and the complaint 
handler who had been dealing directly with her to be praised for the support shed given her.
Barclaycard said that Mrs Ds initial balance transfers were done in August 2016. Those 
were done as part of a promotional offer available when Mrs D applied for the account. Mrs 
Ds statements showed that those transfers were due to start incurring interest in September 
2019. Barclaycard said it was making statements available online for Mrs D each month, and 
its shown us those statements. 
Barclaycard has also shown us details of the opening offers on this account. That confirms 
the September 2019 date for the expiry of balance transfers made at account opening.
Barclaycard couldnt find a recording of the call that Mrs D referred to, where she said shed 
had wrong advice. Mrs D had referred to a letter, which she said also confirmed this January 
2021 date. But Barclaycard said that letter only applied to new balance transfers made at the 
time of the letter, which was sent in 2019. So Barclaycard said the interest Mrs D had been 
charged had all been correctly applied to her account. 
Barclaycard said that it couldnt extend balance transfers for the length of time that Mrs D 
wanted. It wouldnt refund all of the interest she had been charged. When Mrs D complained, 
Barclaycard paid back £427.77 in interest, as a gesture of goodwill. And when our service 
asked it about this complaint, it said it still thought that was a fair outcome to this case.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that although 
evidence of the call hadnt been found, she accepted that Mrs D had called Barclaycard, and 
that Mrs D had understood from that call she wouldnt be charged until 1 January 2021. Our 
investigator said she couldnt be sure what had happened, but if Barclaycard said this, it was 
a mistake. 
Our investigator thought that it was clear from the letter Mrs D sent us, dated July 2019, that 
the offer there only applied to new transfers, not to the existing transfers on her card. But 
Mrs D had told us that the advisor she spoke to had given her different information. 
Our investigator said that if Mrs D had been given incorrect information, wed expect 
Barclaycard to put that right. But that wouldnt necessarily mean Barclaycard should pay 
back all of the interest. Our investigator said she also had to consider whether Mrs D ought 
reasonably to have been aware that interest was being charged. 
Our investigator said that the information on the transfers that Mrs D had done was very 
clear on her statements. The end date was set out for each transfer. Our investigator knew 
Mrs D hadnt been logging in to her account, and that shed said she couldnt access the 
online statements, but it didnt look like Mrs D had reported this to Barclaycard. So 
Barclaycard wasnt responsible for Mrs D not being able to see her statements. 
Our investigator had worked out that Mrs D had been charged a little over £1,200 in interest, 
which she wasnt expecting. Barclays had repaid more than a third of this. And it had 
stopped further interest. Our investigator thought that provided a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
Mrs D repeated that she had been given incorrect information, and because of that shed 
missed out on the opportunity to move her money elsewhere. She said that Barclaycards 
gesture of goodwill didnt cover the time shed spent disputing its error, or all of the extra 
interest shed been charged. And she didnt think this was a gesture of goodwill at all, she 
thought it was just part of the money she was owed. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said that whilst Barclaycard had accepted what 
Mrs D said about the mistake on the phone, it was making all the information Mrs D needed 
available to her. And it is generally considered prudent for someone to keep an eye on 
whats happening on their account. Our investigator said that even if Barclaycard had found 
the call recording, and it said what Mrs D had told us, then she would still say that 
Barclaycard had made a fair offer. 
Mrs D was still unhappy, and said she wouldnt settle for less. Because no agreement was 
reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mrs D has told us she was misled on a call with Barclaycard in July 2019, and that she 
understood she wouldnt pay any interest on the existing transfers on her account until 
January 2021. She checked her account again sometime around October 2020, and found 
the balance was much more than she was expecting, because interest was being charged.
Mrs D says that the reason shes ended up having to pay this interest is because she was 
given wrong advice by Barclaycard on the phone, and she relied on that. Otherwise she 
couldve transferred her money earlier, to a different card with a fresh interest free offer.But I dont think that advice was the sole reason Mrs D has ended up paying this interest. I 
think that the other reason is, as our investigator has said, because Mrs D wasnt checking 
her account. She called Barclaycard in July 2019. Interest started to be charged in 
September 2019. But Mrs D only discovered the additional interest around October 2020. So 
Mrs D doesnt appear to have looked at this account in a year or more.
Our service does expect account holders to keep an eye on their accounts. And that means I 
cant fairly ask Barclaycard to pay back all the interest Mrs D was charged, when the reason 
that this interest kept on being charged was because she didnt check her account more 
frequently. If Mrs D had checked her account more often, she would have discovered this 
problem earlier. So I think that not doing this is one of the reasons Mrs D ended up being 
charged all of this interest. 
I know Mrs D has said she couldnt access this account online, so she couldnt see her 
statements. But I dont think thats Barclaycards fault. She doesnt seem to have asked it to 
fix this problem, or used the alternative means of checking her balance.
Because I dont think that everything that has gone wrong here is Barclaycards fault, I dont 
think that Barclaycard has to pay back all the interest Mrs D was charged. I do think its fair 
for it to pay back some of the money Mrs D has been charged. And, like our investigator, I 
also think that what it has done, in paying back about five months of interest, does provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Mrs D also said this wouldnt cover all the difficulties she had raising this complaint, and 
shes told us that this involved some costs to her too. But it does seem likely that at least 
some of the time that this took up, was because Mrs D didnt think Barclaycards offer was 
fair, and didnt want to accept it. Because I do think it was fair, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to ask Barclaycard to pay more to make up for the time Mrs D spent trying 
to persuade Barclaycard to change its mind, and then bringing her complaint to us.
Mrs D also wanted compensation for the cost of an app she said she needed, to access 
Barclaycards messages. Because I think Barclaycard has made a sizeable refund in this 
case, of interest that it was entitled to charge, I dont think it needs to pay for that too.
And Mrs D wanted our service to report a manager who she felt hadnt supported her, and to 
praise a complaint handler she felt did support her. But I dont think it would be appropriate 
for our service to get involved with personnel issues in the way that Mrs D would like, 
especially as Ive reached a different conclusion on this case. 
I do realise that Mrs D will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont think Barclaycard has 
to do more than its already done. I dont think her complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman