DRN-1700070
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about how Pepper (UK) Limited actioned a refund of an amount to 
their mortgage account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R held a mortgage with Pepper. One of the requirements of the mortgage 
was that they held buildings insurance on their property, and that they provided Pepper with 
proof of this. Pepper says because they didn't receive the appropriate insurance documents 
they set up a policy for Mr and Mrs R and charged the mortgage account with a monthly 
premium.
When the problem was sorted out Pepper agreed to refund the premiums that had been 
charged and asked Mr and Mrs R how they would like it to be paid. They were given the 
option to have the money paid to them directly, or use it to reduce the balance of the 
mortgage. Mr R asked to have the money paid to him directly.
At the same time the refund was being processed Mr and Mrs R were organising to move 
their mortgage to another lender. As part of this process Pepper produced a redemption 
statement for their solicitors. This showed what the outstanding balance of the mortgage 
would be on the proposed day of redemption. This figure included the refund of insurance 
premiums which had been used to reduce the outstanding balance of the mortgage, rather 
than paid directly to Mr R as he requested. 
When Mr R realised he hadn't received the payment he contacted Pepper who explained 
what had happened. Pepper said that Mr and Mrs R should've been told the refund had 
already been used to reduce the balance of their mortgage and that they wouldn't be getting 
a refund directly. Pepper apologised for giving the wrong information and offered £50 for 
trouble caused. Mr R was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the situation. He explained Mr and Mrs R hadnt suffered 
a financial loss for what happened. Though Mr R hadn't been paid directly, the balance of 
the mortgage had been reduced by the same amount. He agreed that Pepper have given 
incorrect information but thought the £50 offered was a suitable remedy for the 
inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs R disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's no doubt Mr and Mrs R were given incorrect information. They were told they could 
have the refund paid to them directly. But this wasn't the case. They should've been told the 
refund had already been applied to the outstanding balance of their mortgage. And, that it 
wasn't possible to pay it to them directly as a redemption figure had already been produced 
for their solicitors. Had they been told this then they would be in the same position they are in now; the refund 
reduced the outstanding balance of the mortgage. So Mr and Mrs R haven't suffered a 
financial loss. The issue is one of loss of expectation. Mr and Mrs R expected to have the 
refund paid back to them directly, but it wasn't. To apologise for the inconvenience and 
upset this error caused Pepper has offered £50. 
I've checked the redemption statement and am happy that the outstanding mortgage 
balance was reduced by the amount Mr and Mrs R were expecting. Mr R says that he didn't 
give permission for this to happen. And I agree. But in these circumstances it isn't the case 
that Pepper made an error by reducing the mortgage; the error was not telling Mr and Mrs R 
this had happened. 
There was some inconvenience caused by the error, and certainly a loss of expectation. But 
there is no financial loss. Mr and Mrs R were given wrong information about something that 
had already happened. The situation was always going to be the same because the refund 
had already been applied to the mortgage balance and the redemption statement had 
already been produced.
I'm satisfied the £50 Pepper has offered Mr and Mrs R is reasonable resolution for what 
happened, so I won't be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
Pepper (UK) Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that (Pepper UK) Limited should pay Mr and Mrs R £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman