DRN-2899416
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of himself and Mrs B about the decline of their claim for malicious 
damage by their tenants under a landlord policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc. In the decision I 
shall refer only to Mr B.
What happened
Mr B let his property to tenants for one year from 26 June 2020, but they left in September 
2020. In August 2020 Mr B discovered they had painted his solid oak kitchen units with 
brown paint. Mr B considered this to be malicious damage and subsequently claimed under 
the policy. He also said the tenants stole fixtures and fittings when they left the property.
AXA said the damage wasnt malicious and declined Mr Bs claim. It said this must involve 
ill-will against the policyholder and it must be proven that the tenants actions were carried 
out with the deliberate intent to cause harm. AXA also referred to an exclusion clause within 
the policy for, Any loss or damage caused by you, or by any other person lawfully in the 
property. And a further clause excluding cover for normal redecoration.  
Mr B said the damage should be considered criminal as it was done unlawfully, intentionally 
and recklessly. He sent details of legal cases and definitions in support of his view that AXA 
was liable for the damage to his property. He said hed reported the matter to the police.
Mr B said AXA incorrectly told him he wasnt covered for his claim. He disagreed with AXAs 
application of the policy terms to his claim and referred his complaint to our service.
AXA said its legal advisers confirmed its interpretation of the policy term. AXA apologised for 
mistakenly telling Mr B he hadnt taken out optional cover for malicious damage caused by 
tenants. And AXA sent Mr B the incorrect policy for which it paid him £50 compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said malicious damage 
isnt defined in the policy, but we would expect this to mean the tenant intended to do harm, 
but there was no evidence of this. He said the issue concerned the tenancy agreement 
which we cant consider. He thought £50 compensation was fair for AXAs poor service.
Mr B disagreed with the investigator. He said AXAs policy was contradictory about cover for 
deliberate acts. He thought the tenants had acted recklessly and their actions fell within a 
reasonable definition of malicious acts under the policy and should be considered criminal 
damage. Mr B requested an ombudsman review his complaint.  
Mr B provided a copy of the tenancy agreement at my request. This requires a deposit to be 
paid by the tenants. The tenants are liable for any damage to be paid from the deposit. Its 
for the landlord to agree to tenants being released before the end of the agreement or the 
tenant remains liable for rent. The agreement states that the tenants are not to decorate or 
make any alterations without the landlords permission. 
Mr B said the tenants were released from the tenancy following an inspection and this was a 
month after he became aware of the painting of the kitchen units. Mr B said that the police 
told him theft and malicious damage by his tenants are civil matters and the police wouldnt 
log the incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says it isnt possible to effectively remove paint from real oak wood and that his kitchen 
units are ruined. AXA and our investigator thought Mr B hadnt shown that his tenants 
intended to damage his kitchen. Mr B contends that his tenants did intentionally damage his 
property. 
AXAs liability or otherwise for the claim turns on the application of the term for malicious 
damage, and I have considered Mr Bs interpretation of the term. The policy doesnt provide 
a definition though it does refer to intent to damage. I have taken the Oxford English 
Dictionary definition of malice, the desire to harm someone; ill will. The term requires ill will 
behind the tenants actions and I have to consider whether this was present. I can see Mr 
Bs view that by applying brown paint to solid oak kitchen units the tenants deliberately 
degraded their appearance, but Im also aware of the possibility that this isnt the tenants 
view of it. 
Mr B said the painting was discovered by his tradesperson on 18 August 2020 and the 
tenants left on 15 September 2020. So the painting was carried out at least four weeks 
before the tenants departed and quite soon into their intended tenancy period. 
I have no reason to disbelieve Mr B that he hadnt given his permission for the painting but 
Im not sure it was a malicious act. I can think of many more and obvious ways in which 
tenants might damage a property. In this case they might have painted the worktop which 
would have given a stronger visual impression and caused more damage than just painting 
the kitchen units. Mr B hasnt provided any evidence of acrimony between himself and the 
tenants that might have motivated them to malicious acts.
In my experience these incidents tend to occur on the departure of the tenants. And the 
departure isnt generally with the agreement of the landlord. In Mr Bs case he appears to 
have known about the painting a month before and agreed to the early ending of the 
tenancy, with an inspection held involving the tenants, but nothing in place to secure 
compensation. Its not clear to me whether or not the kitchen units were discussed at the 
inspection and Mr B says the tenants ignored his email about the painting of the kitchen. 
Mr Bs policy covers Malicious damage by tenants up to £5,000 - If your tenants intentionally 
damage (or vandalise your property) and/or its contents, the policy will cover up to this 
amount for repair costs. Mr B said AXAs policy is contradictory about deliberate acts. I can 
see his point as the exclusion clause cited above acts against the cover for malicious 
damage to some extent. Im satisfied Mr B was covered for malicious acts, but Im not 
convinced the sequence of actions has the character of a malicious damage claim and so 
the exclusion clause doesnt apply to the claim.  
The investigator thought the tenants were careless or ignorant rather than that their intention 
was to cause harm. I think in the circumstances this is a reasonable explanation of what took 
place with Mr Bs kitchen and so I think it was fair for AXA to decline the claim.
 
Mr B says the damage was criminal. By their nature criminal acts should be reported to the 
police and indeed this is what Mr Bs policy requires him to do in these circumstances, which underlines the intent to harm aspect of the policy. However, Mr B says the police wouldnt 
take a report as the matter he reported, including the theft of some of his fixtures, is a civil 
matter. As a consequence, Mr B hasnt complied with the policy requirement.
Its unclear to me why Mr B didnt follow the terms of the tenancy agreement and secure a 
deposit from his tenants. He said this was because they were of good intellect and were fully 
referenced. Had he collected the deposit the tenancy agreement would have allowed him to 
recover the cost of making good his kitchen. To that extent the issue he has raised is one for 
his tenancy agreement and not his insurer.
I can see AXA sent Mr B the wrong policy and Im pleased it quickly corrected this and its 
erroneous statement that his policy didnt cover him for malicious acts by his tenants. I think 
the compensation its paid him is fair for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman