DRN-2301538
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a motor insurance policy with RSA through an online price comparison site. 
When he had a motor accident, he claimed on his policy. RSA then found that he had two 
undeclared previous claims. It avoided his policy and returned the premiums hed already 
paid. 
When Mr C complained, RSA said hed answered the question hed been asked about 
previous incidents and claims incorrectly. And that it considered this entitled it to avoid his 
policy. Mr C said this was an honest mistake made at a difficult time. He said he had no 
reason not to disclose the previous claims and he thought he shouldnt be penalised for this.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
She agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And she thought RSA was 
entitled to avoid the policy.  
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
RSA thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that he hadnt had any previous claims within 
the past five years. 
Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application and agree he 
failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked, Have you had any motoring 
accidents, claims or losses in the past 5 years, whether or not a claim was made and 
regardless of blame? A drop down box gave further clarification. And so I think this was a 
clear question asked by RSA through the comparison site Mr C used.
The Welcome Pack sent to Mr C when he took out his policy asked him to check that the 
information hed provided on the Policy Schedule was accurate and complete. In the section 
Accidents, Claims or Losses, it says:
You, or any driver on this policy, have not had, or caused, any accidents, claims or damage
involving any motor vehicle (including car, motorcycle or van) in the past five years, whether
or not a claim was made, and regardless of blame.
I can see that Mr C had two fault claims within the two previous years, but he didnt declare 
these. Mr C told us that he recalls declaring these on the online comparison site. But RSA 
has provided us with what was inputted, and I cant see that he did this. In any case, the 
claims didnt appear on his insurance documents, so I think Mr C should then have corrected 
the inaccuracy. And I think this means Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he said he didnt have any previous claims. 
RSA has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Mr C had not made this 
misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered him cover. This means I am satisfied Mr Cs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA. RSA seems to have accepted that Mr 
C made an honest mistake. And so it refunded his premiums in full. I think that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances 
Therefore, Im satisfied RSA was entitled to avoid Mr Cs policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, RSA does not have to deal with 
any claims against him. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing RSA to rely on it to avoid Mr Cs policy produces 
the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman