DRN-1840125
 
The complaint
Mr K complains he wasnt told about the availability of enhanced annuities or the open 
market option when he took out his annuity with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited
What happened
Mr K complains he wasnt told about various options when he took an annuity from the 
Prudential in 2012. In 2018 he was contacted by the Prudential to ensure hed been provided 
with enough information about enhanced annuities. Its review concluded that he had not lost 
out financially as he wouldnt have been eligible for an enhanced annuity as he confirmed he 
didnt have any health conditions at the time. Mr K said he didnt agree because he wasnt 
told he mightve got a higher income from another provider. He wasnt aware that was an 
option at the time.
The Prudential didnt uphold his complaint. It said papers issued at the time stated he could 
buy an annuity with another provider using the open market option. It thought he was fully 
aware of his options.
The investigator didnt think the Prudential had acted unfairly. It didnt seem Mr K was 
eligible for an enhanced annuity at the time his annuity was taken out. He was also provided 
with the information to highlight his choices when deciding to take an annuity including the 
open market option. The papers also suggested he might wish to consult a financial adviser 
before proceeding.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for copies of all correspondence reviewed by the investigator. 
He confirmed hed received some but not all of the documents. He received the key feature 
document, a letter of early June 2012 and members policy document. He didnt have a 
record of receiving a letter in early April 2012. In none of those documents was there any 
reference to getting a higher income or shopping around. If the documents were so 
important he said they shouldve been sent recorded delivery.
The investigator issued a second view. He said the correspondence couldve been lost in the 
post and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Prudential liable for this and it wasnt 
reasonable to expect them to send it recorded delivery. The documents enclosed were listed 
on the cover letter so if Mr K hadnt received them he couldve raised a concern at the time. 
As Prudential was able to provide copies of what was sent he couldnt conclude the items 
were not sent out. He also said two other documents sent to Mr K , a guide to choosing you 
income for life and getting ready to take your pension income covered enhanced annuities 
and the open market option. He remained of the view Mr K had been given enough 
information to be informed of his choices. Mr K still didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K say he didnt have any health issues at the time he took his annuity so I dont need to 
consider whether he was informed about the enhanced annuity option as it wouldnt have 
made any difference.
With respect to his complaint that he wasnt aware of the open market option, I have 
reviewed the correspondence and in particular a letter dated December 2011. This enclosed 
a getting ready to take your pension income booklet. This included a section on enhanced 
annuities and one headed shopping around and explaining how the open market option 
worked and also pointed to financial advice if you are considering this.
A letter of early April 2012 enclosed a guide to choosing your income for life. The guide 
sets out the option to buy an annuity from another provider and calls it the Open Market 
Option. It says that he may be able to get a higher income elsewhere. The cover letter also 
had a section headed open market option which informed him he could buy an annuity from 
another provider and could approach them direct. It also suggested that for this option or any 
of the others he may wish to contact a financial adviser. 
Mr K says he doesnt have a record of receiving either letter nor have a copy in his records. 
The Prudential said 
the letters issued in December 2011 and April 2012 were part of the wake up process. Mr K 
was nearing his selected retirement date of 28 May 2018 and these letters were issued 
automatically. I have been unable to find any contact from Mr K until he called us on the 18 
May 2012. These letters were sent to the same address as the quotes issued in May 2012 
and we have nothing to suggest that they were returned as undelivered
I have seen a copy of a letter of 10 May 2012 to Mr K. It enclosed a key features of the 
Prudential Guaranteed Annuity Booklet and quotation, cancellation notice and application 
and income payment form. The booklet didnt refer to the open market option or enhanced 
annuities but that isnt surprising as it was documentation to set up the contractual terms of 
his annuity. 
Based on what I have seen the information Prudential prepared would in my view have been 
sufficient to explain the open market option. 
However the issue is whether or not they were issued and received. 
In a situation where one party says they were sent and another denies receiving them I need 
to decide what is fair based on the balance of the evidence available.
Mr K says he doesnt have a record of receiving them nor have a copy in his records. This 
doesnt mean they werent sent.
The Prudential has been able to provide copies of the letters that it says are automatically 
generated. They appear correctly addressed to the same address that the quote 
documentation was successfully issued and received by Mr K. 
I note that the Prudential says Mr K didnt make contact until May 2012. However I note the 
letters it says it sent in December and April were for information and didnt require Mr K to 
contact them, so that is not surprising and doesnt indicate the letters werent sent or 
received. The fact he made contact in May 2012 does however show that post was 
successfully reaching Mr K at that address.
Given the evidence I think it is reasonable to accept that on balance the letters were created 
and issued, the copies show they were correctly addressed and there is no evidence of 
these being returned undelivered, it seems most likely to me that they were sent. However 
that does not mean they were received. Letters do get lost in the post. However that is outside the control of Prudential and it wouldnt be fair for me to hold it responsible for that 
loss. So I think the evidence shows the Prudential sent Mr K what Id reasonably expect to 
advise Mr K of the availability of the open market option. 
I dont think Prudential was required to ensure the letters were received. Mr K says that the 
letters shouldve been sent by registered post if they were important. However that is a 
business decision for Prudential and I cannot direct it to change its business practices to do 
that.
So while I am sorry to disappoint Mr K I dont think I can hold Prudential responsible for the 
fact he doesnt recall or have a record of receiving these letters. I dont think Prudential acted 
unfairly as it did what I would reasonably expect and had no reason to believe the letters 
werent received as they were not returned undelivered. 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman