DRN-1988297
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Intelligent Finance) mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr I. 
What happened
This complaint is about PPI policies which were sold in September 2001 and February 2002. 
These covered two loans. Bank of Scotland says the PPI policies were sold by phone. Mr I 
believes he never agreed to these PPI policies. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr I disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sales took place more than 18 years ago and, not surprisingly, there are limited 
documents surviving from the time. I also wouldnt expect someone to be able to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the 
evidence when considering the case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Ive considered what Mr I has said, including his comments to the adjudicator, but Ive decided I dont 
have strong enough evidence to fairly say the policy was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr I has no recollection of agreeing to these policies, suggesting he suspects the PPI was 
added without his consent. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened 
unless there was reasonable supporting evidence. Where someone has said another person 
or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the 
allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make 
someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time 
ago.
And there is at least a copy of a letter Bank of Scotland sent to Mr I in February 2002. THIS  
confirmed the payments that would be taken for the two PPI policies and the benefit levels 
they gave. And the records support Bank of Scotlands assertion that the PPI was set up 
after the loans were agreed  meaning, if there really were conversations about the PPI at 
the time, Mr I would have known he didnt have to take the PPI to get his loan. 
Although I cant be sure, I think its most likely Bank of Scotland did offer the PPI as a choice 
to Mr I, and that he agreed to take it  even if, not surprisingly, he cant now remember the 
detail of everything that went on so long ago. 
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr I, which means I would judge it against a higher 
standard in its sales process  it had to make sure that any recommendation was suitable to Mr Is 
individual circumstances. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Mr Is 
circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped make the loan payments for a period longer 
than Mr Is employment sick pay and other resources lasted. And it would have paid out at the same 
time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr I more financially secure for longer. It would 
have meant Mr I wouldnt need to fall back on other resources so soon. 
Mr I has said he believes he had an income protection scheme through his mortgage provider at this 
time. But he hasnt been able to give details of that, or evidence that it was in place at the same time. 
So I havent been able to consider whether that made Bank of Scotlands recommendations 
unsuitable. And, overall, I think the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable.  And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman