DRN-3343837
The complaint
Mr C complains about the changes Legal and General Assurance (Pensions Management) 
Limited (L&G) made to its property fund in which he was invested. He said he was misled 
about the impact of these changes and as a result L&G has caused him financial loss.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision. This was as follows:
Mr C has a stakeholder pension (pension plan) with L&G and on 24 July 2018, he received 
a letter (the update) from the business regarding changes it was making to the way its 
property fund was managed. The update said: The majority of our funds are managed by a 
company within the Legal & General Group called Legal & General Assurance (Pensions 
Management) Limited (PMC). The other funds that are not currently managed by PMC will 
soon be moved to PMC.
L&G went on to say that This will mean all of the funds within our range are managed by 
PMC, which will enable us to administer your pension in the most efficient way we can by 
using our latest investment platform technology
In its update L&G explained that anyone invested in affected funds would have their money 
invested in an almost identical way and that there would be no impact to the charges they 
will pay. L&Gs update said the changes would take effect from around October 2018.
From October 2018 to March 2019, Mr C made the following investment switches through 
his pension plan: 
12 October 2018  he switched 100% of his pension funds from a property fund to 
cash: The price Mr C would've seen when the switch was instructed was 358.80. The 
unit movement on the day was 358.80 (both priced at bid).
31 October 2018  he switched 50% to property from cash. The price Mr C would've 
seen when the switch was instructed was 359.20 (bid) and the unit movement on the 
day was 362.40 (mid).
21 March 2019  he switched 100% out of property to cash. The price Mr C would've 
seen when the switch was instructed was 385.20 (offer). The unit movement on the 
day was 359.90 (bid).
Mr C said after the switch on 31 October 2018, he noticed immediately that the property fund 
was very volatile. Mr C said his decision to switch to 100% cash in March 2019 was because 
he had noticed that in 2016, the Brexit vote caused a significant drop in the funds value. 
Mr C thought this was also likely to happen again so he chose to switch back to cash. But 
when he did, he says he lost around £2,700 from his original investment.
Mr C complained to L&G. He attributed his losses to the changes made to the property fund. 
He said a fact sheet showed a valuation spread of 1.09% for the property fund, which he had 
relied on, but this was clearly misleading as the fund was very volatile.
L&G rejected the complaint. It explained that the property fund operated on a swinging single 
price basis. This pricing system meant that if net outflows exceeded inflows, or the other way 
around, the fund swings from a bid to offer price and vice versa. Only one price is charged 
depending on the swing price. L&G said that, historically, the fund was almost permanently 
at bid as the investors it had at the time, were making significant withdrawals. However, L&G 
said investor behaviour has changed which has meant it was not permanently priced at bid, 
and this explains the volatility Mr C saw in the funds price.
L&G said it couldnt agree Mr C was entitled to any redress for any losses due to the swing 
in price. It noted that when Mr C sold his property fund units, the price had swung back to 
bid, but that this was the result of net inflows (buying in) over outflows (withdrawals). So, the 
decrease in value was due to normal fund performance. And had nothing to do with the 
changes it had made.
Mr C disagreed. He was told by L&G that a new Workplace fund had split from a residual 
fund. So, Mr C believed this meant that previously the property fund had been one fund, but 
when it moved to PMC it was split into two funds. Mr C says the smaller size of the property 
fund he was transferred into (Workplace), contributed to the volatility as investor activity and 
transaction costs would have more of an impact on price movements. He said he should 
have been warned about this before he decided to invest but was only told about this 
significant change when he contacted L&G to complain.
But L&G said that all the assets from the property fund related to Workplace investors, had 
transferred to PMC and continued to be managed by the same management team and had 
the same charges and pricing systems. It also said the size of the fund had nothing to do 
with the price swings.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint but later she considered that L&G had 
made a mistake in one of its fact sheets where it said the valuation spread was 1.09%. She 
thought this wasnt correct as L&G had confirmed that the valuation spread was around 7% 
to 8%. She said Mr C had relied on the incorrect information and should be compensated for 
his loss as well as £150 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
L&G disagreed, making the same points as it did above. Mr C also provided further 
information to this service. In summary, he made the following points: 
The losses occurred due to the new property fund set up by L&G which he hadnt 
been properly informed about. L&G had split what had been one fund, into two funds. 
Their communication gave no warning about this. If hed been told about the changes 
in more detail he would not have invested in the first place.
He was told by L&G that the residual fund had continued to experience net outflows 
but the Workplace fund had net inflows as a result of a growing investor base. The 
Workplace fund to which he was invested, was subject to more volatility because it 
was small in size and the inflows and outflows along with transaction costs, had more 
significant impact on the prices.
He became trapped in the fund before he realised it was subject to the volatile 
swings in prices. The fact sheet said the valuation spread was around 1%. This was 
clearly not true, so he was misled by L&G.In my provisional decision, I said I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. In response, 
L&G provided the fact sheet document that would have applied to the property fund prior to 
the changes in October 2018. This along with other documents referred to below, have been 
sent to Mr C by our service. Mr C provided further submissions. In summary, he said:
He reiterated his main point was that he wasnt told about the split with the Mature 
Savings investors funds from the Workplace investors fund and that if he had been 
told about this, he wouldnt have invested as he did.
He hadnt placed reliance on the advisers fact sheet. He only mentioned this as an 
example of what information was available.
There was no information available which referred to the potential swing for a 
property fund such as the 8.5% referred to in my decision.
The changes made had a significant impact on the swing of the fund for the reasons 
he had previously stated  he said the size of the fund did affect the volatility and if 
hed been told about these changes, he would not have invested in the first place.
He provided a L&G document from October 2018 which didnt refer to the potential 
swing of a property fund and this is all he had access to. He didnt have access to his 
online account at the time and had to do the trade over the phone.
The smaller fund was only one factor affecting the swing. He considers that the 
Mature Savings no longer sharing with the Workplace investors caused greater 
volatility to the property fund and investors should have been given more detail about 
these changes.
He was happy to accept the risks associated with a property fund but he wasnt told 
about the changes that impacted on the bid/ offer swing of the fund.
He could have made an informed choice if he was aware of the potential swing 
differences following the changes.
L&G say the valuations spread was 7% before the switch to the property fund but he 
wasnt told about this and this information wasnt made available to him in any of its 
documents.
So, the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, on the face of the evidence and on balance, Im not 
persuaded that L&G has behaved unreasonably. But before I explain further why this is the 
case, I think its important for me to note I very much recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling 
about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions in response to my provisional 
decision, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail. No discourtesy is meant by this 
 but simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Whilst Ive taken on board what Mr C has said, nothing he says has changed my mind. For 
the most part, Mr C has reiterated what he has previously said and hasnt provided any new 
persuasive evidence to support his case. So, the reasons Im not upholding this decision 
remain as those set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Mr C says if L&G had told him about the significant changes it made in October 2018, he 
would not have invested in the property fund at all. In particular, Mr C says his property fund 
was split into two funds  a Workplace fund and a residual fund  following the changes made in October 2018. But I think this is a misunderstanding of what happened. L&G 
clarified the position in its submissions to this service that (bold my emphasis):
The 2018 project sought to move L&Gs Workplace investors to LGIMs [Legal 
and General Investment Management] latest technology and funds which are 
offered via the PMC entity within the L&G Group. Some of the funds within the 
Workplace business were also accessed by L&Gs Mature Savings business. Only 
the Workplace investors assets were moved to PMC, so funds shared with 
Mature Savings saw assets moved from the original fund to the PMC entity. As we 
informed investors ahead of the project, we would move the funds to PMC and 
they would be managed in an almost identical way with no impact on charges.
My understanding of what L&G has said, is that prior to the changes the group of investors 
under the Mature Savings part of the business and the group of investors under the 
Workplace part of the business, shared some of the same fund each with their own assets. 
When it referred to the residual fund, I think it was referring to the Mature Savings part of 
the business, which was in the process of being sold to another business.
So, Mr C didnt become a Workplace investor because of the changes  his pension plan 
was already part of this side of L&Gs business. The Mature Savings part of L&Gs business 
has since been sold to another business whilst its Workplace investors remained with L&G 
with their funds now managed by PMC. Mr C will note that the emails he receives from L&G 
are from its Workplace DC department. And he received the update sent in July 2018 
because he was a Workplace investor as these were the investors affected by the changes.
As L&G has said, all of Workplace pension investors assets were moved to the PMC entity. 
I appreciate this is complicated but from what I can see, the property funds assets that 
belonged to Workplace investors, were transferred over to PMC as the update said would 
happen. As L&G noted, all other elements such as the benchmarks used, the management 
team and the pricing system remained unchanged. So, as far as the update dated 24 July 
2018 is concerned, I think this was clear, fair and not misleading.
I think its important to note that by the time Mr C switched back into the property fund on 
31 October 2018, the changes had already happened. So, even if the changes had involved 
the size of the fund becoming smaller, Mr C wasnt invested at the point this happened. In 
any event, I dont think the size of the fund was necessarily the cause of any subsequent 
volatility. This is illustrated by Your guide to how your funds are managed, where L&G 
provide explanations about the level of volatility depending on different types of investments. 
Under the heading How volatile are they?, L&G says a property funds volatility is normally 
moderate to high. And that this is because: 
Property prices can be very volatile. They can go down or up sharply in the short 
term and  in the case of a fall in price  may take a long time to recover. In return, 
they offer the potential for growth over the long term.
This section also says that the typical bid/ offer (valuation) spread for this type of investment 
is around 8.5% and says a fund of this type should be normally held for at least five years. 
So, I think the higher potential for this type fund to be more volatile than other types of 
investments, was always a potential risk to Mr Cs capital. It should be borne in mind that 
Mr C decided to sell his units within six months of his initial investment. And he did so for 
reasons unconnected with anything said, or done, by L&G. As the document above said, this 
was a long term investment and as L&G didnt advise Mr C to sell his units or to buy them, I 
dont think I can reasonably hold it responsible for his losses.I appreciate Mr C said the fund hadnt been as volatile prior to the changes made by L&G. 
But L&G has confirmed the valuation spread was around 7% prior to Mr Cs investment. 
Despite what Mr C says, Im not persuaded there is any connection between an increased 
volatility and the funds being moved to PMC. Even if it wasnt as volatile previously, there 
was no guarantee that it wouldnt be in the future.
But Mr C says he would not have invested in the first place if he hadnt been misled about 
the valuation spread reported in a L&G adviser fund fact sheet. The fact sheet referred to by 
Mr C is dated 31 July 2018. This clearly said it was an Adviser factsheet  not approved for 
retail customers. And the valuation spread of 1.09% was as of 02 February 2018. Under 
important information it said: the value of an investment is not guaranteed and may go up 
and down. The fact sheet also noted that it was updated monthly.
Therefore, the purpose of the adviser fact sheet wasnt for the purpose of making investment 
decisions by retail customers. Further, it was also only providing information at a particular 
point in time. The valuation spread was clearly out of date by the time Mr C switched to the 
property fund in October 2018. I cant reasonably or fairly hold L&G responsible for any 
losses that arose from Mr C placing reliance on this document.
Mr C maintains the swing from bid to offer price in the short time between him issuing his 
instructions to sell his units and the sale, was the result of L&Gs changes. In addition to 
what Ive said above, Im not persuaded this price fall was the result of the changes made by 
L&G even if this had resulted in a smaller fund. In its A guide to how we manage our unit-
linked funds document, under the heading How do we decide whether to value a fund on 
the offer or bid basis? L&G note that:
The basic principle is that a growing fund would normally be valued on the 
(higher) offer basis and a shrinking fund would normally be valued on the (lower) 
bid basis. This is because in a growing fund, assets will need to be bought at the 
higher prices as explained previously. If, on the other hand, the fund is shrinking, 
assets will need to be sold, resulting in policyholders receiving lower prices.
L&G has said prior to October 2018, there was a net of outflows and this is why the fund was 
largely at bid price. So, its the aggregate of the inflows as against the outflows that makes 
the difference to the bid/ offer price swings, not the size of the fund.
I can see Mr C benefited from a lower bid price when he bought into the fund. But L&G said 
this changed after October 2018, with more investing into the fund which meant the price did 
swing to offer for most of the time. And I can see when Mr C instructed to sell his units, the 
price was at offer. However, by the time Mr Cs units were sold, the pricing had changed to 
bid. This was unfortunate but the potential to lose money as well as make gains was part of 
the investing risk which would have been outlined in the fund fact sheet.
In terms of the further points raised by Mr C, as Ive said, I dont think any of his arguments 
raise anything substantially new and have been addressed in what Ive said above. But I will 
deal with some of his points where it would help to clarify my reasoning. 
I know Mr C says there was no L&G document that said a property fund had a typical swing 
of 8.5% when he invested in 2018. I accept some of the documents I referred to above are 
undated. But I think its likely there would have been general information about the types of 
risks that could be expected when investing in property funds. Generally speaking, these 
risks can be more significant than other, more liquid, types of funds. And I think its likely 
L&Gs documents at the time (October 2018) would have set this out in general terms. Mr C says he had to place his trade over the phone rather than via his online account. But I 
think its likely that in 2018, there would have been documents about investing with L&G, that 
would have been available on its website without the need to access his online account. And 
I know Mr C thinks the general warnings as contained in the fund fact sheet and elsewhere, 
wasnt sufficient to cover the specific risks associated with his particular investment. But as 
L&G wasnt providing Mr C with an advised service, it was for him to carry out his own 
research before making a decision to invest in the way that he did.
I appreciate Mr C wasnt told about the property fund having a 7% valuation spread. But my 
reason for raising this was to show the changes werent likely to be the reason for any 
increased volatility as it was still, typically, 7% prior to the changes. I also dont think theres 
any persuasive evidence to support that the changes resulted in any more outflows/ inflows 
from investors. There are many reasons why investors invest or disinvest at a particular 
point in time. The size of the fund is only one of many factors. 
L&G has confirmed it doesnt publish its valuation spreads for any investment fund. So, Mr C 
is correct to say that he would not have known about the valuation spread of 7%. I know Mr 
C thinks L&G should publish this type of information. But I consider its a legitimate business 
decision for L&G to make about what information it thinks is appropriate to publish.
As Ive said above, I dont think L&G misled Mr C about the risks associated with the fund. I 
appreciate he thinks L&G should have told him about the size of the fund after the Mature 
Savings part was sold to another business. But all the assets belonging to the Workplace 
investors hadnt been affected other than being moved to a different part of the business. So, 
I dont think L&Gs letter about the changes was unclear, unfair or misleading.
Mr C has reiterated that if hed known more details about the changes, he would not have 
invested at all. As Ive said above, given hed placed reliance on the advisers fact sheet, I 
think its likely he would still have bought the units. I know Mr C now says he didnt, in fact, 
place reliance on this document, but all his previous statements said he had done so. So, I 
cant fairly say that knowing more details of the changes wouldve changed his decision to 
invest in the property fund when he did.
For all these reasons, whilst I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman