DRN-3400238
The complaint
Miss Rs complaint is about shares she brought through Templeton Securities Limited (at the 
time an appointed representative of Alexander David Securities Limited). Miss R says the 
shares werent suitable for her and Templeton Securities didnt act in her best interests.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 22 February 2022. I set out the 
background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here. 
Miss R says she was advised to transfer her existing personal pension to a self invested
personal pension (SIPP). The adviser also advised her to invest in shares in two companies
 Emmit plc and Eligere Investments plc.
Miss R completed Templeton Securities Private Client Portfolio Agreement and Application
Booklet on 9 May 2014. Under the heading, What to expect as a client of Templeton
Securities, it said:
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as an
independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private client
investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit individual client
needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which will
enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we are
unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
And, under the heading, Important information regarding your application, it said that
Templeton Securities was required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(FSMA) to provide suitable investment advice and services, based on the information Miss R
provided about her circumstances.
Miss R had to fill out her personal details. In the section headed Important Financial
information the form said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and liabilities,
and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when assessing the
suitability of our investment management service we provide.
Miss R didnt own her own property, she had no savings or other assets and her total net
worth (she had no long or short term liabilities) was £23,000 which was the value of her
pension plan. Her total monthly income was £1,196 pm and her total expenditure £850 pm,
giving her a surplus of £346 pm. Under investment risk and objectives she indicated she was
a novice investor in equities, fixed interest and alternative assets but intermediate for funds.
Both Medium and Medium/High were ticked for her preferred level of portfolio risk. She
indicated her time horizon was more than seven years and Advisory Broking as her
previous level of investment experience. Details given earlier in the form recorded that she
was 50 years old, single, and looking to retire in 2024.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of
investments for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we have
received and which I agree to.
Ive referred below to what some of those term and conditions said.
Miss Rs account with Templeton Securities was opened and £23,840 was transferred into it.
Templeton Securities sent Miss R a welcome letter on 20 May 2014. It included the
following:
We note your interest in high risk products. Investments in smaller companies, in particular
Penny Shares and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small unquoted
companies, involve a high risk that all or part of your investment may be lost. You may also
have difficulty in selling these shares at a reasonable price and in some circumstances you
may not be able to sell at any price. There can be a big difference between the buying and
the selling price and if they have to be sold immediately, you may get back much less than
you paid for them.
On 22 May 2014 Miss R sent an email to Templeton Securities. After giving her name and
reference details the email said:
I wish to invest £11,765.00 in Eligere investments pic (ELI) gxg listed securities with a 55
pence limit for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £11,765.00 in Emmit pic (EMT) aim listed securities with a £1.75 limit for T1
settlement.
Please advise me via email when this has been transacted.
The investments were made on 22 May 2014.
Templeton Securities wrote to Miss R on 11 September 2014. The letter, headed
Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit, said:
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type of
stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel it's appropriate to invest
in such high-risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these 'Execution Only* but wish to advise that
in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not benefit
from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA [Financial Conduct Authority] Conduct
of Business Rules.
The FCA issued a statement about the promotion of shares in Emmit on 31 October 2014. It
said it had been made aware that individuals were being encouraged to transfer money from
their work pension schemes into SIPPs and use that money to buy shares in Emmit. It said
some investors were being offered cash back on their investments in Emmit of up to 30%
of the transfer value, paid by a third party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors
appeared to have invested 100% of their pension assets into Emmit shares and could suffer
significant financial loss if theyd done that without fully understanding what they were doing.Trading of shares in Emmit was suspended in October 2014 and the shares were delisted in
May 2015. The exchange on which the Eligere shares had been listed, GXG, closed in
August 2015 which meant that those shares couldnt be traded. Both investments are now
valued at zero.
Miss R lodged a complaint with Templeton Securities through her representative, a claims
management company, in August 2018. The complaint alleged that Miss R was given
unsuitable advice to transfer her pension and invest in unsuitable assets, as she was a low
risk investor with very little investment experience. The representative argued that
Templeton Securities had failed in its regulatory obligations.
Templeton Securities didnt uphold the complaint. It said it hadnt provided Miss R with any
financial advice and had acted on her email instruction to invest. It had opened and operated
a trading account in line with its terms and conditions. Execution only investing wasnt
precluded, as was the case with the Emmit and Eligere shares  the terms and conditions of
Miss Rs account say advice wont be given where the client isnt expecting it.
The complaint was brought to this service. Our investigator upheld it. In summary he said
Miss Rs complaint wasnt isolated and what had happened to her appeared to have
happened to a number of investors at about the same time. Given her lack of investment
experience, it seems unlikely that shed suddenly decide to invest her life savings in two
obscure shares. Moreover, the language of the email was technical in nature, and suggests
knowledge of securities that Miss R didnt have. And wed seen other emailed instructions
with very similar wording sent on the same day. Templeton Securities shouldve concluded
there was likely some connection between supposedly disparate customers with little
investment experience all spontaneously deciding to invest in the same, non mainstream,
shares with emails sent on the same day with identical wording.
Templeton Securities wasnt obliged to carry out all instructions and had some discretion. It
was also subject to the regulators Treating Customers Fairly Principles. Principle 1 states
that a firm should conduct its business with integrity. Principle 6 says a firm should pay due
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Templeton Securities shouldve
concluded that a third party, most likely an unregulated firm, was responsible for Miss Rs
investment instructions and carried out further investigations. Had it done so, and concluded
that Miss R and others were acting on instructions from an unregulated individual acting in
breach of the general prohibition in section 19 of FSMA, it wouldve been obvious that the
investments were likely to be unsuitable. Templeton Securities shouldve exercised its
discretion not to act on Miss Rs instruction. The investigator didnt think Miss R wouldve
found a way to invest anyway, particularly as shed denied getting any incentive payment.
Templeton Securities didnt accept the investigators view. As agreement couldnt be
reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to an act or
omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed activities, including regulated
activities (see Dispute Resolution (DISP) 2.3.1R).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments (article
25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to provideadvice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only sale.
Im required, under DISP 3.6.4R, in considering whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of all the available
evidence and the wider circumstances.
The documentation and literature that was provided at the time the Private Client
Portfolio account was opened with Templeton Securities clearly described it as providing an
advisory service. But the terms and conditions said that Templeton Securities was able to
accept execution only instructions in some circumstances. Ive considered whether
Templeton Securities acted correctly by accepting Miss Rs email of 22 May 2014 as an
execution only instruction to purchase shares in Emmit plc and Eligere Investments plc. Ive
referred below to what I see as the central provisions of the terms and conditions of Miss Rs
agreement with Templeton Securities.
Clause 3 said:
3. The services we will provide
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in
a non-complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product
investment recommendations [my emphasis]. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms &
Conditions should be treated as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any
product. We will action all instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are
only able to act on the instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what
instructions you should give us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you
make when you engage our services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept
responsibility on a continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio.
Miss R hadnt been designated as an execution only client. And shed supplied information
about her investment objectives, financial circumstances and the degree of risk she was
prepared to accept. But, as Ive highlighted above, clause 3.1 provided for the situation
where, even though information had been given, it might be reasonable for Templeton
Securities to believe that Miss R wasnt expecting it to advise about the merits of a particular
transaction in non complex financial instrument. In that scenario Templeton Securities
wouldnt make any recommendations. Non complex wasnt defined. But I think, taking into
account what COBS 10.4.1R said (as Ive set out below), investments in Emmit and Eligere
shares were non complex financial instruments.
Clause 3.1 was echoed in clause 6, headed, Appropriateness.
6.1 In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject to
an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the
contemplated product or service for you by determining whether you have the necessary
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the specific
type of product or service offered or demanded. In such circumstances, where on the basis
of information received we consider that the contemplated product or service is not
appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that effect.Applicable Regulation was defined as meaning FCA rules or any other rules of a relevant
regulatory authority or any other rules of a relevant Market and all other applicable laws,
rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
I think thats a reference to COBS 10. Ive considered that and in particular COBS 10.4
which is headed Assessing appropriateness: when it need not be done. COBS 10.4.1R (1)
said (at the time):
A firm is not required to ask its client to provide information or assess appropriateness if:
(a) the service only consists of execution and/or the reception and transmission
of client orders, with or without ancillary services, it relates to particular financial
instruments and is provided at the initiative of the client;
(b) the client has been clearly informed (whether the warning is given in a standardised
format or not) that in the provision of this service the firm is not required to assess the
suitability of the instrument or service provided or offered and that therefore he does not
benefit from the protection of the rules on assessing suitability; and
(c) the firm complies with its obligations in relation to conflicts of interest.
The particular financial instruments, referred to in subsection (a), are set out in COBS
10.4.1R (2) and include shares admitted to trading on a regulated market (for example, AIM).
I think (a) is satisfied. I havent seen anything to suggest there was any conflict of interest as
mentioned in (c). But I dont think (b) was met. Templeton Securities has pointed to its terms
and conditions (see, for example, clause 6.4 mentioned below). But, while a warning in
standardised form was permitted, I think (b) requires a warning to be given at the time of the
particular service. It says, in the provision of this [my emphasis] service. That means a
specific warning (albeit that in might be in a standardised format) has to be given at the time.
And thats consistent with Templeton Securities own terms and conditions  see clause 6.4
which says:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular transaction
if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, you are not
expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the transaction
relates to noncomplex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and UCITS, we will
inform you at the time [my emphasis] that we will execute your order on that basis and we
will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate for you. Please
note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the relevant FCA Rules
requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
I havent seen that Templeton Securities gave Miss R the requisite warning at the time.
That said, I dont think much turns on that. I dont think a failure to give a warning at the time
(as required by COBS 10.4.1R and Templetons own terms and conditions) means that
Templeton Securities couldnt accept an execution only instruction from Miss R. I think the
more important question is whether, as clause 6.4 (and clause 3.1) required, Templeton
Securities reasonably believed that Miss R wasnt expecting advice and was dealing on an
execution only basis.
I note here what our investigator said about the email of 22 May 2014 and its wording. I
agree the wording was, in some respects, technical. I dont think anyone without some
financial services experience, including in securities transactions, would be familiar with or
understood how a request to purchase shares with a 55 pence limit for T3 settlement or a
£1.75 limit for T1 settlement would operate. Nor do I think a novice equities investor such
as Miss R wouldve necessarily understood what an AIM or GXG listed security was andhow that differed from a stock that was listed on, for example, the London Stock Exchange. I
note Miss R had indicated she had some advisory broking investment experience. But no
further details were given and Im not sure how credible that was.
But, in any event, I dont think the wording of the email on its own meant that Templeton
Securities shouldve queried Miss Rs instruction. If anything, it might reinforce Templeton
Securities belief that Miss R wasnt expecting advice. It might appear shed taken advice
from another party. On the face of it, it appeared to be a valid instruction. It was clear and
specific. It looked like Miss R had made a settled decision to invest in Emmit and Eligere. I
dont think theres anything in her email which suggests she was expecting Templeton
Securities to give her any advice about the transactions. I think the indication is that shed
made a decision to invest and she expected Templeton Securities to simply comply with her
instruction and go ahead and make the purchases.
And clause 4.9, about Specific client instruction, said:
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions. Where your instructions
relate to only part of the order, we will continue to apply our order execution policy to those
aspects of the order not covered by your specific instructions.
4.9.2 You should be aware that providing specific instructions to us in relation to the
execution of a particular order may prevent us from taking the steps set out in our order
execution policy to obtain the best possible result in respect of the elements covered by
those instructions. We reserve the right to refuse specific instructions from you regarding the
execution of your order, where in our opinion such instructions are not practicable or may be
contrary to your best interests.
I dont overlook what the investigator said about the other similar emails and which Ive
referred to below. But, just looking at Miss Rs email for the time being and in more or less
isolation, I dont think Templeton Securities acted incorrectly in treating it as an execution
only instruction.
That meant, and in accordance with clause 3.1 (see the penultimate sentence Ive quoted
from that provision above), Templeton Securities didnt accept responsibility for the
investment decision which Miss R had made when shed engaged Templeton Securities as
an execution only customer.
But I dont think thats the end of the matter. Ive gone on to consider if Templeton Securities
shouldve accepted Miss Rs instruction. As Ive gone on to explain, I think there were wider
factors which shouldve led Templeton Securities to question or look more closely at her
instruction and whether it should comply with it.
Id reiterate (as set out above) that Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances of a case. Templeton Securities received a significant number of requests
to open this type of advisory account with it, all within a relatively short period. And, very
shortly after the accounts were opened, emailed instructions with almost identical wording
were sent to Templeton Securities instructing investment in the one or two particular and
niche shares.
By the time Templeton Securities received Miss Rs instruction (22 May 2014), it had
received some six or so emails only the previous day from different investors. They were all
instructions to invest in these shares, with near identical wording, and sent to the same
person at Templeton Securities (who I understand held the CF30 function with Alexander
David Securities Limited at that time). This was all very shortly after the accounts had beenopened. Miss Rs emailed instruction was one of at least three very similar, if not identical,
instructions received on 22 May 2014.
To date weve received over 20 complaints against Templeton Securities, representing
Alexander David Securities Limited, about very similar transactions that all happened at
around the same time. From what Ive seen, in all cases emails with the same or very similar
investment instructions were sent to the same person at Templeton Securities. And these
are only the cases where investors have complained and the matter has been referred to us.
I think its very probable that there are other instances of which Im not aware and where no
complaint has been made and referred to us.
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that duty
wasnt unqualified.
First, Templeton Securities had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any order
or instruction from Miss R. Clause 3.7 said:
We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or instigate
certain conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
Secondly, Templeton Securities, as a regulated firm and in accordance with its own terms
and conditions, had an obligation to comply with the FCAs rules. Clause 2.2 said:
These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable Regulations. The
term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by the
FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any
Applicable Regulations, the latter will prevail;
(ii) nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall exclude or restrict any obligation
which we have to you under any Applicable Regulations;
(iii) we may take or omit to take any action we consider necessary to ensure
compliance with any Applicable Regulations; and
(iv) such actions that we take or omit to take for the purposes of compliance with
any Applicable Regulations shall not render us or any of our directors, officers,
employees or agents liable to you.
The duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the terms and conditions as an
overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those terms. And that
Templeton Securities could take, or omit to take, any action it considered necessary (such
as not complying with a clients instruction) to ensure compliance with its regulatory
obligations.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through the
application of its Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton Securities
was providing regulated financial services and was bound by these Principles and Rules (for
example COBS) and as set out in the terms and conditions.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the Principles. Ive borne in mindwhat the courts have said (see, for example, Ouseley Js comments in British Bankers
Association v The Financial Services & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin)) about how the
Principles operate in deciding whether Templeton Securities complied with them, taking into
account what Ive said above about the wider circumstances and in the context of the
instruction Miss R gave on 22 May 2014. I think Principles 2, 3 and 6 are particularly relevant
here. They say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
Here Templeton Securities had received at least six emails the previous day and Miss Rs
email was one of at least three instructions given the next day; all the emails were sent to
the same person; there was a pattern of remarkably similarly worded execution only
instructions from different clients with SIPP accounts. All wanted Templeton Securities to
process purchases in the same niche shares, traded on non mainstream markets.
I think in these circumstances a stockbroker ought reasonably to have been alerted to the
possibility that something unusual might be going on. In my view, the circumstances ought to
have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in the normal processing of the
transactions and take a closer look behind them. If it had done so, it would have identified
that the instructions were coming from ordinary retail customers who:
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of time 
from opening were all sending execution only instructions to make their first 
investment;
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in these same niche 
shares presenting significant risks which werent the type of investments that 
would normally be expected to form the significant part of anyones pension 
provision;
had sent almost identically worded instructions to invest in the same niche 
share(s), suggesting these retail consumers may be being systematically advised 
by someone to buy these shares and on how to go about it.
And that was in the context that:
Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And a
regulated firm giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions
themselves so as to charge dealing commission. It raised the possibility of serious
malpractice if an unauthorised person was giving investment advice in breach of
section 19 of FSMA.
The number of grouped instructions to purchase niche shares, specifying particular
days for settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly 
unconnected retail customers. Including settlement details in their instructions was
not only unusual but served no obvious purpose from a pension investors point of
view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an unauthorized
person was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension funds in the shares
of one or two small, obscure companies: a FCA authorised firm would have
regulatory obligations not to give unsuitable investment advice, and would be unlikelyto find such shares a suitable pension investment for many (if any) of their clients, let
alone a string of clients, and all at around the same time.
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Miss Rs instruction ought
reasonably to have caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction.
Had it done so and looked at the information it already had available through the account
opening documentation, it wouldve seen that Miss Rs only asset was her pension plan with
a value of £23,000. She had a relatively modest income, only a small amount of disposable
income, no savings, other investments or assets and she didnt own her own property. Shed
indicated a medium or medium high attitude to risk. She didnt have any capacity for loss
and she apparently wanted to invest all of her pension fund and her entire net worth in two
niche shares which werent traded on mainstream markets and when she had no experience
of investing in equities.
I understand that Templeton Securities has said that the unregulated firm wasnt known to it.
And it didnt have any discussions or agreement with it or any arrangement of any kind for
the introduction of business or otherwise. According to what Miss R said on her complaint
form, shed been in contact with Templeton Securities first whod then introduced her to
another adviser. And it was that adviser who recommended the transfer and subsequent
investments in Emmit and Eligere. In other cases weve seen I dont think its been
suggested that the introduction to an adviser (who was unregulated) came from Templeton
Securities itself. But I dont think anything turns on this. I havent looked at the complaint on
the basis that Templeton Securities had any link with whoever advised Miss R to transfer
and invest in Emmit and Eligere. Ive considered the complaint from the perspective of what
Templeton Securities shouldve done when it received Miss Rs instruction to invest in Emmit
and Eligere.
I think, if Templeton Securities had looked into things further, it wouldve discovered,
relatively easily, that in Miss Rs (and others) case, an unregulated firm, was the common
denominator and that the many and similarly worded instructions had come from that firm.
Had Templeton Securities queried the instruction with Miss R and explained its concerns, I
cant see that shed have had any reason not to tell Templeton Securities whod suggested
the investment.
Giving investment advice and arranging deals in investments are regulated activities.
Section 19 of FSMA)  the general prohibition  says that no person may carry on a
regulated activity in the UK, or purport to do so unless they are an authorised person. But I
dont see that Miss R (or other ordinary retail clients) wouldve been aware of the general
prohibition or that the business she was dealing with wasnt an authorised firm and the
significance of that. I dont doubt that Miss R (and others) would simply have trusted the
unregulated firm and assumed that its adviser was acting lawfully and in her best interests.
If Miss R had said that another business was involved and, if Templeton Securities had
checked out that business status, it wouldve found out that it was unregulated. Knowing
that an unregulated firm was involved ought, I think, to have rung alarm bells with Templeton
Securities  it seemed an unauthorised person was advising Miss R (and others) to invest in
niche, high risk shares.
I think Templeton Securities wouldve been able to identify from a fairly cursory look at the
information it held about Miss Rs circumstances, that the investment advice shed received
 to invest a very substantial sum, representing her entire pension fund and only asset, in
two niche high risk shares  was wholly unsuitable for her. And that she wasnt, for
her own particular reasons, instructing an unsuitable order, given that so many other,
relatively new (and advisory) and inexperienced clients were giving virtually identicalinstructions in similar circumstances. I think Templeton Securities ought to have realised that
it was likely that a third party was behind all the highly similar and somewhat unusual
instructions. At that point I think Templeton Securities shouldve exercised its discretion to
decline to accept the instruction.
Against that background, I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under
Principles 2, 3 and 6. If it had conducted its business with skill care and diligence and taken
reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with
adequate risk management systems, it shouldve identified the high number of execution
only requests from relatively new advisory clients. And that there were striking and unusual
similarities in those requests. I think that shouldve led Templeton Securities to take a closer
look at the instructions.
If it had done so, Templeton Securities wouldve discovered that Miss R (and others) were
being advised by an unregulated adviser who was assisting them in making high risk and
unsuitable investments. Given the clear risk of consumer detriment, Templeton Securities,
and acting in Miss Rs best interests, shouldve exercised its discretion and declined to
accept her instruction.
Templeton Securities did write to Miss R about her investment in Emmit shares and the fact
that it was high risk in September 2014. Templeton Securities has said, that at the time of
the share purchases, there was no indication that a third party was involved. And that only
came to light when the FCA issued its warning. But that wasnt until October 2014 so
something else must have prompted Templeton Securities to write. Its told us that it wrote to
customers following a review carried out by its compliance officer because of the number of
transactions in Emmit and the rumours that were circulating around the market about people
investing in it.
If Templeton Securities did write to some customers and for the reasons given, I think that
supports what Ive said  that Templeton Securities shouldve realised from the volume of
similar, if not identical, business that it was receiving that something unusual and untoward
might be going on and which required further investigation.
Principle 3 requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. I think Templeton
Securities shouldve had systems and controls in place which, in the circumstances Ive set
out above, wouldve meant a pattern was spotted at a very early stage.
Templeton Securities shouldve exercised its discretion under clause 3.7 to decline to carry
out Miss Rs instruction to purchase the Emmit and Eligere shares. It shouldve realised that
there was a real risk of consumer detriment. It was in a position to prevent the purchase of
the shares. Instead it facilitated Miss Rs investments. I think Templeton Securities failed in
its regulatory obligations by acting on Miss Rs instruction.
Ive gone on to consider what Miss R wouldve done if Templeton Securities had declined to
carry out her instruction.
I think a refusal and an explanation from Templeton Securities as to why it wasnt prepared
to carry out Miss Rs instruction wouldve carried weight. And given her pause for thought
about whether investing in Emmit and Eligere Investments was really a good idea.
Depending on how Templeton Securities might have put things to Miss R and what may
have been said about the dangers of accepting advice from an unauthorised person and the
high risk nature of the investments, Miss R may have decided immediately that she didnt
want anything further to do with the unregulated firm. I recognise she may have been dealingwith the unregulated adviser for some time and presumably trusted them. But I think an
indication from Templeton Securities, a regulated firm, that what she was being told to do by
someone who wasnt authorised to give financial advice anyway, is likely to have caused
Miss R to think again about the wisdom of investing as had been suggested. I think, in that
scenario, Miss R wouldve asked Templeton Securities for advice as to how to invest instead
and in line with her attitude to risk and circumstances.
If Miss R had still wanted to proceed as planned then, as shed already transferred funds to
Templeton Securities and if it had declined to purchase the shares, shed have needed to
have found another broker, asked the SIPP provider to get the money back from Templeton
Securities and then transfer it into the new account. I think that wouldve caused practical
difficulties for Miss R and is likely to have been enough to have made her think again.
Im aware that in some cases investors received a payment in return for investing. Miss R
has said that she didnt get any payment. Weve asked her for copies of her bank statements
to verify what she says. Im issuing this provisional decision subject to sight of that further
evidence and well let Alexander David know what we find out before any final decision is
issued. But, as things stand, it doesnt seem that Miss R was motivated by the promise of an
incentive payment.
As Ive said, Templeton Securities wrote to Miss R about her investment in Emmit in
September 2014. As that letter was sent before the Emmit shares were suspended (in
October 2014), there may be some argument that Miss R couldve done something to
mitigate her position by trying to sell the shares. Templeton Securities has said that the
share price was then 132.50p. A sale at that price would still have represented a loss for
Miss R but shed have avoided the total loss of her investment which she now faces.
But selling wouldve crystallised a loss. And I dont know if Miss R wouldve been able to sell
and, if so, at what price. A sudden and large volume of sell instructions might not have been
possible for the market to accommodate and is likely to have impacted adversely on the
share price  I bear in mind that Templeton Securities appears to have written to other
investors at about the same time.
More importantly, I dont think the letter was sufficient to prompt investors to act. It was
relatively brief. It did draw to Miss Rs attention the high risk nature of the investment. And
that Templeton Securities hadnt assessed suitability. But the letter didnt indicate there were
any particular problems with the investment. I dont think the wording was sufficiently strong
or specific such as ought to have prompted Miss R to act. Further the letter only referred to
Emmit  Eligere wasnt mentioned. I dont think the letter meant that Miss R shouldve acted
to mitigate her losses. Or that her losses should be limited to what theyd have been if shed
sold her Emmit shares on receipt of that letter.
Ive also mentioned above the welcome letter sent to Miss R on 20 May 2014. It referred, in
particular, to Penny Shares and investments in small unquoted companies. Both Emmit and
Eligere were public limited companies and their shares were traded on recognised (albeit
non mainstream) markets. I dont think Miss R wouldve realised the warnings given in that
letter might apply to the investments she went on to make in Emmit and Eligere.
Lastly, and for completeness, Ive also considered the application of sections 27 and 28 of
FSMA. And, in doing so, Ive borne in mind the findings in the Court of Appeal case of
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (formerly Carey Pensions UK LLP) [2021]
EWCA Civ 474.
In summary, section 27 may apply where an authorised person (here Templeton Securities)
makes an agreement with another person (Miss R) in the course of carrying out a regulatedactivity, which was a consequence of something said or done by a third party (here the
unregulated firm) acting in breach of the general prohibition (section 19 of FSMA). Section
27 provides that an agreement to which it applies is unenforceable against the other party
and sets out what the other party can recover. Section 28 provides the court with the
discretion to allow an agreement to which section 27 applies to be in any event enforced, if it
considers it is just and equitable to do so.
Given the facts of Miss Rs complaint and the surrounding circumstances as Ive set out
above, I think its most likely the unregulated firm was in breach of the general prohibition by
arranging deals in and advising on investments  articles 25 and 53 of the RAO. And I think
the advice and the unregulated firms actions in providing Miss R with her draft purchase
instruction clearly played a crucial part in her buying the shares. As Ive explained, I think
its unlikely that so many ordinary retail clients would suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest
in these little known niche shares at around the same time. I think a court would find that
section 27 applies, and Miss R can (subject to section 28), recover the monies she invested
through her agreement with Templeton Securities when it accepted her instructions to
purchase the shares and the investment losses she sustained.
Ive gone on to consider section 28. I think the overriding question is set out in section 28 (3)
 that is whether it would be just and equitable in the circumstances of the case to allow
enforcement of the agreement or retention of the price paid. The significance of sections 28
(4) and (6) is to require the court to have regard to whether the firm knew the third party
was breaching the general prohibition. But, as the Court of Appeal emphasised, meeting
the requirements of section 28 (6) will not necessarily mean that relief should be granted.
So, whilst it has to be taken into account, that factor isnt necessarily determinative. And the
question of whether the firm should reasonably have known the general prohibition was
being breached is something that it may be proper to take into account, but again it isnt a
determinative test, just a potentially relevant circumstance in some cases.
I think, in deciding section 28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Miss Rs case, the
court would, as it did in Adams v Options, look at all the circumstances in the round. For the
reasons Ive set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that shouldve
reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients were being put in
harms way and that theyd been given the same unsuitable advice by the same unregulated
source. As Ive said, I dont think Templeton Securities acted reasonably in ignoring those
signals of potential wrongdoing. And I think, whilst the court would take into account
Templeton Securities may not have had actual knowledge of the breach, looking at the
circumstances in the round, had it acted reasonably  rather than ignore those clear
warnings  it wouldve discovered the breach on making reasonable enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to allow
Templeton Securities relief under section 28. And so I think Miss R could recover her money
under section 27.
In reaching my conclusions Ive borne in mind that Templeton Securities wasnt the only
business involved. I accept that the unregulated firm played a central role  it was behind the
transfer to the SIPP, the setting up of Miss Rs account with Templeton Securities and her
instruction to invest in Emmit and Eligere. I have no power to investigate a complaint against
an unregulated firm. But Templeton Securities was a regulated firm and bound by the
regulators Rules and Principles. I think, for the reasons Ive explained, that Templeton
Securities failed to meet its regulatory obligations to Miss R.
Templeton Securities shouldve realised there was a clear possibility of detriment to Miss R
and acted to prevent that. In my view, Miss Rs losses flow from Templeton Securitiesfailings and so its fair and reasonable that Templeton Securities should redress Miss R for
those losses. If Templeton Securities considers that some other party is responsible, in
whole or in part for Miss Rs losses, I dont think Miss R, if her losses are met in full by
Templeton Securities, would decline to assign any rights she might have against any other
party to Templeton Securities/Alexander David Securities Limited.
Weve been told that the FCA conducted an investigation into Templeton Securities with
regard to both Eligere and Emmit, including a full review of all telephone calls and emails but
then dropped the investigation, deciding that there was no case to answer and no
wrongdoing found on Templeton Securities part. But in the absence of full details of that
investigation (which weve requested but which havent been forthcoming) Im not sure that
the FCA was investigating the same matter, or that the outcome was as suggested. Im
considering if Templeton Securities met its obligations to Miss R in its dealing with her. For
the reasons Ive set out, I dont think it did.
In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold the 
complaint. I went on to set out what I considered was fair compensation. I asked both parties 
to provide any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider before I made my 
final decision. 
Weve received a reply on behalf of Alexander David. It said my provisional decision had 
missed fundamental issues and had failed to take fully into account the following:  
Previous Financial Ombudsman Service rulings.
That the FCA had conducted a thorough investigation into TS Capital in regard to 
Eligere and Emmit, including a full review of all telephone calls and emails. The FCA 
dropped its investigation as it decided there was no case to answer. No wrongdoing 
was found. 
It sympathised with Miss R and her loss and her involvement in what, with hindsight, 
was clearly an investment scam undertaken by unregulated entities. TS Capital 
accepted and undertook the instruction for the transaction on an execution only 
basis. It hadnt agreed to provide advisory services as per clause 3.2 of its terms and 
conditions.
The trade instructions came from a regulated pension provider  the SIPP provider  
who was technically the account holder. The account was a trust account opened by 
a regulated SIPP provider. Miss R was the beneficiary with powers to undertake 
transactions. At the time of her instruction, it wasnt unreasonable for TS Capital to 
accept the instruction and to conclude that it was an ordinary transaction(s) for 
investments listed on recognised exchanges. 
The terminology in the instruction wasnt necessarily technical for someone who had 
previously made any direct stock market investment, as Miss R had done. The nature 
of the instruction wasnt in itself, or in a series, necessarily unusual, given the 
account was opened with it by a regulated firm and clients could and did obtain and 
undertake investment research through a variety of mediums. Such as web and 
internet forums and tip services. At the point of the transaction it was unaware of any 
issues with the investments. 
It became aware of general market concerns in September 2014. It would have been 
appropriate and reasonable to alert investors of suitability concerns which is exactly 
what the letter sent in September 2014 did. It thought this was the date any fair and 
reasonable award should be calculated to as Miss R had a duty to mitigate any loss. 
She couldve sold the shares before they were suspended, and not suffered the total 
loss that she did. 
It queried why the incentive payment hadnt been deducted. It wasnt aware of the 
payment which it said was clearly a pension liberation attempt. Miss Rs version of events surrounding the payment wasnt consistent with the known facts about this 
issue as highlighted by the FCAs alert in October 2014. The key trigger for the 
scam was a promise of a cashback. This was the motivation for Miss R to transfer 
and subsequently send specific instructions to buy the shares in question. Her 
version of events was a disingenuous recollection of events and/or had been drafted 
by her representative. The ability to liberate some of her pension savings prior to the 
date she was allowed to access her pension was the most likely reason for the 
investments. 
It didnt accept that relief shouldnt be provided under section 28 (3). It said the 
introduction(s) all came directly from a regulated pension provider and it was 
technically the account holder and Miss R a beneficiary. It didnt believe that it was 
unreasonable to undertake and accept the specific execution only instructions from 
Miss R or the other clients at that time. Or for TS Capital to be unaware that an 
unregulated entity was contravening the general prohibition at the point the 
instruction was received and the investment was made. 
In my provisional decision I said that, as I far as I was aware, Miss R hadnt received any 
incentive payment. And that wed asked her for copies of her bank statements to verify that. I 
said wed let Alexander David know what we found out before any final decision was issued. 
Since then Miss R has produced a bank statement which shows a payment of £1,630.91 
made on 6 June 2014. When we asked about that, Miss Rs representative said, given the 
time that had elapsed, Miss R didnt recall the payment and what, if anything, had been said 
about it. We explained to Miss Rs representative that the timing, value and source of the 
payment was consistent with what wed seen in other cases and that we considered it was 
an incentive payment and that it should be taken into account in the redress. We also told   
Alexander David about the payment and that it would be allowed for in the redress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Miss Rs 
complaint. The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this 
decision. Although, as Ive explained below, Ive adjusted the redress to take into account 
the payment of £1,630.91.  
The response on behalf of Alexander David to my provisional decision referred to TS 
Capital. The firm was trading as Templeton Securities at the time of the event that the 
complaint is about. Ive taken the references to TS Capital as appropriately referring to 
Templeton Securities at the relevant time. 
In respect of the comments made, Im unsure as to what previous rulings made by this 
service are referred to. No final decision issued by an ombudsman has been cited. The 
reference may be to a view issued by one of our adjudicators or investigators. Their role is to 
try to resolve cases on an informal basis on the facts as they understand them. If the 
complaint cant be settled and is then referred to an ombudsman, it is considered afresh. Im 
not bound by what an adjudicator or investigator may have proposed. Ive made my decision 
here on the basis of what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
As I noted in my provisional decision, weve previously and in connection with other 
complaints, asked Alexander David to provide further details about the investigation carried 
out by the FCA. It sent a copy of a letter that the FCA had sent to Alexander David dated 12 November 2014. The letter said the FCA had appointed investigators to conduct an 
investigation into whether offences under section 89 of the Financial Services Act 2012; and 
or behaviour amounting to market abuse as defined in section 118 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) may have occurred. The letter went on to request various 
records relating to trades in Emmit plc, along with other trading records from certain account 
holders and account documentation from certain SIPP providers. 
We contacted Alexander David to say that it appeared that the FCA was investigating a 
different matter. And we explained that we were investigating the specific complaint made by 
the consumer concerned and whether Templeton Securities had met its obligations in its 
dealings with that consumer. We explained that wed consider any further evidence or 
arguments about this issue if it could provide more details. But no further evidence or 
arguments have been provided. So Im not satisfied that any investigation undertaken by the 
FCA is relevant here. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I accept that Templeton Securities undertook the 
instruction for the transactions on an execution only basis. However I dont think Templeton 
Securities wider obligations were diluted because the regulated SIPP provider was 
technically the account owner. This wasnt unusual and the instruction to invest came 
directly from Miss R. 
I accept that the terminology in the instruction may not necessarily have been technical for 
someone who had previously made direct stock market investment. And that investors can 
obtain tips or undertake their own research from a variety of mediums. So a firm might 
receive a number of orders for a particular investment at around the same time. But the 
situation here was that a series of emails were all sent to the same specific person, with near 
identical technical wording, giving very specific instructions to invest in particular niche 
shares. I think this suggested there was likely to be a single source behind the instructions. 
And that clients were being systematically advised by a third party to buy these shares and 
on how to go about it.
I note that it seems to be accepted that Miss R was the victim of some kind of scam, 
undertaken by unregulated entities. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I 
think the series of emails shouldve alerted Templeton Securities to the fact that something 
unusual might be going on, and ought to have been a trigger for it to intervene in the normal 
processing of Miss Rs instruction and take a closer look behind it. And, having done so, it 
wouldve identified the role of the unregulated firm(s). 
The letter sent by Templeton Securities to Miss R in September 2014 was headed 
Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit. So it wasnt concerned with her Eligere 
investment. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think the content of 
the letter was such that Miss R ought to have sold the shares (in Emmit or Eligere) or that 
she acted unreasonably by not selling them. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to say that 
compensation should be calculated on the basis that Miss R shouldve sold her shares 
following receipt of the September 2014 letter. 
I accept the payment of £1,630.91 may not have been known to Templeton Securities when 
it processed the instruction. I dont think this was a pension liberation attempt as such, but I 
accept that sort of cash sum was attractive and wouldve been a motivating factor for Miss R. 
I know shes said she doesnt recall anything about it. But, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
it was a payment in return for investing. I also think its likely Miss R did know at the time that 
shed get a payment. 
But, irrespective of the motivation behind it, if Templeton Securities had intervened in the 
processing, and said it wouldnt process her instruction, Miss R wouldve had to reconsider. I think its likely, if Templeton Securities had intervened and explained to Miss R that it wasnt 
prepared to process her instruction and why, that Miss R wouldve lost trust in the 
unregulated firm(s) who were driving the transactions. And, if shed still wanted to proceed, 
shed have needed to overcome practical difficulties. Shed already opened her account with 
Templeton Securities and money had been transferred into it. Shed have needed to get that 
money back and transfer it to a new dealing account with another firm in order to buy the 
shares. 
Templeton Securities says that Miss R had previously made direct stock market investment. 
But Im not sure that was the case. I note that the account opening documentation showed 
she was a novice investor in equities. It also said her preferred level of risk was 
medium/high. I dont think thats consistent with investing her entire and only pension fund 
(and her only asset) in high risk, niche, shares. I think that represented a higher degree of 
risk than shed said she was prepared to accept. There was a significant risk of loss of the 
entire amount invested, some £23,530. Relative to that and proportionately, the incentive 
payment of £1,630.91 was modest. Added to that were the practical difficulties Ive referred 
to in buying the shares if Templeton Securities had declined her instruction. Overall and on 
balance, I think its unlikely that Miss R wouldve invested in Emmit and Eligere had it not 
been for Templeton Securities failings.
For the reasons Ive set out above and in my provisional decision, Templeton Securities 
ought to have realised that something unusual was going on and made further enquiries 
about Miss Rs investment instructions. And, on doing so, it wouldve identified that it was 
likely that an unregulated firm was breaching the general prohibition. And, for the reasons I 
set out in my provisional decision, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to 
allow Templeton Securities relief under section 28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000. I think a court would find that Miss R could recover her money under section 27. So 
Im upholding Miss Rs complaint.
Putting things right  fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Miss R as close as possible
to the position shed probably now be in if Templeton Securities hadnt agreed to purchase
the shares for her account.
In that situation I think Miss R, having already completed the switch of her pension to the
SIPP, wouldve invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely what shed have done,
but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Miss Rs
circumstances and objectives when she invested.
what should Alexander David Securities Limited do?
To compensate Miss R fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Compare the performance of Miss R's investments with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable. It should also pay any interest set out below.
If theres a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Miss R's pension plan,
to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Miss R's
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The
notional allowance should be calculated using Miss R's actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at her selected retirement age. I think Miss R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her
selected retirement age. So the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax.
However, if Miss R wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Investment Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
Interest
The amounts FTSE UK Date of purchase Date of my final 8% simple a year
invested in Private of each share decision from the date of
Emmit Investors Total my final decision
(£11,765) and Return Index to the date of
Eligere settlement if
(£11,765) settlement isnt
including charges 
less a deduction of 
£1,630.91 divided 
equally so £815.45 
from eachmade within 28 
days of Alexander 
David Securities 
Limited being 
notified of Miss Rs 
acceptance of my 
final decision
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Pay Miss R £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has
caused her.
Provide details of the calculation to Miss R in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Miss R how much it has taken off. It should also give
Miss R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open (market), it
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities Limited should
take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the
SIPP provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance
paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual value
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David Securities
Limited may wish to require that Miss R provides an undertaking to pay it any amount she
may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Alexander
David Securities Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Miss R wouldve invested. But I think the index I have outlined
above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the degree of risk that
Miss R said she was willing to take.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Alexander David Securities Limited must redress Miss R as Ive set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman