DRN-4507171
The complaint
Miss G complains Erudio Student Loans Limited have added interest to her account when 
she was told they wouldnt. Shes also unhappy with the content of their letters and says 
theyre threatening her with potential legal action  which they also said they wouldnt.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant information below, and it forms part of this final decision. 
As a result of a different complaint regarding Erudios inability to provide clear account 
movements and calculations of the amount outstanding, on 11 October 2022 Erudio wrote to 
Miss G. In this letter they said the balance of her account remains outstanding  but no 
interest would be charged and they wouldnt pursue legal action in future. In a separate 
decision it was decided we couldnt look into the issues Miss G raised in this complaint 
because shed brought them to our service too late.
Following that complaint, Miss G was contacted on several occasions asking for repayment 
of a defaulted amount. In February 2023 Miss G was contacted again by Erudio, and they 
said theyd added interest to the account. Miss G complained, as she said shed been told 
they wouldnt add interest  and she wasnt happy with them threatening her in the letters.
Erudio said due to a system issue, when the previous complaint was closed on their 
systems, the updates led to interest being applied. They said sorry for this and removed the 
interest that had been added. In respect of the letter itself, they said the balance was 
outstanding, so they were sorry if Miss G was left feeling threatened by the contact, but they 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong. As the account is still outstanding, Erudio wanted to 
discuss the balance with Miss G. Overall they upheld her complaint and said they would 
send her a £50 cheque as compensation.
Miss G replied and said she has no intention of paying Erudio any further funds until they 
provide her with the necessary calculations to show the debt is owed to them. 
Ultimately unhappy with Erudios response, Miss G asked us to look into things. One of our 
Investigators did so and felt Erudios response to put matters right was fair. Miss G didnt 
accept this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before Miss Gs previous complaint, she was seemingly repaying the loan each month 
without any issues. So, it seems as though she accepts the loan account is hers.
With that in mind, I need to decide if Erudio have acted fairly when they contacted her with 
the letters asking her to repay the loan  and whether it was fair for them to add interest.
Erudio had said in the previous complaint they wouldnt be adding interest on to her account 
anymore. So, I can understand why Miss G wasnt happy when she received Erudios letter 
dated 21 February 2023 which showed interest had been added.
On 18 November 2022 Erudio first wrote to Miss G explaining shed not made a payment 
she was required to. Miss G herself has said shes stopped her direct debit  so this appears 
to be accurate. The next letter is dated 17 December 2022  and this letter includes the 
following:
Failure to make payment and/or contact us may result in legal proceedings to recover the 
full amount owed.
Another letter sent in December also refers to potentially taking legal action.
Miss G has said shes found them threatening. In context of the wording, I dont think the 
letters are. Theyre quite factual in nature explaining what Erudio may do if Miss G doesnt 
now make her payments. 
But I dont think it was fair for Erudio to add interest and say they might take legal action, 
after theyd said they wouldnt in her previous complaint. Ive noted Erudio said the interest 
was an error and Im pleased to see they refunded this. Overall though, I dont think this fully 
recognises the impact on Miss G and I think total compensation of £200 is fairer. I know 
Erudio said theyd send Miss G a cheque for £50 so if this has been cashed they can take 
this off the final amount they pay her. 
Going forward if Miss G doesnt pay her loan, and Erudio believe she legitimately owes it, 
then theyll likely continue to contact her. Id remind Erudio theyre required to provide 
Miss G with details of how to get help with debts if she feels she needs it.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party replied to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party replied to my provisional decision, I remain of the opinion £200 is fair 
compensation. As before, if Erudio have paid anything to Miss G, they can deduct this 
amount when finalising matters.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Erudio Student Loans Limited pay Miss G a total of £200 
compensation. They can deduct any compensation payments already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman