DRN-1924627
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way his insurance broker, Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd dealt 
with his medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M had a medical insurance policy which covered him and his family.
When he separated from his ex-wife, she contacted Arthur J. Gallagher and asked to be 
removed from the policy. Arthur J. Gallagher contacted the insurer, who, in turn, spoke to Mr 
Ms ex-wife directly and arranged for her to be removed from the policy. The insurer 
contacted Mr M to discuss the premiums at which point he raised a complaint as he hadnt 
been made aware that his ex-wife had been removed from the policy. 
Mr M says this was a GDPR breach and he should have been informed before changes to 
his policy were made. And so he made a formal complaint. Mr M says the response to the 
complaint and a refund cheque were sent to his old address where his ex-wife lives, and this 
is a further GDPR breach.
Arthur J Gallagher looked into the complaint and offered £100 compensation for the failure to 
let him know that his ex-wife had asked to be removed from the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr 
M referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Arthur J Gallagher needed to do 
anything further as it hadnt disclosed any confidential information and so £100 was 
appropriate for the failure to notify him that his ex-wife had asked to be removed from the 
policy. Mr M rejected this as he didnt think it was enough.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Arthur J. Gallagher needs to do anything more. Ill explain why. 
I should start by saying that my decision solely relates to the actions of Arthur J. Gallagher 
and not the insurer. 
Mr M received a call from his insurer which is when he became aware that his ex-wife had 
removed herself from the policy.  Mr M wasnt aware that his ex-wife had contacted Arthur J 
Gallagher before this and was unhappy that changes were made to his policy without his 
knowledge. Mr M raised a complaint as he felt this was in breach of GDPR. 
Ive considered the timeline of events to decide whether Arthur J. Gallagher need to do 
anything more. Ive seen that Mr Ms ex-wife contacted Arthur J. Gallagher and asked to be 
removed from the policy. Arthur J. Gallagher then contacted the insurer who asked for Mr 
Ms ex-wife to contact it directly. 
The insurer confirmed it acted on instructions from Arthur J. Gallagher and Mr Ms ex-wife. 
When Arthur J. Gallagher considered Mr Ms complaint, it said it should have told Mr M that 
his ex-wife had asked to be removed. For this failure, it offered Mr M £100 compensation 
which I consider is reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because there is no evidence 
that any confidential information was disclosed to Mr Ms ex-wife. Even if Arthur J. Gallagher 
had informed Mr M that his ex-wife wanted to be removed from the policy, the end result 
would have been the same  that Mr Ms ex-wife would be removed from the policy. 
Mr M says there was a GDPR breach, but I havent seen anything to suggest this is the 
case. Mr M can ask the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to consider any potential 
GDPR breaches if he remains unhappy.
Mr M has also complained that Arthur J. Gallagher sent its response to his complaint and a 
refund to his old address where his ex-wife lives. Any complaints about a premium refund 
would be about the insurer and so I wont comment on that here. In relation to the address, I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr M informed Arthur J. Gallagher he had moved and so it 
sent its response to his last known address. I can see why he would be frustrated about this, 
but I dont think Arthur J. Gallagher has done anything wrong as theres no evidence that Mr 
M informed it of his new address.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd needs to do 
anything further. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman