DRN-1228138
 
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wont help it to deal 
with an international payment that was credited to the wrong account.
What happened
T sent a payment for the sterling equivalent of £424.99 to a beneficiary abroad. It contacted 
RBS when the beneficiary said that the payment had not been received. RBS contacted its 
intermediary bank a number of times. It received a message to say that the receiving bank 
had credited the money to the credit card account of the beneficiary by mistake. And that it 
would be contacting the beneficiary about this. T said that the beneficiary maintained that the 
money had not been received and did not think that RBS had done enough to help it resolve 
this.
Our investigator did not recommend that RBS do anything more. T had said that the 
beneficiary did not have a credit card. But that was not something he could verify. The 
beneficiary bank had taken responsibility for not crediting the correct account. He could only 
look at the actions of RBS and it had chased up the beneficiary bank about the payment.
T did not agree. A mistake had been made and there was no proposed solution. The director 
had no access to the intermediary bank. And the beneficiary had not received the money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS used an intermediary bank to make the payment on to the bank of the beneficiary. 
Theres nothing to suggest it or the intermediary made any mistake in the way the payment 
for T was sent. When T said it hadnt arrived, RBS contacted the intermediary and then 
passed on what it had been told. The beneficiary bank indicated that firstly the money had 
been received and secondly that it had been credited to an account of the beneficiary. 
Clearly that position is not ideal for T which expected its payment instruction to be made to 
the correct account. But thats not something RBS can be held responsible for. Its traced the 
payment and I dont think it can reasonably do anything further. I appreciate the difficulty for 
T but the evidence it that this is something the beneficiary bank was going to resolve with its 
account holder. T hasnt provided any further evidence to support what its said and I can 
only look here at what RBS did.
I know T will be disappointed when I say that I think RBS took reasonable efforts to locate 
this payment and provide information about what happened to it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman