DRN-2490282
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc has mis-sold them three endowment policies 
for repaying mortgages 
What happened
Santander said it wasnt responsible for the sale of one of the policies and there werent any 
records of another. But in relation to the policy ending 605, it agreed to uphold the complaint 
as it had insufficient records to demonstrate the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms 
needs and circumstances, when it was sold in 1998. 
Santander carried out a comparison with a repayment mortgage and offered £3,105.93 
representing the financial loss Mr and Mrs M had suffered as a result of the sale of the 
policy. This took into account the policy having been surrendered in June 2003 and it added 
8% simple interest per annum on the loss to the date of the offer to reach the above amount. 
Our investigator concluded the calculation was in-line with what we would expect a business 
to do when it agreed an endowment policy had been mis-sold. She also agreed Santanders 
outcomes in regard to the other two policies.
 
Mr and Mrs M accepted the outcome on the basis the interest would be recalculated on the 
offer. As our approach is that interest is calculated until the date of settlement, the 
investigator clarified this with Santander. However, it disagreed as this hadnt been in the 
investigators view. It also queried how the redress was to be paid, as it believed this should 
be reduced off the existing interest-only mortgage balance that Mr and Mrs M have with it. 
The investigator requested this be paid to the requested account  but Santander still 
believes it should be paid off the mortgage balance and it said cant pay it into the savings 
account they hold with it.
 
As agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been referred to me for review and 
determination. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have accepted the outcome in relation to their two other policies, so the only 
matter left for me to decide is about policy ending 605. And as Santander has already 
agreed it couldnt demonstrate the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, my consideration is 
whether the offer is fair and reasonable. 
I know Mr and Mrs M were willing to accept the offer. But I would like to take this opportunity 
to reassure them the calculation carried out is in-line with the industry standard calculation 
for cases like this.  It compares the position Mr and Mrs M were in with the endowment 
policy to what position they would have been in had they been advised to have a repayment 
mortgage instead. 
The loss Mr and Mrs M suffered was £1,488.23  that is, they would have been better off by 
that sum had their mortgage been on a repayment basis instead. The loss is calculated to 
June 2003 when Mr and Mrs M stopped using the policy for mortgage repayment purposes.  
And since then 8% simple interest per annum is added to that sum because Mr and Mrs M 
have been deprived of the loss of use of that money. 
Santander has calculated the interest to the date of the offer. However, it has long been our 
approach that any calculation, even where the approach is fair, should be updated to the 
date of settlement and that includes the updating of interest. Thats because Mr and Mrs M 
have continued to be deprived of the use of that money until it is paid, and I cant see that it 
was open to them to accept the offer and refer the matter here.  So although the investigator 
found the offer fair, she was right to ask Santander to update that. Santander hasnt put 
forward any reason as to why our usual approach wouldnt be fair in this case, and I havent 
seen anything else that would lead to me conclude our usual approach shouldnt apply.
Finally, Santander believes the compensation offered should be offset against the existing 
interest-only mortgage Mr and Mrs M hold with it. This is because it says it doesnt appear 
they have a plan in place to repay the sum borrowed at the end of the term. I understand the 
point Santander makes and why this might be a sensible course of action. But as the policy 
was surrendered in 2003, that has been the position of the mortgage for many years; and it 
has rarely been our approach that any compensation offered is required to be paid off a 
mortgage, although that is clearly the intention behind the calculation. It is for Mr and Mrs M 
to decide how they want that compensation paid.
Putting things right
I require Santander to pay Mr and Mrs M the compensation it has calculated as their loss, 
once it has updated that calculation so interest is calculated to the date of settlement. It is for 
Mr and Mrs M to decide whether to use the compensation to reduce the balance of their 
mortgage or for it be paid into another account. If they choose to have the compensation 
paid to another account, they do so in the continuing knowledge of needing to repay their 
mortgage at the end of the term. And Santander will need the details of the account to pay 
compensation to. 
I ask Mr and Mrs M to let us know how they want the compensation paid if they decide to 
accept my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs M compensation in 
accordance with what I have set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 8 
February 2021. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman