DRN-3770317
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money, wont refund to him the 
money that he and his wife paid for some holiday club membership credits. Hes being 
represented in his complaint by a claims management company.
What happened
Mr M and his wife had an existing timeshare that they wanted to relinquish. They say that 
they were approached by a relinquishment company and offered a promotional holiday 
during which they attended a presentation about relinquishing their existing timeshare. Mr M 
paid the relinquishment company £2,678.97, using his Virgin Money credit card, in March 
2015 to relinquish the timeshare. Mr M and his wife also agreed to buy some holiday club 
membership credits and they made a payment of £8,212 to a holiday company by bank 
transfer for those credits. 
Mr M claimed a refund of those amounts from Virgin Money under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in April 2019 but his claim was declined. Virgin Money 
determined that there was no evidence to support that there had been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation on the merchant's behalf. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that there 
were misrepresentations made by the relinquishment company which induced Mr M and his 
wife to purchase the package of products. He recommended that Virgin Money should: 
rework Mr Ms account as if the transaction had never happened (and refund any credit to 
Mr M with interest); and refund to Mr M and his wife the £8,212 that theyd paid by bank 
transfer, with interest.
Mr M has accepted that recommendation but Virgin Money has asked for this complaint to 
be considered by an ombudsman. It has responded to our investigators recommendations in 
detail and says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
it understands that Mr Ms and his wifes main aim was to relinquish their existing 
timeshare and the March 2015 invoice from the relinquishment company was for the 
relinquishment of that timeshare;
it understands that the timeshare was relinquished so theres no breach of contract;
the relinquishment company introduced Mr M and his wife to the holiday company 
but theres no mention in the contract with the relinquishment company to the 
purchase of credits from the holiday company  and it didnt provide the finance for 
the transaction with the holiday company and shouldnt be held liable for the monies 
paid to it by Mr M; and
the relinquishment company said that Mr M and his wife would have the option to sell 
the credits after three years and it would market them at 50p per credit  but it didnt 
say that it would sell them or buy them back and it doesnt look like Mr M and his wife 
took up that option in March 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint about Virgin Money, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the relinquishment 
company and that Virgin Moneys response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair 
or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ms claim under section 
75 as only a court would be able to do that;
Mr M and his wife signed a contract with the relinquishment company in March 2015 
which said: We hereby confirm that we relinquish ownership of the following to [the 
relinquishment company] upon completion of our Purchase Contract and the details 
of their existing timeshare were set out. The contract then said: We understand that 
we will no longer be liable for maintenance fees or transfer costs once the 
relinquishment has taken place;
Mr M and his wife also signed an invoice from the relinquishment company which 
said: Admin cost for the relinquishment of [their existing timeshare] and the amount 
of £2,738 was specified  but the amount actually charged to Mr Ms credit card with 
Virgin Money was £2,678.95;
Mr M and his wife also entered into a contract with the holiday company to buy 
30,000 credits for £8,212 and payment for those credits was made by bank transfer;
the relinquishment company also provided Mr M and his wife with a letter which said: 
Please accept this letter as confirmation that you have the option, after 3 years, to 
resell your credits. We will remarket them for 50p per credit;
the holiday company appears to be a different company to the relinquishment 
company but their addresses are similar and they share the same phone and fax 
numbers and the same contract number was used by both the holiday company and 
the relinquishment company on their contracts with Mr M and his wife;
I consider it to be clear that it was a condition of the relinquishment company taking 
over their existing timeshare that they had to enter into the purchase contract with the 
holiday company for the credits;
the relinquishment company also agreed to market the credits for Mr M and his wife 
after three years but I consider it to be more likely than not that it knew (or ought 
reasonably to have known) at that time that there was no reasonable prospect of the 
credits being resold;
Im persuaded that Mr M and his wife entered into the contracts as a package 
because they wanted to receive some money back for their existing timeshare and 
were led to believe that buying the credits would enable them to do that;
Im not persuaded that its likely that theyd have entered into the contract to buy the 
credits as they wanted to relinquish their existing timeshare unless theyd been led to 
believe that theyd be able to sell them;
Mr M and his wife havent used the credits and have received no benefit from them;I consider that the credits were misrepresented to Mr M and his wife and that they 
were induced into entering into the contracts with the relinquishment company and 
the holiday company by those misrepresentations  and I dont consider it to be likely 
that theyd have entered into those contracts if the misrepresentations hadnt been 
made by the relinquishment company;
Virgin Money is jointly liable with the relinquishment company for those 
misrepresentations so I dont consider that its response to Mr Ms claim under section 
75 was fair or reasonable; and
I find that Mr Ms complaint about Virgin Money should be upheld.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Virgin Money to put 
Mr M back in the position in which he wouldve been had the misrepresentations not been 
made. I find that it should rework Mr Ms credit card account as if the payment of £2,678.97 
hadnt been made in March 2015 as described in more detail below and that it should refund 
to Mr M the £8,212 that he and his wife paid in March 2015, with interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as 
Virgin Money, to:
1. Rework Mr Ms credit card account as if the payment of £2,678.97 hadnt been made 
in March 2015, and - if that puts the account into credit - to pay interest at an annual 
rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that the account was in credit. 
It should also refund the credit balance to Mr M.
2. If Mr M has repaid the £2,678.97 (or any part of it) to Virgin Money but doesnt have a 
credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that he has repaid at an annual rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
3. Refund £8,212 to Mr M.
4. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Virgin Money to deduct tax from the interest payments 
referred to above. Virgin Money must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman