DRN-3501289
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the advice she was given by Better Retirement Group Limited (Better 
Retirement) to transfer her deferred Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits into a 
self invested personal pension (SIPP), and thereafter to invest into what she believes were 
high risk underlying assets. She also complains about the advice to transfer her personal 
pension plan (PPP) as well. She says this has led to her suffering a loss to her pension fund 
and would like to be put as close to the position she would now be in without the previous 
advice. 
What happened
In October 2017 Mrs P, having spoken with her adviser about remortgaging, was advised by 
that adviser to speak with Better Retirement to discuss her retirement planning, particularly 
with respect to her deferred OPS  which had a cash equivalent transfer value of £71,364. 
At the time Mrs P was 44 years old and worked for the civil service and belonged to its OPS. 
Mrs P says the advice she was given was to transfer the benefits from her five and a half 
years service in the previous OPS, and the fund value of a PPP into a SIPP, so that she 
could repay some of her existing mortgage from the tax free lump sum that would be 
available to her at age 55. When the transfer completed in November 2017, the funds  
valued at £74,913.59 after the deduction of fees, were invested by a Discretionary Fund 
Manager (DFM) across a variety of shares and corporate bonds.
Mrs P received a SIPP statement in October 2018 which showed the SIPP to have a total 
value of £70,517.88, and by April 2019 this had fallen to £68,647.66. In June 2019 Mrs P 
complained to Better Retirement about the suitability of the advice through a representative. 
She made the following points of complaint:
She wasnt provided with any detail of the proposals being put forward. She wasnt 
made aware of the guaranteed benefits shed be giving up on transferring or given 
any alternative proposals.
The recommendation wasnt fully explained to her and she wasnt made aware of 
how the SIPP would work. She understood her transfer would be to a more 
lucrative style PPP.  
She had no great knowledge of pensions or investments in general and thought of 
herself as a cautious investor  maybe with a medium attitude to risk (ATR) at best. 
Better Retirements first statement on its suitability report said, our initial assumption 
is that you should not transfer your benefits, but it then concluded that there were 
more important reasons to transfer than the financial outcome and encouraged and 
facilitated the transfer. 
It was clear the transfer wasnt in her best interests so Better Retirement should have 
simply recommended that she remained within her OPS. 
She hadnt approached Better Retirement for advice, and it had based its 
recommendation purely on her thoughts of paying off her mortgage at some point in 
the future. It should have had a more robust discussion with her about her reasons 
for transferring which she said would have led to a greater understanding of Better 
Retirements advice.
She wanted to be put as close to the position she would be in now had she received 
suitable advice and not transferred. 
Better Retirement said it was satisfied with its advice and remained of the view that it 
explained all the risks and alternatives to Mrs P. It said she should await the regulators 
investigation into the DFMs parent company  it was in administration  to see if any 
compensation was due from the losses arising from the DFMs investment strategy. At this 
time Mrs Ps SIPP had little value apart from some cash being used to pay the ongoing fees.
Unhappy with this response Mrs P brought her complaint to us where it was considered by 
one of our investigators. She said it should be upheld and gave the following reasons in 
support of her findings:
Three of Mrs Ps four financial objectives noted in the suitability report couldnt be 
achieved for another 11 years.
Although Better Retirement said Mrs P could attain 32 years service in her existing 
OPS this couldnt be guaranteed  which wasnt considered as part of the 
recommendation.
Mrs P was advised to transfer her guaranteed OPS benefits into an investment 
backed plan and couldnt achieve her objective of paying off her mortgage for 
another 11 years. She didnt think this was suitable advice. In addition no details of 
the mortgage were provided and it would seem that the outstanding balance would 
have been reduced in 11 years as it was a repayment mortgage  and Mrs P had 
sufficient disposable income to consider overpaying on her mortgage in order to pay 
it off earlier.
Mrs P said she was a low/medium risk investor while Better Retirement recorded that 
she was medium/high. The differential should have been discussed robustly and the 
outcome recorded instead of simply deciding the extra risk was acceptable to Mrs P. 
The overall costs of the SIPP were significantly higher than the OPS and with a 
critical yield of 7.69% required to match the overall OPS benefits at the retirement 
age of 65, it would have been difficult to offset the effect of these charges based on 
Mrs Ps ATR. 
Looking at the discount rate used by this service when considering what growth rates 
would have been reasonably achievable, and taking into account the regulators 
projected assumptions of growth at the time, it seemed unlikely that the SIPP would 
be able to provide a higher pension over the term of Mrs Ps investment horizon. 
She didnt think the transfer was in Mrs Ps best interest nor did she think the transfer 
of the PPP  which she said was arranged by Better Retirement as well, was in her 
interests either. 
The underlying investment strategy was too complicated and expensive and wouldnt 
have been required in any case if the transfer hadnt been recommended.
Better Retirement should undertake a redress calculation in line with the most recent 
pension review methodology and pay £300 for the disruption caused to Mrs Ps 
retirement planning.  
Better Retirement didnt agree  making the following points in response:
The fact find that was completed noted that Mrs P had smoked for over 20 years and 
was classed as medically obese. These facts were top indicators for mortality risk. 
Mrs P had recently remortgaged to a new £100,000 repayment loan over 16 years.
The ATR questionnaire posed industry standard questions and created an 
independent report. It was designed to prompt slightly contradictory answers, but this 
was further reviewed during the rest of the know your client process. So it thought Mrs P was aware of the ATR definition on which its investment strategy 
recommendation was based.
Mrs P had indicated in the fact find that security of her pension fund was her number 
one priority which reflected her view of the OPS. 
It was correct to include the service from the current OPS in its calculation of Mrs Ps 
income in retirement. It ensured that, while it said there was potential for 31 years of 
service, it didnt assume that service within its calculation. And Mrs P didnt suggest 
she wouldnt remain a member of the scheme  given the ongoing opportunity. 
Essentially the current OPS service that Mrs P had already attained along with her 
state pension meant that her required income at retirement would be covered without 
including income from the deferred OPS or the PPP. 
Mrs P would have been aware that the CETV shed been offered was enhanced  
which wasnt unusual where schemes were looking to de-risk. In line with Mrs Ps 
view of the scheme and potential for a referral to the pension protection fund (PPF) it 
meant an analysis of whether a transfer was in her best interest ought to be carried 
out.
It had been conservative in its assumptions which is why it only used the medium 
assumed growth rate (5%) in its comparisons.
It had confirmed, on a number of occasions, the guarantees Mrs P was giving up and 
she was fully aware of them. It was Mrs P that decided a mix of the guarantees she 
would get from her current OPS and state pension, along with flexibility of a SIPP 
housing her transferred OPS benefits, would provide the best scenario for her in 
retirement.
Our comparison of charges between the OPS and SIPP wasnt fair. The cost of 
running a defined benefit OPS is high, and the members are asked to meet those 
costs. But the costs are opaque and spread between the members whereas the SIPP 
has individual charges which are always disclosed and easy to understand. This 
meant that when comparing schemes each charge and fee from the SIPP and 
adviser could be incorporated into the analysis. And as the end result was a 
recommendation which said the transfer was in Mrs Ps interest there was no reason 
to look any closer to determine which scheme had the higher costs.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view and gave the following responses:
The reasons Better Retirement gave for the increased mortality risk werent 
discussed at the time of the advice, so she was unable to consider them as valid 
reasons now. She also explained that Mrs P was considered to be in good health as 
noted by the fact find from 2017  and Mrs P had indicated that lump sum death 
benefits and providing a spouses/dependants pension were ranked among the least 
important factors when prioritising her reasons for transferring. 
She also thought there was a discrepancy regarding Mrs Ps ATR and felt a more 
robust conversation should have taken place to confirm the position. She noted that 
Mrs P regarded herself as a cautious investor so perhaps ought not to have 
transferred from a guaranteed pension into an investment backed plan invested into 
higher risk assets.
Although the critical yield wasnt the only factor to consider when transferring, it 
provided an accurate measure of what growth the SIPP needed to achieve in order to 
match the OPS. In this case the required critical yield of 7.69% would have been 
difficult to achieve given Mrs Ps low medium ATR. 
Mrs P was 11 years away from being able to access her tax free lump sum. So the 
transfer could have waited until nearer that time in order for Mrs P to still be able to 
achieve her objective of repaying her mortgage. She had noted that Mrs P had some capacity for loss from the SIPP as she had over 
10 years service in her current OPS. But she thought Better Retirement hadnt 
recorded this information within the fact find so it wasnt possible for Mrs P to have 
taken that aspect of her retirement income into consideration when deciding whether 
to transfer the deferred OPS benefits.
Better Retirement said:
Everything contained within its fact find had been discussed. Whilst it didnt consider 
Mrs P to be in good health, she considered herself to be in good health. But it used 
the factual information and took this into consideration when making its 
recommendation. 
Mrs P had a number of motivations for transferring. But it made the recommendation 
on the basis of the drawdown reports which said that her retirement income would 
match the OPS benefits until a life expectancy of 93.
It was surprised at our comments regarding the discrepancy in the ATR and the need 
for a robust conversation which it thought it had evidenced. However, regardless of 
any dispute it still believed it had recommended a low/medium portfolio for Mrs P to 
invest into. 
It no longer believes that critical yield gives a useful indication of the returns needed 
to justify a transfer and thinks that cash flow forecasting is seen as a more accurate 
measure. In Mrs Ps case it showed that a gross return of just 5% would be sufficient 
to provide the same benefits as she could expect from the OPS. 
It accepted that the transfer could have waited but thought the pension transfer report 
showed that the transfer was in Mrs Ps best interest at that time. In addition, it put 
forward a number of possible changes that might happen in the following 11 years 
which gave some context to the possible disadvantage of delaying the 
recommendation.  
It believed that Mrs Ps other retirement income covered her core income 
requirement and therefore gave more rationale around its belief that this transfer was 
suitable. 
It would continue to support Mrs P in relation to the unfortunate issues with the DFM. 
But as no resolution could be found the complaint was passed to me for review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said the complaint should be upheld, giving the following 
reasons to support my findings:
The main objective of Better Retirements recommendation to transfer seemed to be 
that Mrs P could draw her tax free cash at age 55, pay off (some of) her mortgage 
and consolidate her pensions. But those objectives couldnt be met for a further 11 
years and it was difficult to ensure the new SIPP wouldnt lose value in that time. So I 
looked to see if there were other compelling reasons that the transfer was in Mrs Ps 
best interests.
There was no evidence to support Mrs Ps financial position at age 55 with regards to 
her mortgage. I thought that, if repayment of the mortgage was such an important 
factor in the transfer, then Better Retirement ought to have quantified how the 
objective would be achieved. So I wasnt persuaded about the justification to 
recommend the transfer of the OPS benefits in 2017.
Id looked at the regulators Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in force at the 
time and I couldnt see any evidence to support Better Retirements claim that the 
regulator didnt regard critical yield as a useful way of comparing benefits from the OPS and the SIPP. I thought the regulators message wasnt to promote any specific 
method that could be used to compare, but to ensure the outcome was explained 
fully to a consumer and that a consumer understood the conclusions. 
In Mrs Ps case the critical yield comparison suggested that the transfer wasnt in 
her best interest, and the other two methods used suggested the advice might be 
suitable based on a mid-rate growth rate. 
But I hadnt seen any evidence to show why Mrs Ps original low medium risk profile 
was subsequently amended to high medium, or that a robust discussion was 
undertaken and recorded to explain the disparity. I thought the risk in giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked scheme in favour of investment backed scheme  which 
was further complicated by the use of a DFM, was beyond the level of risk I thought 
Mrs P was comfortable with. And although the DFM subsequently ceased trading, I 
didnt think Mrs P would have suffered the losses she did without Better Retirements 
involvement. 
I thought the fees that Mrs P would incur on transferring were unlikely to be offset 
over the rather limited likely investment horizon and might have meant Mrs P was 
worse off at retirement because of them.
I wasnt satisfied that any of the other objectives Better Retirement noted were 
primary reasons for why the transfer might be in Mrs Ps best interests.
I didnt think there was sufficient justification for the advice to transfer the PPP 
benefits into the SIPP as well. 
Better Retirement needed to calculate redress which put Mrs P as close to the 
position shed now be in had the advice been to remain in the OPS and PPP that she 
already held. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Mrs P said she had nothing further to add to my provisional decision and Better Retirement 
chose not to reply to our requests for a response.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And as both parties havent provided any further submissions following my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from its findings. So Ill set out my final reasoning.
The objectives and reasons for the transfer
In 2001 the regulators COBS noted, for the first time that, when advising a customer who 
is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined benefits occupational pension scheme 
whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) Start by assuming it will not be suitable and
(b) Only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence 
available at the time that it is in the customers best interest.
So Ive started by looking at the various reasons Better Retirement gave for transfer as well 
as what it recorded as Mrs Ps objectives  to see if the reasons were compelling enough to 
clearly demonstrate the transfer was in Mrs Ps best interest.
Draw the tax free cash, pay off mortgage and consolidate pensions. 
Better Retirement said that Mrs Ps main objective was to draw tax free cash from her plan 
at age 55 and use it to repay some of her outstanding mortgage. But that objective couldnt be achieved for another 11 years at that point  so there seemed to be little point in carrying 
out the transfer in anticipation of that objective when there wasnt another clear reason to do. 
Better Retirement wasnt in a position to ensure the new SIPP was able to match the OPS 
benefits at the end of the 11 year period because it was an investment backed plan which 
would fluctuate in value according to the prevailing financial market conditions. So there 
seemed little value in Mrs P taking such a risk simply to draw her tax free cash in 11 years 
time. 
But, if the objective of repaying the mortgage was Mrs Ps main objective, then I would have 
expected Better Retirement to set out how the transfer would have helped to achieve that 
goal. I would have expected it to have quantified how much needed to be paid off and how 
that might be achieved from the tax free sum available. But theres no evidence of any such 
evaluation from Better Retirement and its hard to establish even if there would have been an 
outstanding mortgage at the time. Better Retirement said Mrs P had recently remortgaged 
for a term of 16 years, but she had sufficient (joint) disposable income to overpay on the loan 
 so it might have been possible for her to have either paid off the mortgage before age 55 
or to have reduced it down to a much smaller amount. 
So Im not satisfied that this objective justified the advice to transfer. And Im not persuaded 
by the suggestion that Mrs P wanted to transfer to consolidate her pensions, as she only had 
two pensions which were the OPS and the PPP. I dont think the ongoing administration of 
these two plans would have been too onerous for Mrs P and, in any case, they were quite 
different pensions (defined benefit based and fund value based) which, in my view, didnt 
lend themselves well to being consolidated into a purely fund based alternative.
The fees
Better Retirements initial fee for the transfer advice was 4% of the fund. In addition, it 
charged £1,350 for analysis of the OPS and a 1% ongoing advice fee. There was also an 
annual SIPP fee of £250 plus VAT, with another 1% fee for the services of the DFM. This 
compares to a monthly administration fee of £4.17 on Mrs Ps existing PPP  along with 
annual management charges (AMCs) on each of the invested funds, although these AMCs 
were also applicable to investments within the SIPP.  Any fees associated with the OPS 
which were paid by scheme members were deducted before the scheme benefits were set 
out in Mrs Ps deferred benefit statement.  
I think its clear that the SIPP contained higher fees than Mrs Ps PPP. And when taken 
alongside the other advice fees that were deducted on completion of the transfer, they would 
most likely have eroded the fund so that it would have been unlikely that the effect of them 
would have been negated over the likely investment horizon. So I think its more likely than 
not that the fees involved here meant that Mrs P was likely to be financially worse off by 
transferring.
The other objectives 
Better Retirement noted a number of other objectives Mrs P had which it said would be 
achieved as a result of transferring and were good reasons to justify the recommendation. 
These were:
A substantial existing OPS, which was one of a number of fixed incomes which would 
be coming into Mrs Ps household in retirement and would cover her core expenditure. This would allow her to have some flexibility within the deferred OPS if it 
was transferred. 
Her existing OPS could go into the PPF and the opportunity to transfer would then be 
lost.
The enhanced CETV Mrs P had been offered might be withdrawn at any time.
Mrs P wasnt in good health and might better benefit from the SIPPs death benefits. 
And her non-dependent child wouldnt benefit from the OPS benefits either.
When she wanted to draw the tax free cash at age 55 she didnt want to have to draw 
an income. 
I think these factors would have been of some interest when considering a transfer, but I 
dont think they would have been significant drivers for Mrs P. And each objective could be 
seen differently and viewed as reasons not to transfer. There was no evidence to suggest 
that Mrs P was in poor health or had reasons to be concerned about the death benefits 
available from the scheme. And there was little reason to think the OPS might enter the PPF 
or that it was in Mrs Ps interest to transfer simply because of an enhanced CETV.  
I also dont think it was guaranteed that Mrs P would achieve 32 years service in her 
existing OPS, I note at that point shed only completed around 10 years service. There was 
nothing guaranteed about her service and it could have ended at any point. So I dont think it 
was reasonable to base a recommendation on the fact that Mrs P would have had sufficient 
guaranteed income in retirement to be able to take some risk with the deferred OPS 
benefits. Indeed, consideration of the transfer nearer to her 55th birthday, when the objective 
of using tax free cash would have been more appropriate, would also have allowed Better 
Retirement to use the objective of guaranteed incomes with more confidence.
So, while these factors would undoubtably have entered into the overall discussion about the 
suitability of any advice to transfer, I think by far the most important reason for transferring 
was whether Mrs P would have been better off financially and whether it was in her best 
interest. So Ive gone on to consider that aspect of the recommendation.
The comparison of the financial outcomes 
Better Retirement said that, when considering the comparisons that were made to Mrs P, it 
thought that its cash flow approach was the most appropriate way to determine if the 
transfer was viable. It said that the regulator had by this point moved away from suggesting 
critical yield was the most important comparison tool. So I looked at the requirements as 
set out in regulators handbook from the time. They stated that: 
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded
benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the client's attention to the factors
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later
than when the key features document is provided; and(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's comparison
and its advice.
In addition the comparison itself should :
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances.
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested.  
The regulator didnt specify which comparison method should be used, simply that the 
comparison should be clear enough for the consumer to make an informed decision and that 
it should be understood, and a copy should be given to the consumer. So Ive looked at the 
information Better Retirement set out  which noted three methods of comparing benefits to 
determine the viability of the transfer through a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report. 
These were all compared against the OPS benefits Mrs P had accrued from her service 
which was an annual pension income of £1,945.29 at the time she left and was estimated to 
be £4,796.59 per year at normal retirement age (NRA). 
The first measure looked at what age an income, equivalent to the OPS pension, would be 
exhausted if it were paid from the SIPP at the NRA. In this case the report said the age 
would be 79 if based on a low growth rate of 2%, and 92 if based on a medium growth rate 
of 5%. But, Ive looked at the assumption that was made about charges here, which was 
based on a 1% fee. However, the reality of the transfer was that a 1% DFM charge and a 1% 
adviser fee was included  which would suggest that the comparison was unlikely to be 
accurate as it was based on assumed charges which were significantly lower than the actual 
SIPP. So Im not persuaded that Mrs P was placed in an informed position with regards to 
the equivalent income comparison. 
The next measure was the hurdle rate which looked at the growth rate needed to maintain 
sufficient capital to provide an annuity equivalent to the OPS pension at NRA. The rate was 
calculated to be 4.59% but didnt include any additions to a basic annuity proposition. So 
Mrs P wouldnt have been able to compare against an annuity with a spouses pension, a 
guarantee payment period or an escalation for example. But of more concern was the fact 
that the fund required to purchase the annuity was £198,802.28 which was nearly three 
times the CETV from 2017. 
The final measure was the critical yield rate, which calculated the growth rate required by the 
SIPP to produce an income equivalent to the OPS at NRA.  This was known as being 
financially viable. 
Better Retirements advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance 
FG17/9 as to how a business could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 
similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. 
Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, they do provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable.The critical yield required to match Mrs Ps OPS at retirement was 7.69% per year. The 
closest discount rate to this time which I'm able to refer to was published by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and is 4.5% per year for a term 
of 21 years to retirement. So I think its clear that the investment return would need to be 
significantly higher than expected in order for the transfer to be in Mrs Ps financial interest. 
But there would little point in transferring just to match the existing benefits, so I think its 
reasonable to assume that the SIPP needed to achieve further growth on top of the critical 
yield to ensure additional benefits of sufficient value to have made the transfer worthwhile. 
It would seem therefore that it was unlikely that the critical yield required to exceed the OPS 
would be achieved in this case  especially when considering the limited investment horizon. 
But it could be argued that the other comparison measures might be seen as suitable when 
based on or around the mid-range growth rate of 5% that was set out by the regulator at the 
time. However, in order to assess whether that was likely, Ive looked at Mrs Ps ATR, to see 
whether mid-range growth was consistent with the level of risk she would have been 
prepared to accept.
Mrs P described herself as a low medium investor. This was mainly based on the assertion 
that she hadnt previously held any investments. And, looking at the information that was 
gathered at the time of the advice, Ive seen no evidence to contradict that position. The only 
investment Ive seen any evidence of was Mrs Ps PPP- which was funded by her national 
insurance contributions after she contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS). So she didnt invest any personal contributions and the money itself was 
invested into default managed funds. 
Better Retirement said that it defined Mrs P as a high medium investor when it completed an 
industry standard risk questionnaire with her, and it continued to test that definition through 
further questions during the fact finding process. But I havent been provided with sufficient 
evidence to support that claim. I havent seen evidence of a robust discussion about the 
difference between the initial view of Mrs Ps low medium ATR and the subsequent upwards 
revision after completing the questionnaire. And I havent seen an explanation for why the 
higher ATR was used in order to determine the eventual investment strategy. I would have 
expected to see the reasons for the change set out within the documentation prior to the 
recommendation.
So its my conclusion that Mrs P was most likely a low medium risk rated investor who didnt 
have the necessary appetite required to take the risks to ensure the mid-range rates of 
growth were consistently achieved. Its difficult therefore to justify the recommendation to 
transfer based simply on the other two measures of comparing the OPS benefits with the 
SIPP.
But I think there were other risks involved as well here. Mrs P held guaranteed benefits in an 
OPS, which would have increased in line with RPI up to and after her retirement. By 
agreeing to transfer she exchanged these guarantees in favour of investment into a variety 
of funds/portfolios  which would have carried investment risk beyond that which I believe 
she had the appetite and capacity to accept. 
As a DFM was involved in the investment strategy, a further layer of charges and risk was 
also included. This extra risk was eventually the reason for the failure of the investment as 
the DFM ceased trading.
But I dont think Mrs P would have invested without the involvement of Better Retirement and 
I think its advice for Mrs P to transfer her OPS benefits wasnt suitable for all the reasons 
Ive set out above.The PPP transfer    
The PPP that Mrs P held had a fund value of around £8,000. But it wasnt a plan Mrs P had 
made personal contributions into  shed simply agreed to have her national insurance 
contributions directed into the plan in order to contract out of SERPS. I think any advice 
Mrs P received at that time would have made her hopeful that shed be better off by 
contracting out, so I think its unlikely she would have viewed a recommendation to transfer 
the benefits into a SIPP as being in her best interest. 
But even if my assumption is wrong, theres little evidence to show the transfer in 2017 was 
suitable. As Ive already explained the fees that applied to the SIPP were higher than those 
of the existing PPP, so it was unlikely Mrs P would have been better off by transferring. And, 
when applied solely to the PPP fund of around £8,000, it would have been extremely unlikely 
that growth on the SIPP would have negated the likely significant impact of those fees on 
such a small fund. 
Ive already said that I think advice to transfer the OPS benefits was unsuitable. So I dont 
think advice to transfer the PPP would have been suitable either as standalone advice or in 
conjunction with the overall advice to transfer both pensions. 
Putting things right
The advice to transfer the OPS benefits
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Better Retirement to put Mrs P as far as
possible, into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she
would have remained in the occupational scheme. Better Retirement must therefore
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of any final decision along these lines,
and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance
with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Ps acceptance of the decision.
Better Retirement may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to
obtain Mrs Ps contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS
or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on
Mrs Ps SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mrs Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount should where possible be paid to Mrs P within 90 days of thedate Better Retirement receives notification of her acceptance of any final decision along
these lines. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8%
per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in
excess of 90 days, that it takes Better Retirement to pay Mrs P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
The PPP transfer
My aim is that Mrs P should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice not to transfer her PPP.
I take the view that Mrs P would have remained with her previous PPP provider. Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs P's circumstances and 
objectives when she invested.
What must Better Retirement do?
To compensate Mrs P fairly, Better Retirement must:
Compare the performance of Mrs P's investment with the notional value of the PPP 
had it remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the 
notional value, no compensation is payable.
If the notional value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation 
is payable.
Better Retirement should add interest as set out below:
Better Retirement should pay into Mrs P's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Better Retirement is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs P's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Mrs P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs P would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.Pay to Mrs P £300 for the distress caused by the loss of virtually the whole 
investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Better Retirement deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mrs P how much has been taken off. Better Retirement should 
give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs P asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
SIPPStill exists but 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
provider for 
PPP.Date of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this 
case. Better Retirement should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Better Retirement pays 
should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Better Retirement is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Better Retirement may require that Mrs P 
provides an undertaking to pay Better Retirement any amount she may receive from the 
investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Better Retirement will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional value
This is what the PPP would have been worth at the end date had it remained with the 
previous provider. The provider has issued us with that information previously  so Better 
Retirement will be able to obtain it  although it would need to be updated to the date of this 
decision. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Better Retirement totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.The SIPP wrapper only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the wrapper to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Better Retirement taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mrs P can discuss with the wrapper provider directly. 
But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Better 
Retirement is unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its 
fair that it pays Mrs P an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP wrapper 
fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the wrapper to be closed.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ps complaint against Better Retirement Group Ltd.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance. 
Better Retirement Group Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs P in a clear, 
simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Better Retirement Group Ltd should pay 
Mrs P the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 (including 
distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount set out 
above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Better Retirement Group Ltd pays Mrs P the balance plus any 
interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Better 
Retirement Group Ltd. It is unlikely that Mrs P can accept my decision and go to court to ask 
for the balance. Mrs P may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Better Retirement Group Ltd does not pay the recommended amount, then any investment 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mrs P. This is until any future benefit that she may 
receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by Better Retirement 
Group Ltd (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.
Better Retirement Group Ltd may request an undertaking from Mrs P that either she repays 
to Better Retirement Group Ltd any amount Mrs P may receive from the investment 
thereafter or if possible, transfers the investment to Better Retirement at that point.
Mrs P should be aware that any such amount would be paid into her pension plan so she 
may have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman