DRN-3112737
The complaint
Mr Z complains Pockit Limited (Pockit) refused to credit his prepaid account with a payment 
due to him and then failed to carry out his instructions to return these monies to the sender. 
What happened
Mr Z has a prepaid account with Pockit and was paid £1000 by a third party into the account 
albeit he had informed the payer of his old account details by mistake. Mr Z says on realising 
this he informed Pockit and after some time they confirmed they had traced the monies but 
couldnt credit his account unless he was willing to upgrade his account as his existing 
account had deposit limits in place. Mr Z says he told Pockit he didnt want to upgrade his 
account and asked them to return the monies to the sender. Mr Z says this didnt happen 
and when eventually Pockit confirmed they had returned the monies, the third-party sender 
informed him they hadnt received it. Mr Z wants Pockit to credit his account with the monies 
or return it to the sender. 
Pockit says Mr Zs account was restricted to deposit limits as detailed in the account terms 
and conditions and Mr Z had provided the sender with incorrect account details. Pockit says 
they made a genuine attempt to help Mr Z by offering an account upgrade to allow the 
deposit to be credited to the account but accept when this was refused by Mr Z they could 
have dealt with the matter sooner and paid him £50 by way of an apology. Pockit says they 
have since processed the return of the monies to the sender. 
Mr Z wasnt happy with Pockits response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator says while Pockit acted reasonably when they refused to accept the initial 
deposit to Mr Zs prepaid account, they had provided no evidence to show the monies had 
ever been returned to the sender. The investigator proposed, Pockit should return the £1000 
to the sender as instructed, pay 8% simple interest on this sum from the day Mr Z asked for 
the payment to be returned to the sender and pay Mr Z an additional £150 by way of 
compensation .
Pockit agreed with the investigators view, but Mr Z says the investigator didnt fully explain 
the interest payment calculation and also believes Pockit havent calculated this correctly. Mr 
Z says he is unhappy with the level of compensation he has been offered and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be frustrating for Mr Z not to be able to access funds sent to his 
prepaid account even if he had inadvertently given the sender the incorrect account details. I 
can also see it would be upsetting to then ask for these funds to be returned to the sender 
and for these instructions not to have been actioned by Pockit. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if Pockit have now actioned the return of those monies sent and 
have  now fairly compensated  Mr Z for the inconvenience this has caused him. 
The first thing to say here is that it has been accepted by Pockit they didnt return the funds 
to the sender as they originally suggested to Mr Z, but they have now provided evidence to 
this service showing this has been actioned. 
During the course of the investigation it was established that Pockit acted correctly when 
they refused to accept the £1000 sent to Mr Zs account. I say this as, not only were 
incorrect account details provided to the sender by Mr Z, this type of account has set deposit 
limits detailed in its terms and conditions  so I cant say Pockit did anything wrong here. 
What has been accepted is Pockit did take longer than we would normally expect, for them 
to eventually return the funds to the sender. 
The investigator proposed Pockit should compensate Mr Z for this delay, and the poor 
service they offered, with an additional £150 on top of the £50 they had already paid him. 
The investigator has also asked for interest to be paid on the £1000 payment, from the date 
Mr Z asked for the monies to be returned to the sender, although Mr Z doesnt feel this is 
sufficient here. 
While Mr Z may not agree its not the role of this service to penalise businesses like Pockit, 
when mistakes occur, more they are seen to apologise and pay appropriate compensation 
for any inconvenience caused. I am satisfied this is what has happened here, as a total of 
£200 in compensation has been paid by Pockit, in addition to 8% interest on the £1000 from 
23 June 2020. Mr Z has commented that the investigator has failed to properly explain the 
simple interest calculation to him and doesnt believe Pockit have compensated him properly 
for that.
Given Mr Zs comments its worth explaining the term simple interest, as described in the 
investigators comments. It is just that, a simple interest calculation without any 
compounding of interest. So here, £1000 at 8% simple interest would come to a sum of £80 
per annum. In this case the period in question was from 23 June 2020 until it was paid by 
Pockit on 16 June 2021, which is a total of 359 days. The calculator used by Pockit was 
emailed to Mr Z by the investigator, so he could confirm this calculation himself and I am 
satisfied this is correct and sufficient here.
Its worth mentioning that Pockit have since provided this service with copies of Mr Zs 
prepaid account statement showing three goodwill payments deposited to his account 
totalling £278.57 as suggested by the investigator. These were made up of the initial £50 in 
October 2020, £120 in August 2021 and £108.57 in October 2021. The reason for three 
payments here is because of the deposit limit restrictions in place on Mr Zs account, as 
previously explained.
Putting things right
While Mr Z may not agree, I am satisfied Pockit Limited have paid him the correct amount of 
£278.57 in compensation and I wont be asking anymore of them here.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
While Mr Z may not agree, I am satisfied Pockit Limited have paid him the correct amount of 
£278.57 in compensation and I wont be asking anymore of them here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman