DRN-3748366
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Assicurazioni Generali SpA trading as Generali has unfairly 
declined his claim.
What happened
Mr S has a group income protection policy underwritten by Generali. This would pay a 
benefit if Mr S was unable to work due to illness or injury throughout the deferred (waiting) 
period of 28 weeks and beyond.
In October 2020, Mr S became absent from work due to mental health problems and back 
pain. He made a claim in 2021 but Generali said Mr S didnt meet the definition of incapacity 
and so it declined his claim. 
Mr S complained and unhappy with Generalis response, referred his complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Generali had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
Mr S disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
Generali failed to gather relevant evidence
Generali didnt give sufficient weight to the medical evidence provided 
Further clarification should be sought from the medical experts 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms
The policy terms define incapacity as follows:
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material 
and Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other 
Work or occupation.
The onus is on Mr S to prove his claim. So this means Mr S needs to show, through medical 
evidence, that he is incapacitated. Being diagnosed with an illness or injury isnt enough on 
its own to show that he meets the definition. I would expect to see clear reference to Mr S 
illness or injury and an explanation of how this would prevent him from doing his job role with 
any employer. 
Workplace problems arent covered by the policy as it is his role that is insured rather than 
the role at the specific employer he is working with. If the evidence suggests that a change 
of employer or work environment would alleviate Mr S mental health issues, then he isnt 
able to satisfy the test of incapacity. 
The medical evidence 
The deferred period in this case started in October 2020 when Mr S became absent from 
work. 
Generali reviewed and considered the following key medical evidence:
May 2020  telephone consultation with consultant orthopaedic spinal surgeon  Mr 
S said his symptoms have been controlled since being discharged from his surgeons 
care but over the last two weeks the pain has recurred and is extreme in intensity. 
Consultant suggested pain control via GP and if symptoms didnt settle, he would 
need an MRI.
17 December 2020  Occupational Health (OH) report which confirms Mr S had a 
telephone consultation in which he told the doctor he was suffering from 
psychological symptoms triggered by work related stressors and back pain since 
2017.  
10 January 2021  OH report which confirms a further telephone consultation review 
in which Mr S told the doctor he had seen a psychiatrist and he was advised to 
continue therapy and start a new type of therapy moving forward. His psychiatrist had 
advised him to refrain from work due to burn out and he had not been able to 
continue with physiotherapy because of pain.
12 January 2021  telephone consultation with consultant orthopaedic spinal surgeon 
 Mr S reported severe back pain a few times over the last six months. 
Recommended an MRI, medication and physiotherapy.
12 March 2021  OH report which confirms a further telephone consultation review in 
which Mr S confirmed he had started new therapy which he had found helpful and 
was continuing with medication and physiotherapy for his back pain. He was 
engaging well with therapy, was making progress and his back pain was manageable 
with pain relief and physiotherapy. The doctor said Mr S should refrain from work but 
he was well enough to engage in dialogue with the business about business related 
matters.
Medical evidence from after the deferred period:
1 July 2021  letter from consultant psychiatrist to Generali which confirms Mr S was 
referred in November 2020 and was suffering from anxiety and depression and 
obsessive-compulsive disorder which became significantly worse in March 2020 around the pandemic. He had been working long hours and his main issue was 
anxiety related. He was last seen in May 2021 and his mood had improved a little but 
his job was at risk. He was able to undertake all activities of daily living except for 
shopping. The consultant psychiatrist felt he needed medication and therapy and his 
response to treatment had been moderate. Stress at work and the pandemic had 
made things worse. The prognosis was difficult to gauge as this would depend on the 
resolution of work issues, working hours and risk of redundancy - these matters 
needed to be resolved before Mr S could go back to work.
26 July 2021  the consultant psychiatrist wrote to Generali to confirm Mr S suffered 
from an anxiety disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder and a depressive disorder. 
Mr S felt his depression was more significant than was stated in the first report.
13 September 2021  letter from consultant psychiatrist said Mr S was last reviewed 
on 2 September, he was seeing a psychologist for therapy, he was feeling low and 
anxious with poor concentration, energy and motivation. He was very anxious about 
going back into work and could not work anywhere near his normal capacity and had 
reduced activities of daily living. 
September 2021 - Mr S GP wrote a letter to confirm that he was suffering from low 
mood and severe anxiety caused by stress at work, heavy workload and a lot of work 
travel. He was also being treated for chronic lumbar backpain and was due to be 
seen in the pain clinic. 
6 September 2021  telephone consultation with consultant orthopaedic spinal 
surgeon - Mr S said hed had repeat episodes of severe back pain which last for a 
week when they start, and these come about at three to four weekly intervals. 
Consultant suggested referral to pain specialist to manage symptoms. 
17 November 2021  the consultant psychiatrist confirmed Mr S ongoing issues and 
said the prognosis was influenced by his work-based situation. If a resolution could 
be made his symptoms would improve  at present, he wasnt well enough to attend 
meetings with work as he was too anxious, and he was unable to perform the role in 
his current job. 
Having considered all of the above, I dont think Generali unfairly declined the claim. 
The medical evidence shows that Mr S mental health issues arose as a result of work-place 
issues and so this suggests that it was his role with his employer that he couldnt fulfil rather 
than his insured role. This means Mr S doesnt meet the definition of incapacity for his 
mental health issues. 
In relation to back problems, I havent seen sufficient evidence to suggest that Mr S was 
incapacitated throughout the whole of the deferred period. By March 2021, within the 
deferred period, Mr S reported that his back pain was manageable with medication  and so 
Im not satisfied that his back problems were preventing him from working in March 2012. 
Based on this, Mr S doesnt meet the definition of incapacity for his back problems.
The medical evidence after the deferred period suggests Mr S back problems did get worse 
and he was referred to a pain specialist in around September 2021. But there is no further 
evidence of the outcome following the referral and no explanation why his back pain was 
preventing him from doing his role. Ive considered whether it would be reasonable for 
Generali to start the deferred period from a later date. But Im not satisfied there is sufficient 
medical evidence available to suggest that Mr S would meet the definition of incapacity for 
28 weeks when Mr S condition deteriorated (from around September onwards).  Mr S and his representatives have suggested that Generali should have obtained further 
evidence, but the onus is on Mr S to prove the claim. Generali has a duty to deal with claims 
promptly. If Mr S has further medical evidence which supports his claim, he would need to 
send this to Generali to review. But based on the information and evidence available to 
Generali at the time the claim was made, I dont think it has acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman