DRN-4421005
Complaint
Mr A complains that Go Car Credit Limited (Go Car Credit) unfairly entered into a hire 
purchase agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement were 
unaffordable. 
Background
In November 2019, Go Car Credit provided Mr A with finance for a used car. The purchase 
price of the vehicle was £6,295.00. Mr A paid a deposit of £200 and took out a hire purchase 
agreement with Go Car Credit for the remaining £6,095.00. The loan had interest and 
charges of £6,105.00 (consisting of interest of £6,095.00 and an option to purchase fee of 
£10) and a 48-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £12,200.00 (not 
including the deposit) was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £254.17.
Mr A complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Go Car Credit didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed 
that the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Go Car 
Credit had done anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly. So he didnt recommend that          
Mr As complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed with our investigator and the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr As complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Go Car Credit needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Go Car Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr A before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Go Car Credit says it agreed to this application after Mr A provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr A which had shown Mr A was up to 
date with his open commitments, had historic defaults and missed payments but didnt have 
any County Court Judgements (CCJ) recorded against him.  
Furthermore, Go Car Credit says that it combined this information with an income and 
expenditure assessment that it completed with Mr A and bank statements which it obtained 
from him. And all of this information showed that these payments were affordable. On the 
other hand, Mr A says that these payments were unaffordable and there was no way he was 
going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr A and Go Car Credit have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this wasnt simply a case of Go Car Credit relying on what 
Mr A said at face value before deciding to lend to him. It obtained a quite a bit of information 
from Mr A while considering the application. While Go Car Credit says that there was no 
issue with Mr As recent payment history, given defaults on the credit file provided, I do think 
that it was prudent to request further information from Mr A.
Having considered the information Mr A provided to Go Car Credit about his finances at the 
time, this appears to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing 
credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the 
time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
Mr A says that he provided business statements at the time of his application after he wasnt 
accepted on basis of the information on his personal statements. It is my understanding that 
this was because Mr A declared that he was employed but there wasnt a wage from this 
employer. So Mr As declaration of income in relation to his employment wasnt accepted 
and instead Mr As business statements were requested to support that he was the director 
of the company that he was receiving dividends from. 
Mr A says he wasnt paying himself a wage at the time. I dont know if he was or whether he 
was even supposed to be making transfers from his business account to his personal 
account in the way that he was. Nonetheless what I have to consider here is that there were 
regular payments from Mr As business account to his personal account. And as Mr A was 
the company director, it was reasonable for Go Car Credit to take this into account. 
Particularly as, at the very least it appeared as though, this was Mr As main source of 
revenue and these funds were being used to meet the expenditure on his personal account.
Furthermore, from what I can see on Mr As personal statements which include what has 
been described as dividend payments from his company and what looks to be his regular 
spend, he did appear to have the funds to make the monthly payments. Equally, as this 
supplemented what Mr A declared during the income and expenditure phone call with Go 
Car Credit and the information suggested that the payments were affordable, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for it to have lent.
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that Go Car Credits checks 
before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr A did go far enough. As the 
checks showed that the payments were affordable, Im satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable 
for Go Car Credit to provide these funds, or enter into this agreement with Mr A. 
This means I dont think that Go Car Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A and 
Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his concerns 
have been listened to.
I note that Mr A has referred to being owed money for repairs, carried out to the vehicle, by 
the company that sold him his car, before it went out of business. But I cant see that this is a 
matter that he has ever raised with Go Car Credit. If Mr A believes that this is a matter that 
Go Car Credit is responsible for this is a matter hell need to take up with it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman