DRN-1767316
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that the information provided by Family Equity Plan Limited trading as 
OneFamily in respect of his ISA wasnt clear, which led to him incurring a breakage charge 
when transferring his account to another provider.
For ease, I will refer to Family Equity Plan Limited by its trading name of OneFamily 
throughout my decision
What happened
Mr F had an ISA provided by OneFamily. The account Mr F held is a self-managed ISA 
which allows him control of how its managed. Mr Fs account included two one-year fixed 
rate products, set to mature at different times, in addition to a holdings account.
OneFamily sent Mr F a message in July 2019 to let him know that one of his fixed rate 
products was reaching maturity  and at this point, Mr F decided he wanted to transfer the 
product to a different provider which was offering a better interest rate. During this process, 
he realised that he couldnt complete the transfer of one product without transferring the 
whole ISA.
Mr F says that at no time were the full implications of this explained to him, but as he had 
lost faith in OneFamily, he decided to go ahead with the transfer. On receiving his final 
statement, he saw that the breakage charge had been applied on both products. He says 
that had he known this, he would have left the funds from the product that matured first in 
the holdings account, whilst he waited for the second product to mature. This way he could 
have transferred the ISA without charge.
Once the transfer was completed, Mr F was unhappy to discover there was a delay in the 
funds reaching his new provider. As the funds were sent on a Friday via BACS transfer, his 
new provider didnt receive them until the following Tuesday.
OneFamily said it followed the terms of the account, and the information concerning partial 
transfers, breakage charges and time limits for transferring funds was set out in the Key 
Facts Document, which it asks all customers to read before opening the account. It said the 
breakage fee was explained to Mr F on a telephone call and he was given an option to avoid 
it, but still chose to proceed with the transfer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought OneFamily had explained Mr Fs 
options with regard to transferring the ISA and that Mr F had chosen to go ahead, and there 
were no special circumstances for the funds to be released early when being transferred to 
the new provider. So he felt the breakage charges had been applied fairly.
Mr F disagreed. He said he thought hed made it clear that the transfer should have been 
made once the product had matured, not before maturity. But our investigator said he had 
seen information from OneFamily showing that the new provider had requested the transfer prior to maturity, so still didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The complaint was 
therefore passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr 
Fs complaint and will explain why.
I understand Mr F has raised concerns with the sale of his account and believes it was mis-
sold on the basis that it wasnt fully explained. I cant comment on Mr Fs concerns in respect 
of how the policy was sold within this complaint; thats a different issue which he would need 
to complain about separately.
In this complaint hes raised concerns about the way the account itself operates and the 
practices of OneFamily. Its not for me to comment on the suitability of the type of account 
Mr F had, or the way OneFamily operates in general. This service doesnt regulate financial 
businesses, and I can only look at the individual circumstances of this particular complaint to 
decide whether OneFamily needs to take any further action regarding the breakage charge 
applied to the account following the transfer.
Mr Fs account is an online ISA. It is one account, but allows him to split the funds across 
different products within the ISA. When products mature, theyre moved into the holding 
account awaiting action by the account holder. 
Id expect the provider to give clear information to customers about the terms relating to the 
account and how it works. The arrangements for transfers out and for charges are set out in 
the terms and conditions. Ive looked at the Key Facts Document and it does make it clear 
that partial transfers arent permitted, as well as explaining the way the account operates 
and when breakage charges apply:
Transfers to another ISA must be made in full, and on transferring, your Online ISA will 
close. Partial transfers are not permitted. You cannot transfer individual products held in your 
account. If you transfer your Online ISA while you have money in a Fixed Rate product 
which is in its fixed term, a Breakage Charge will be applied to that product as detailed in the 
Summary Box.
I accept Mr F may not have read this but OneFamily does ask that customers read this 
before opening new accounts. So the obligation is on Mr F to do so.
OneFamily sent Mr F a message in mid-July 2019 to let him know one of his one-year fixed 
term products was due to mature. It explains Please remember, if you close your Fixed 
Rate product before the end of the term, a breakage charge will apply. For further details see 
your Online ISA Terms and Conditions. It advises the funds will be moved to the holding 
account, but also goes on to explain Mr Fs options, including:
3. Transfer to another ISA provider
Once youve chosen a new provider and completed an application with them, theyll 
contact us to arrange your transfer. Please note that partial transfers are not permitted.
[]Any Fixed Rate products within your Online ISA that are still within their fixed term will be 
subject to a breakage charge. For further details see your Online ISA Terms and 
Conditions.
Mr F responded to this message and explained that on maturity, he wanted to transfer the 
product to a different provider. OneFamily replied to explain that because he had another 
fixed rate product, partial transfers arent permitted  so the ISA could only be transferred in 
full.
Im satisfied this message clearly explained to Mr F what would happen on maturity of the 
product, as well as what would happen should it be closed before it matures or the ISA is 
transferred to another provider. Whilst I do appreciate that Mr F replied to say he wanted the 
product transferred on maturity, Ive seen evidence that his new provider requested the 
whole ISA transfer prior to maturity. This would have meant both products incurred the 
breakage fee. Im also mindful that transferring the individual product on its maturity isnt 
something Mr F would have been able to do.
OneFamily notified Mr F the day after the transfer request was received that it had accepted 
it and invited him to get in touch if he hadnt requested it. The day after, a further message 
was sent to confirm the transfer and let Mr F know the funds were being transferred. 
Ive listened to a recording of a call Mr F made that same day and its clear he was unhappy 
the breakage charges would be applied; he said on this call that he wanted to complain. But 
he was given the option to move the matured funds into an Easy Access account and then 
transfer the ISA on maturity of the second fixed rate product to avoid the breakage charges. 
Mr F didnt choose to take up this option and whilst he didnt specifically ask that the transfer 
continue, he didnt request that it be stopped either.
Although the funds werent received by the new provider until after the maturity date of the 
earlier maturing fixed rate product, the transfer was effective from the date it was accepted 
by OneFamily. So I agree the breakage charges have been applied fairly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. I say this because the ISA was transferred and the 
products within it closed before they reached the end of their fixed term.
The Transfers Out section of the Key Facts Document says:
Transfers to other providers
The transfer amount will be sent to the new provider within 3 working days of:
the day the account is closed; or,
the day all relevant deposits have cleared;
whichever is later
Mr Fs funds were sent on the Friday the account was closed and reached the new provider 
by Tuesday  so Im satisfied OneFamily transferred the funds in line with the time limits set 
out in the Key Facts Document of Mr Fs account.
I understand Mr Fs frustration as I appreciate it may not have been his initial intention to 
either transfer the whole ISA to another provider, or transfer it prior to one, or both, products 
maturing. But Im satisfied from what Ive seen that this wasnt due to an error by OneFamily; 
the transaction was carried out in line with the terms and conditions and the information 
given to Mr F about this was clear.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23July2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman