DRN-4281318
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays caused by ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) when transferring his 
pension policies to another provider.
What happened
Mr H complains that he has lost out when transferring his two pension policies from 
ReAssure. He said ReAssure received his transfer requests on 17 October 2022 but needed 
further information. It paid out based on an effective date of 17 October but his accounts 
remained active until they were actually paid in November 2022. He had values on 30 
October that were in total around £4,700 higher than the amount he was paid. He said the 
missing information was an address and post code. His adviser had chased multiple times 
and was told the transfer was in a queue. During this time his account stayed live from what 
he could see online. 
ReAssure didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that no fees were applied to the transfer 
values. The values used were those on the date of receipt of the request on 17 October 
2022. This was its standard process and it had acted appropriately. It needed to check 
information when the Origo request was made but the information was not received until 31 
October. It noted that Mr H called at the end of October and was given different values but at 
that point it was waiting for further information so the policy was still shown as being in force. 
The investigator thought that ReAssure had acted fairly. She didnt think that ReAssure had 
caused any delay. The system notes confirmed that they updated the Origo request on 19 
October to specify the missing information. She thought this was done in a timely manner 
and they could not process the request until the information was provided. Once the Origo 
system was updated on 31 October 2022 ReAssure then reviewed it and processed the 
requests and issued letters on 1 and 4 November which confirmed the payment. So this was 
within the 10-working day services standard. While there was a delay between 17 and 31 
October it was not due to ReAssure. Contact notes showed Mr Hs adviser made contact 
and was told on 20 October that there was an issue that needed to be corrected. She 
thought that ReAssure had processed the request by reference to 17 October correctly as 
this is what it said it would do. 
She referred to a letter it send dated 24 October 2022 which stated,
 Because the value of this policy moves up and down in line with the stock market, the 
current value is not guaranteed and we will re-calculate it on the day after we receive all the 
documents weve requested. 
Given the documents here were received on 17 October 2022, the next working day would 
be 18 October 2022. Its therefore reasonable that this date shouldve been used to 
determine the transfer value.
If there had not been a delay Mr H would have received the same amount. She didnt think 
ReAssure had done anything wrong.
Mr H didnt agree. He couldnt understand why the accounts were left open if they were 
frozen. How could they not be responsible for any delays when they kept the account open 
showing trading on his screen. It was more logical for it to stay open until they had all the 
information they needed. The other companies he applied to had no issue at the time and 
paid out promptly.  He thought it was fairer to use the value at the time the account actually 
closed.  They already had his NI number and postcode so why the delay. 
The investigator noted Mr H felt the date of 31 October should have been used. But wasnt 
able to tell Reassure how to run their processes. Even though they had his information on 
the system they needed to ensure the details provided matched. Just because the account 
was left open does not mean they should have used the values.  Mr Hs new provider didnt 
dispute that the Origo system was updated on 19 October to ask for further information and 
they replied around 31 October. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to make any award I need to decide that ReAssure has done something wrong.
It is not disputed that the Origo request was submitted on 17 October. Reassure said that it 
was its standard procedure to value policies as at the date the Origo request is received as 
this is when the client instruction to transfer is received. The request is treated as 
confirmation of intention to transfer. It did not always require further details. I can see that 
ReAssure wrote to Mr Hs representative explaining:-
the value of this policy moves up and down in line with the stock market, the current value is 
not guaranteed and we will re-calculate it on the day after we receive all the documents 
weve requested
ReAssure said this was its policy and it did explain it at the time. I cannot tell it how to run its 
business. It did tell Mr Hs IFA that this was the approach that would be taken.
I have considered when ReAssure received all of the documents it requested and whether 
this was the 17 October or later.
ReAssure said that while it received the Origo request it could not process the request 
without completing personal information checks for the policy holder. In effect while it had all 
the documents to make the transfer,  it still needed to check it had the correct person. 
I think it is prudent and reasonable to ensure that the request was coming from the correct 
person and that payment was made appropriately. However that did result in a delay in 
payment. But I cannot see that the delay was due to ReAssure. It updated the Origo 
Request on 19 October which is within two working days. It isnt ReAssures fault that the 
new provider did not reply until sometime later.
Once ReAssure received its answer it was able to verify and make the payment within a 
week and letters were sent out confirming payment. So I think it acted in a timely manner 
and the delay was not its fault.
I do understand Mr Hs frustration that he could still see a value online after 17 October and 
that he feels the amount paid would have been higher had it been calculated at a later date. 
But I can also understand that ReAssure would not wish to take steps to close down an 
account until it had verified it was making payment to the correct person. I think that was reasonable but did mean it remained visible online.
While I understand that Mr H feels he lost out because his policy value was increasing he 
would equally have been protected had it been falling in value, as he would have received 
the value on the day after all the documents were received in line with the ReAssure policy.
So in summary I think ReAssure has acted in accordance with its policies and in a timely 
manner. I dont think it did anything wrong so I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman