DRN-1488863
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that ReAssure Limited should have paid them a higher maturity 
value, given the amount of premiums they had paid in. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out their Guardian (now ReAssure) endowment policy in 1994. The policy 
was set up to achieve £32,130 on maturity. The policy also provided life and critical illness 
cover. 
In 2000 and 2003 Mr and Mrs C were sent high risk warning letters which showed the policy 
achieving £101 and £0 at 6% growth respectively. Mr and Mrs C complained about the sale 
of the policy and the low maturity values in 2003. The complaint wasn't upheld. They made a 
second complaint about the sale of the policy in 2005 and in 2006 the complaint was upheld 
and a comparison with a repayment mortgage carried out. Mr and Mrs C accepted the offer 
in full and final settlement of any claim they may have in relation to the policy. 
Between 2007 and 2018 Mr and Mrs C continued to be sent high risk warning letters with 
maturity values at the mid-growth rate from £0 to over £5,000. And later in 2018 they were 
notified their policy had a surrender value of over £7,900. When the policy was nearing 
maturity, Mr and Mrs C were sent a maturity pack confirming the maturity value was 
estimated to be over £6,200. Mr and Mrs signed for release of the funds on 14 August 2019. 
Mr and Mrs C complained as the amount of premiums paid was far higher than the maturity 
value. ReAssure didn't consider the complaint so far as it related to the previous mis-sale 
complaints made. It did, however, note that Mr and Mrs C's policy hit £0 value in 2017 which 
meant it should have ceased, so it arranged a refund of the premiums paid since then plus 
interest. 
Our investigator explained she couldn't consider the complaint so far as it related to matters 
complained about in 2003 and 2005. She found ReAssure had already fairly resolved the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs C asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman as the 
amount they received isn't reflective of the premiums paid, and the policy should have been 
cancelled in 2006. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs C are very disappointed with the maturity proceeds of their policy.  
As with any investment, the value received on maturity is dependent on the performance of 
the investment fund. In this case that was the unit-linked with-profits fund which contained no 
guarantees as to how it would perform. 
Mr and Mrs C say they were expecting to receive £20-30,000 on maturity. But this is contrary 
to all the information they have been sent about the policy since 2000. At various points 
since then, Mr and Mrs C have been notified their policy was expected to achieve between £0 and, at most, over £5,900 at the mid-rate of growth at maturity.  The policy didn't only 
provide for achieving a value at maturity but also life and critical illness for them, the cost of 
which came out of their investment.
Given the values provided to Mr and Mrs C it is evident their policy hasn't performed well, 
something they were fully aware of at the time they made their complaints about the sale of it 
in 2003 and 2005. Yet they decided to keep the policy going when they didn't have to; any 
decision about cancelling or surrendering the policy was theirs to make at the time. I find no 
basis now on which to ask ReAssure to pay Mr and Mrs C anything more. 
In any event, having looked at the offer Mr and Mrs C accepted in 2006, it would appear they 
have already settled this new complaint. I say this because the offer clearly set out that it 
was in full and final settlement of any claim made in connection with the policy.  That would 
include future claims Mr and Mrs C might not have been aware of at the time, such as this 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman