DRN-4145001
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC did not correctly process a transfer to his conveyancer 
to complete on his mortgage, which led to additional costs.  
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. In summary, Mr M telephoned Metro to set up a transfer of £74,324.73 that would act 
as a partial mortgage settlement as he was changing mortgage providers, but due to an 
error this was not processed until Mr M noticed the delay two weeks later. Mr M has said he 
incurred additional charges from the conveyancing company of £51.10 for every day that the 
payment was late after 1 November.
Metro Bank apologised and initially offered and paid £25  however when the complaint 
came to our service, they increase this to £250. But they didnt agree they should refund the 
additional charges Mr M incurred.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and agreed that Metro had made an error, but they 
did not agree that the losses Mr M had mentioned were correct. Because of this, they felt the 
£250 already offered was fair redress in the circumstances.
I wrote a PD in which I explained I had not seen enough evidence highlighting what Mr Ms 
specific losses were, so I felt the £250 compensation was fair. Mr M responded to this and 
pointed out specific sections of evidence that he felt quantified his loss. After reviewing the 
evidence again, I wrote another provisional decision in which I explained I intended to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint in full and include the additional losses he incurred. This read as follows:
Having reviewed the initial redemption statement with the expected redemption date of 1 
November 2022, the total Mr M was required to pay was £326,741.03. Mr M has said that he 
incurred an additional mortgage payment on 1 November 2022 which he wasnt expecting to 
pay of £1,554.31, which Ill talk about in more detail later. The completion statement Mr M 
has provided shows the total amount that was sent to his previous mortgage provider was 
£326,004.43. 
This means that the total amount paid to Mr Ms original mortgage provider was £327,558.74 
(which is the amount sent plus the additional mortgage payment). The difference between 
this and what Mr M was originally quoted by the mortgage provider as the redemption figure 
is £817.71. The redemption statement says that Mr M will be charged £51.10 for each day 
past 1 November 2022 that the payment is late. Mr Ms mortgage completed on 17 
November, 16 days past the original deadline, and the figures tally with Mr M incurring 
£51.10 for those 16 days. 
While the value of Mr Ms original transfer remained the same, it appears that his losses are 
in his advance and the amount borrowed from his new provider, so Im satisfied that he has 
lost out as a result of the delayed transfer. And I think it is reasonable to ask Metro Bank to 
cover these losses entirely, totalling £817.71, as well as the £250 compensation they have 
recommended. 
I dont think it is guaranteed that the additional mortgage payment Mr M incurred of 
£1,554.31 would not have been processed if not for the error made by Metro Bank. With this 
in mind, I have not included it as part of Mr Ms losses.
I have considered Metro Banks comments that Mr M should have checked the payment had 
been received by the conveyancing company, and I do think it would have been sensible to 
do so. However, Mr M has also said his mobile banking app was showing the payment as 
sent, and it was only when he logged onto his online banking that he saw it had not left his 
account. And it should be noted that Mr M not checking the payment had been received 
does not negate the error that Metro Bank made when processing the transfer. So, I think it 
would be fair for Metro Bank to cover all of the losses.
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and recommend a refund of the £817.71, plus 
£250 compensation.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision and felt that £500 compensation was a more 
reasonable figure, given the amount of time taken to resolve the issue.
Metro Bank responded and said that Mr M would have seen on 7 November when he made 
a transfer that the funds had not left his account. They did not think it was reasonable that  
Mr M had not contacted either the recipient or Metro Bank in a timely manner, so felt they 
should only refund 50% of the additional cost, totalling £408.86, plus the additional 
compensation of £225. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional comments provided by both parties. Metro Bank says that     
Mr M would have seen the transfer was not completed on 7 November when he made a 
separate transfer on the account. However, I set out in my provisional decision that he stated 
his mobile banking app was showing the payment as sent, and it was only when he logged 
into his online banking that he saw it had not left his account. And Metro Bank have not 
provided any additional evidence or explanation to persuade me otherwise.
In addition, they felt Mr M should reasonably have contacted either themselves or the 
recipient in a timely manner. I set out in my provisional decision that while I agreed it would 
have been sensible to do so, Mr M had no reason to think the transfer had not been 
processed correctly. So, I dont agree that Mr M has been negligent and therefore 
contributed to his losses, and I dont agree a reduction in the refund is reasonable. 
Ive also taken on board Mr Ms comments that he feels £500 compensation would be more 
reasonable. Compensation can be subjective and what might feel reasonable to one person 
might not feel enough to another for the exact same circumstances. On balance, I think the 
additional £225 is reasonable for the time Mr M spent resolving the issue with Metro Bank, 
and I dont agree this should be increased further.  
Putting things right
I now direct Metro Bank to refund the £817.71 and pay Mr M an additional £225 
compensation to bring the total to £250.  My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman