DRN-3090032
The complaint
Mr A complains about a range of issues to DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited (DAS) in relation to a legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties.
Mr A held an LEI policy with DAS which he claimed under. DAS agreed to cover part 
of his claim (for wrongful dismissal) but not other aspects.
Mr A has already made previous complaints about this LEI policy. These cover topics 
which I will not go over again within this decision.
Within this complaint Mr A says he believed that DAS was representing both him and 
the party he was claiming against (Company A). Both of these companies have 
similar names and are part of a shared parent group. Mr A also felt DAS offer 
(around £650) towards his legal costs wasnt fair.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He said DAS shouldve made 
the distinction between itself and Company A clearer. So, he directed DAS to pay 
£150 for the confusion caused. And he said it was reasonable for DAS to assess 
legal costs at the end of proceedings using an independent costs draftsman. He said 
any complaint regarding the draftsman directly would need to be made through the 
appropriate channel. And that to challenge the costs in question Mr A would need to 
instruct his own draftsman.
DAS disagreed, and said it wasnt aware of Mr As confusion between companies 
and wouldve put this right had it known. 
Our investigator put this message to Mr A, saying he would change his view to a non-
uphold if evidence of the complaint wasnt provided.
Mr A disagreed about the sum of compensation awarded. He said the conflict of 
interest between DAS and Company A was unacceptable. And he wouldnt be willing 
to provide evidence of having complained about this topic previously. He also said 
DAS had failed to provide any clear breakdown of its settlement to him.
As the parties didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I 
issued my provisional thoughts on 21 September 2021 explaining why I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint. Ive included an extract of this below.
Alleged conflict of interest
Mr A has said the nature of DAS taking action against Company A is unacceptable 
due to the conflict of interest between parties. And that DAS failed to make this 
distinction clear to him. Mr A has referenced websites and internet searches that 
show the companies to be part of a parent group and easily mistaken for one 
another.
DAS and Company A are separate companies. And while I understand Mr A may 
have been confused by the similarities of their names or parent group, this isnt 
something Id have expected DAS to draw to his attention or clarify unless it was 
specifically asked. I say this as these sorts of relationships are commonplace across 
insurance and the wider industry and not unusual. Furthermore, Mr A hasnt provided 
any evidence to support that he did bring this confusion to the attention of DAS for it 
to resolve. So, I have little to demonstrate DAS was ever given the opportunity to 
clarify this matter.
But in any case, even if I agreed DAS couldve been clearer to Mr A about the 
relationships between parties, this wouldnt persuade me to make a financial award 
in this case. I say this as I dont think potential confusion around this caused him a 
level of distress that would warrant a payment of compensation.
Costs
Mr A has said DAS has failed to provide him with a reasonable sum. 
Within the complaint brought to me, I have been asked to consider whether the sum 
provided to Mr A is fair and reasonable. My consideration of this settlement does not 
extend to any disagreement Mr A may have about what aspects of cover should or 
shouldnt be paid under the policy.
DAS has said it would only ever pay proportionate costs and not more than the value 
of the claim in line with the policy terms. Ive looked at the policy and its comments 
are in line with the wording of the cover.
DAS said the sum of £626.40 is the sum quoted by Mr As solicitors as the value of 
the claim for wrongful dismissal. And it added 8% interest to this sum to account for 
the time the costs assessment began until it was paid. Having considered the 
documentation provided by Mr As own solicitors, £626.40 is the sum it attributed to 
payment in lieu of notice (the remedy for wrongful dismissal). So, its costs appear to 
me in keeping with the terms of the policy. 
Mr A has questioned how DAS has arrived at the figure paid. And Ive been given 
copies of emails from January and February 2021 addressed to Mr A from DAS, 
which specifically explain the above points. So, Im not persuaded it failed to explain 
this breakdown to him.
I gave both parties until 5 October 2021 to respond with any thoughts or further evidence. 
But neither DAS nor Mr A have provided anything else for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has indicated he disagrees with my provisional decision but has given no reasons why. 
As Ive been provided with no new arguments or evidence to consider. So, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman