DRN-1568805
 
The complaint
Miss M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly settled a third party 
claim that was made against her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Around February 2018, a third party made a claim against Miss M for an incident that caused 
damage to their vehicle. Miss M says she knew nothing about this claim until she was 
contacted by Admiral in September 2019  when it told her the claim had been settled and 
her no claims bonus (NCB) would be affected.
Miss M denied the incident happened and complained to Admiral because it decided to 
settle the claim. She says the claim is false and that theres no evidence of it having taken 
place. Miss M wants the fault claim removed and her NCB to be reinstated. 
Admiral says it tried to contact Miss M several times after being notified of the claim but 
didnt receive a response. Admiral says the third party threatened legal action, so it had no 
choice but to settle the claim in order to protect Miss Ms interests. Admiral settled the claim 
without admission of liability, so Miss M could pursue the matter herself if she wishes to do 
so. Admiral maintains that it acted in accordance with the policy terms.
Remaining unhappy, Miss M asked this service to step in. Our investigator concluded that 
Admiral had acted fairly, as he was satisfied that the insurer had made reasonable attempts 
to contact Miss M. The investigator acknowledged Miss Ms frustrations with the actions of 
the third party  but didnt think that Admiral had done something wrong.
As Miss M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im also of the view that Admiral acted fairly. I know Miss M will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain why.
My role isnt to determine liability  thats something only a court can consider. I can only 
look at whether Admiral has acted reasonably when making its own decision  I think it did.
The terms of Miss Ms policy say Admiral can defend or settle a claim on her behalf. This 
essentially allows Admiral to settle the claim in a way it chooses and it doesnt need 
Miss Ms agreement to do so. This is a common term in motor insurance policies.
Insurers are entitled to consider whether it is reasonable to challenge a claim and the likely 
chances of defending a claim in court. But insurers are expected to reasonably investigate a 
claim and consider the available evidence before making a decision.
I think Admiral took reasonable steps to investigate the claim. I say this because it appears 
Admiral made several attempts to contact Miss M in order to obtain her side of the story. 
Admiral has shown me letters it sent to Miss M in 2018 and 2019  informing her about the 
claim and asking her to make contact. Some of the letters also explain the steps Admiral 
could take if Miss M didnt get in touch, which include paying the claim and that her NCB 
would be affected. The final letters sent to Miss M around August & September 2019 explain 
that the claim was settled as the third party started legal action. 
Miss M says she didnt receive any of the letters Admiral sent other than the final letter that 
advised her the claim was settled. All the letters are addressed correctly and Admiral says it 
sent these. Miss M also hasnt reported any problems with receiving post.
Admiral says it also tried to contact Miss M by phone, email and SMS. Admiral has sent us 
copies of its internal notes which show that it did indeed make several attempts to reach 
Miss M. I havent seen copies of the emails Admiral sent to Miss M, but Ive listened to a call 
between Miss M and Admiral  during which Miss M confirms receiving several emails to an 
old email address. Miss M told Admiral that she thought the emails were a scam. But 
Admiral appears to have emailed Miss M using the email address it had on record. It also 
appears to have called her and left voicemails using the correct mobile number. So I cant 
say that Admiral has done something wrong because Miss M didnt believe the 
correspondence shed received was legitimate. 
Miss M questions why Admiral didnt challenge the claim in court. But as Ive said, under the 
policy terms, Admiral can settle the claim in a way it chooses and is entitled to consider the 
likely chances of defending the claim in court.
In this instance, I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably by agreeing to pay the claim. 
Admiral hadnt been able to reach Miss M and obtain her side of the story. So it had no 
testimony or evidence to consider. And if it failed to defend the claim in court, its likely 
Miss M wouldve had a judgement against her name. Admiral thought it was best to protect 
Miss Ms interests by paying the claim instead  and it did so without formal admission of 
liability  so Miss M could still pursue the matter against the third party. 
Miss M wants the fault claim removed from her records and her NCB reinstated. The terms 
of Miss Ms policy say her NCB would be reduced (unless she had guaranteed or protected 
NCB) if a claim is made on her policy or a claim is made against her. In this instance, the 
third party made a claim against Miss M which her insurer has chosen to settle and Miss Ms 
NCB wasnt protected or guaranteed. So Admiral hasnt acted unfairly by reducing her NCB.
By recording the claim as a fault claim against Miss M doesnt necessarily mean she was to 
blame for the incident. This is how insurers record claims when theyve been unable to 
recover the cost of the claim. In this case, Admiral paid the cost of the claim made by a third 
party. So it didnt act unfairly by recording this as a fault claim. In summary, I think Admiral took steps to carry out a reasonable investigation of the claim. It 
made numerous attempts to contact Miss M using different methods of communication. 
Admiral acted in line with the policy terms when it decided to settle the claim and I dont think 
it was unreasonable for it to do so. Therefore, Im not instructing Admiral to do anything more 
in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman