DRN-3309184
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) started to charge them for 
their packaged bank account, when they say it had been previously agreed that they would 
not have to pay the monthly fee.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have explained that around 1980 they were told that if they moved a separate 
business account to Lloyds, they would not have to pay for a Gold account and would 
instead receive the account for free.
In 2020, Lloyds said it would begin to charge Mr and Mrs M for their Gold account. Mr and 
Mrs M queried this and were told that as a resolution to their complaint they would not be 
charged if they kept their account balance above a certain amount. This agreement was 
known as a fee waiver. Lloyds also credited Mr and Mrs M with £107.17 to cover the cost of 
making the complaint and the inconvenience caused by this issue.
Subsequently in 2021, Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs M and explained that all fee waivers for 
all customers were to be withdrawn and that they would be charged for their account going 
forward.
Mr and Mrs M then complained to Lloyds again and in response, Lloyds explained that it 
would not be able to continue to waive the monthly account fee. But it did pay Mr and Mrs M 
£100 to reflect the additional inconvenience caused by this matter.
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators considered 
what Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds had said and provided and they felt that Lloyds need not do 
anything more to put matters right.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance I am going to first address the agreement made between Lloyds and Mr and 
Mrs M, and then I will address Lloydss decision to remove the fee waiver after the 
agreement made in 2020.
My understanding is that Lloyds staff members were able to make arrangements for the 
account fees for its range of packaged bank account to be informally waived. I say informally 
waived, because I cant see that there was a formal agreement in relation to the account fee 
being waived. I am though prepared to accept that it is more likely than not that at the time of 
the agreement, it may have been presented to Mr and Mrs M that this agreement would be 
in perpetuity.
However, in this instance I am satisfied that the member of staff from Lloyds made an error 
in guaranteeing a fee-free Gold account to Mr and Mrs M for life, as they had no way of 
making sure that this was the case. Especially as over time the products that a bank offers 
often change as do its internal policies in relation to informal fee waivers. So I am satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs M were misinformed. This services general approach is to put a consumer 
back into the position that they wouldve been in had an error not occurred. In this case the 
error was misinforming Mr and Mrs M by saying it would provide a fee-free Gold account for 
life, when the staff member who made this commitment was unable to guarantee this.
So, having found that Lloyds made a mistake, I need to do what is now possible to put Mr 
and Mrs M in the position they would have been in had they been given the correct 
information. In essence, I need to consider what Mr and Mrs M wouldve done differently had 
they been told that the agreement to provide them with a fee-free Gold account would only 
continue until a business decision was made to stop all such agreements. Overall, had Mr 
and Mrs M been told that they would only have the fee-free account for 40 years rather than 
for life, I cant see that this wouldve altered their decision to move their separate business 
account to Lloyds, as after all, this equates to a large amount of fees being waived.
Now in terms of Lloyds decision to remove the fee-waiver after its agreement with Mr and 
Mrs M in 2020, this is something that Lloyds is entitled to do. It is essentially up to Lloyds to 
decide what products and services it provides and also which ones to discontinue. 
Therefore, whilst I understand why Mr and Mrs M is dissatisfied by this, especially as they 
have been a customer of Lloyds for some time, I am unable to say that Lloyds decision to 
remove this feature of the Gold account is unreasonable. Im also mindful that when Lloyds 
withdrew the fee-waiver feature in 2021, they did so for all account holders, not just for Mr 
and Mrs M. So I dont think Mr and Mrs M were unfairly denied access to a fee-waiver when 
the decision to withdraw it was made.  
However, when making such changes to accounts, Lloyds is obliged to give notice to its 
customers. From what Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds have provided, Lloyds did give Mr and Mrs 
M reasonable notice of the withdrawal of the fee-waiver.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M chose to keep the account after this point. However, Mr and 
Mrs M were not obliged to keep the account and it was their choice to do so. So, I dont think 
it would be appropriate to ask Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs M any further account fees they 
mayve been charged since the final response letter, as I think they were fully aware of their 
options at the time.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I think that Lloyds did potentially get things wrong 
in offering a free Gold account for life, when that was not actually the case. I also understand 
that it would be disappointing that Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs M a further fee waiver in 2020 
before withdrawing this in 2021.
But I also think what Lloyds did to put matters right was reasonable. I therefore dont require 
Lloyds to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Charlie NewtonOmbudsman