DRN-2804660
The complaint
Ms O has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax charged her a monthly 
fee for rewards that came with a packaged bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current 
Account (URCA). She has also complained that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to her. 
Ms O thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest. 
What happened 
Ms O has been a customer of Bank of Scotland for quite a while. Bank of Scotland has sent 
us information from its records, which it says shows that:
for around ten years upto 2011, Ms O held a fee-free account, 
in September 2011, it sold her the URCA, which replaced her fee-free account and 
for which it charged the monthly fee,
Ms O kept the URCA for at least 18 years. 
I think that Bank of Scotlands records about this are probably reliable and I have taken them 
to be accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Os complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had treated her unfairly when it charged her the monthly fees or when it sold her 
the URCA. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank of Scotland should give Ms O any 
money back.
Ms O didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms O and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The rewards that came with URCA varied from time-to-time while Ms O held the account, but 
they usually included use of a car breakdown service, insurance for mobile phones and 
travel insurance, all of which Ms O has mentioned in her complaint. She has told us that she 
never used the rewards (for example, she never called out the car breakdown service) and 
has seen a television programme, or advert, which said this means she is entitled to have 
her fees back. 
I do not know which advert or programme Ms O saw, or what exactly it said, but it is not 
correct that even if she didnt actively use the rewards that came with URCA, Bank of 
Scotland should automatically give her the fees back. 
The rewards Ms O has described are designed to help customers if certain problems (such 
as a car breaking down) affect them. Obviously, these problems will not affect all of Bank of 
Scotlands URCA customers, but it is entitled to charge for making the package of services 
(or rewards) available to customers in case they need it. I accept that Ms O may well not 
have actively used the URCAs rewards, but Bank of Scotland is not under any obligation to 
return her monthly fees due to this lack of active use. 
Turning now to the question of whether Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Ms O. 
In 2011, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts (including URCAs) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Bank of Scotland used for Ms O, I would have expected it to give her a 
choice and tell her about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale, I 
would also have expected it to check that the URCA was a reasonable match for her 
circumstances before making its recommendation. 
As Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Ms O over 18 years ago, there isnt a great deal of 
reliable information to show me exactly what happened. So, I have used the evidence that I 
do have to work out what is most likely to have occurred. 
Bank of Scotland has told us in 2011 its usual practice was to sell URCAs on an information-
only basis, without giving any advice. I accept this, and as I havent seen anything to make 
me think that it changed its usual approach for Ms O, I have looked into this part of her 
complaint as being about a non-advised sale. 
Before buying the URCA, Ms O had held a fee-free account for several years and I think its 
unlikely that Bank of Scotland denied her the option to keep that account. It was not 
withdrawing fee-free accounts and they have been widely available in the UK for many 
years. I think Bank of Scotland probably gave her a fair choice. 
In also think its highly likely that Bank of Scotland told Ms O about the URCAs rewards. 
After all, it was trying to sell the URCA to Ms O and it was in its own interest to tell her what 
the account could provide. I also think Bank of Scotland probably told her about the monthly 
fees, as it would not have been feasible for the rewards of the account to be free of charge. 
The fees would also appear on Ms Os bank statements and I dont think Bank of Scotland 
would have tried to hide them from her. 
I dont think that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Ms O. 
Ms O has also mentioned that she paid for a separate car breakdown service and also took 
out sperate travel insurance when she went on holiday. Im not sure if this was in 2011, in 
later years when she held the URCA, or both. But as Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland met 
its obligations to Ms O, I dont hold it responsible for any duplication or separate costs she 
incurred in this way. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Os complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman