DRN-2380749
The complaint
Miss B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined her critical illness claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Miss B had critical illness cover through an Aviva group policy that was provided by her now 
former employer, who Ill refer to as C. Unfortunately, Miss B suffered a stroke on 31 March 
2020 and so she contacted Aviva to make a claim. Aviva declined the claim saying she 
wasnt covered as her employment with C ended before the stroke was diagnosed. 
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, a complaint was raised but their position didnt change. 
Aviva explained C had confirmed Miss Bs employment ended on 20 March 2020 and that, 
under the terms of the policy, cover ceased at this point. So, they couldnt pay the claim as 
the stroke occurred after cover had ended. 
The complaint was referred to our service but our investigator didnt think Aviva had to do 
anything further. She thought theyd declined the claim fairly and in lines with the terms of 
the policy.
Miss B disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure Miss B that I dont underestimate the impact the stroke has had on 
her. I know this will have been a very difficult time for Miss B and so Ive carefully considered 
whats happened. But, while I realise this isnt the outcome Miss B is hoping for, I dont think 
Aviva has acted unfairly or outside the terms of the policy when declining the claim. Ill 
explain why.
The terms of the policy say:
4 When cover ceases

Cover will stop when the policy is cancelled, premiums are not paid within 30 days of 
the due date, or when an employee;
is no longer employed by you;
C has confirmed to Aviva that Miss Bs employment ended on 20 March 2020. And so, under 
the terms of the policy, cover stopped being provided to Miss B at this point. It therefore 
follows that Miss B wasnt covered when she suffered the stroke. 
I understand Miss B has raised concerns about the date in which her employment with C 
ended. And that she also says C took the full premium from her pay for March and so cover 
ought to have been provided for the full month.
While Ive noted Miss Bs strength of feeling about this matter, I think it would be helpful for 
me to explain that I can only consider the actions of Aviva here. And I dont think its 
unreasonable, given C are the policyholder, for Aviva to rely on Cs confirmation of when 
Miss Bs contract of employment ended. 
The policy schedule also confirms, in respect of the cover cease date, that:
premiums in respect of leavers will cease at the end of the month, however the cover 
will be ceased immediately.
Im satisfied both the policy terms and the schedule confirm that cover stopped (immediately) 
upon Miss Bs employment ending with C. And I think its also relevant to add that, as the 
policyholder, it is C that pays the premiums for the group policy  so not Miss B directly. If 
Miss B therefore feels she has overpaid for her cover, she will need to take this up with C as 
a separate issue. 
Im very sympathetic to Miss Bs situation but, for the above reasons, I dont think Aviva has 
acted unfairly or outside the terms of the policy by declining the critical illness claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman