DRN-3312719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their travel insurance 
claim.
Any reference to AXA includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D booked their trip to the USA during April and May of 2019. They have a travel 
insurance policy alongside their bank current account. The policy is underwritten by AXA.
Their intended travel dates were from 14 March to 28 March 2020. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic.
And on 13 March 2020, the US president, declared a state of national emergency
in response to Covid-19. 
The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO)  formerly the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) published the following directive on 15 March 2020:
We are advising against all but essential travel to the USA following the US 
government announcement imposing restrictions on travel from the UK (and Ireland) 
effective from midnight on Monday 16 March EST or 4am on Tuesday 17 March 
GMT.
As Mr and Mrs D were concerned about travelling to the USA, they decided to cancel their 
trip on 13 March 2020. They managed to receive refunds directly for cancelling their trip for 
most of their costs but for their return flights from the UK to the USA, an internal flight as well 
a hotel booking. 
They therefore submitted a claim to AXA. It assessed the claim but declined it on the basis 
that when Mr and Mrs D cancelled their trip on 13 March 2020, there was no FCDO advice in 
place against all but essential travel to the USA. AXA said there was no cover on Mr and Mrs 
Ds policy for the cancellation costs of their trip. It also paid them £200 compensation for the 
poor service it provided.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt think AXA had declined 
the claim unfairly or unreasonably. She said because Mr and Mrs D cancelled their trip 
before the guidance from the FCDO came into effect which advised against all but essential 
travel, there was no cover for their cancellation costs. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I can see Mr and Mrs D feel strongly about both AXAs response to the claim as well as our 
investigators findings. Theyve provided comprehensive responses to both. Id like to 
confirm that by not repeating each and every point here, Im not in any way demeaning those 
responses. Additionally, Id like to reassure them that while I wont be responding to each 
and every point, I have read all their submissions carefully and will address the key points 
relevant to this complaint.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds policy as this forms the 
basis of their travel insurance contract with AXA. 
The travel disruption section Q of their policy sets what cover is available on page 84. This 
says:
What is covered 
Before You reach Your destination 
1. We will pay You up to £5,000 for Your unused travel, accommodation (including 
excursions up to £250) and other Pre-paid Charges that You cannot claim back from any 
other source if You cannot travel and have to cancel Your Trip as a result of: 
a. The Public Transport on which You were booked to travel from Your Home Area 
being cancelled or delayed for at least 12 hours from the scheduled time of departure; or 
b. You being involuntarily denied boarding (because there are too many passengers for 
the seats available) and no suitable alternative flight could be provided within 12 hours; or 
c. The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other 
regulatory authority in a country to/from which You are travelling advising against all travel 
or all but essential travel to the country or specific area You are travelling to providing the 
advice came into force after You opened Your account or made Your travel arrangements 
for this Trip (whichever is the later) and was within 28 days of Your departure date; or 
d. The insolvency of the Public Transport operator, accommodation providers or their 
booking agents; or 
e. Fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, volcanic eruption and/or volcanic ash clouds, 
tsunami, landslide, avalanche, hurricane, storm or an outbreak of food poisoning or an 
infectious disease meaning You cannot use Your booked accommodation. .
Mr and Mrs D have said they claimed back costs from other sources and the ones relating to 
this claim are those which they werent able to obtain refunds for. Based on the above there 
is cover on their policy for cancellation of a trip and for those unused costs of travel and 
accommodation. But cover for this would only be provided if they had to cancel a trip 
because of an event that happened as listed above. One of those events is if a trip has to be 
cancelled due to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel. In this case, this is the event that would have caused the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ds trip and therefore the claim 
falling into scope.
It's not in dispute that Mr and Mrs D cancelled their trip because of the news surrounding the 
Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020 and because of the ongoing events that were unravelling 
at the time. They no longer wanted to take the risk to go ahead with their trip and cancelled 
the day before they were due to depart. They say WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic on 
11 March 2020 and the US president declared a state of national emergency on 13 March 
2020. While I understand why Mr and Mrs D made the decision to cancel their trip, the 
reason for their cancellation wasnt because the FCDO advised against all but essential 
travel. The terms and conditions of their policy is clear in that a claim could be accepted 
(subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions) if they cancelled for this reason. And, 
while the FCDO did advise against all but essential travel, this wasnt announced until 15 
March 2020 and wasnt effective until 17 March 2020. 
Because the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ds trip didnt occur for an event thats covered 
under their policy, Im not persuaded their claim was declined by AXA unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs D have said they took reasonable precautions as required by them under their 
policy under the General Conditions section. This is set out on page 61 of the policy 
document and says:
2. Reasonable precautions 
At all times You must take all reasonable precautions to avoid injury, illness, disease, 
loss, theft or damage and take all reasonable steps to safeguard Your property from 
loss or damage and to recover property lost or stolen.
They say they complied with this condition of the policy and it has a special meaning since it 
is drawn to their attention in bold and is relevant to the policy as a whole. It shouldnt be 
paired with another condition of the policy where it is not relevant. Mr and Mrs D have also 
referred to the British Insurers Brokers Association to add further weight to their argument. 
Ive considered what theyve said. However, I dont agree. Regardless of any other section of 
the policy that might apply, the General Conditions section on Mr and Mrs Ds policy says 
that these conditions apply to the whole policy. I also note that not complying with the 
General Conditions of the policy isnt the reason AXA declined the claim. So while I 
understand and dont doubt that by cancelling their holiday, Mr and Mrs D were indeed 
taking reasonable precautions, the fact that they took reasonable precautions doesnt mean 
that the remaining terms and conditions of the policy ought to be disregarded. Taking 
reasonable precautions is a General Condition that applies to the whole of the policy, but 
there is still a condition that needs to be met for the insurer to accept a cancellation claim 
here. That is, the FCDO would have needed to advise against all but essential travel when 
the trip was cancelled. Unfortunately, there was no such advice in place when Mr and Mrs D 
cancelled their trip on 13 March 2020. Im not persuaded that taking reasonable precautions 
of itself is enough for the claim to be accepted. The condition under the cancellation section 
of their policy is pertinent to this claim.
Overall, taking everything into account, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask AXA to accept the claim. Im satisfied that AXA has declined the 
claim fairly and reasonably. It follows that I dont require AXA to do anything further.My final decision
For the reason given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against AXA Insurance 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman