DRN-3207166
The complaint
Mr J complains Vanquis unfairly defaulted the credit card account he held with them.
What happened
Mr J held a credit card account with Vanquis. His account was defaulted in December 2019 
after he experienced financial difficulties. Mr J cleared the balance he owed in May 2020.
In April 2021 Mr J complained to Vanquis and said theyd unfairly defaulted his account after 
he lost his job. He said hed managed his account well before his brief spell of financial 
difficulties. Vanquis looked into Mr Js concerns and issued their final response. In this they 
explained they had correctly defaulted Mr Js account after he missed payments in June, 
July, and August 2019. Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt think Mr Js complaint should be 
upheld. She agreed Mr J had missed payments and couldnt see that he had spoken to 
Vanquis about this at the time. Mr J disagreed with our investigator and maintained he had 
contacted Vanquis after losing his job.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so Mr J asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this isnt the answer Mr J hoped for, 
but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mr J is unhappy Vanquis defaulted his account following a period of financial difficulties after 
being made redundant. Mr J has said Vanquis treated him unfairly because its now causing 
him difficulties in finding a mortgage, and that he told them about his financial difficulties at 
the time. Mr J doesnt dispute that he missed some payments towards his credit card 
account. So, for me to uphold his complaint Id need to be satisfied Vanquis either defaulted 
his account incorrectly, or their actions caused Mr J to reasonably believe there would be no 
consequences for not making his obligated payments.
Before defaulting an account, wed expect businesses like Vanquis to follow the guidance 
set by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). They say a default may be registered 
when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments, and by the time the 
consumer is six months behind. To determine whether Vanquis acted in line with this 
guidance, I reviewed Mr Js statements.
Vanquis provided us with statements dating back to 2017, so Ive been able to get a good 
picture of the way Mr J managed his account. Having done so, he did generally keep up with 
his payments, but in line with his testimony about losing his job, things changed in 2019. Ive 
seen that despite there being an outstanding balance, Mr J didnt make any payments from 
June 2019 to December 2019  when his credit card account was defaulted. The lack of 
payments meant Mr Js account was more three months in arrears, so defaulting his credit 
card account around the six-month mark, in December 2019 was in line with the relevant 
guidance Id expect Vanquis to follow. So, in that respect, I do not consider Vanquis 
defaulted Mr Js account prematurely.
Vanquis has also sent copies of the letters that were sent to Mr J when his account was in 
arrears. Having reviewed these, Im satisfied they sent him clear information that detailed the 
status of his account and explained what the consequences might be if he didnt bring his 
account up to date. And before his account was defaulted, they correctly sent him a default 
notice in August 2019 that gave him the opportunity to bring his account up to date. Vanquis 
encouraged Mr J to contact them if he was experiencing difficulties with his repayments, and 
this is what Id expected them to have done before defaulting Mr Js account. So again, Im 
satisfied they did the right thing here.
Mr J says he called Vanquis on at least two occasions to let them know he may not be able 
to make his repayments due to losing his job. He said the first time he called was in 
April 2019. However, Vanquis has no records of these calls.
Mr J hasnt been able to send us anything that demonstrates when these calls took place. 
He also hasnt explained what Vanquis told him during these calls. So, given this limited 
information, and the fact he didnt have an outstanding balance in April 2019, I cant place 
much weight on this. And for that reason, Im not persuaded that Vanquis did anything that 
legitimately caused Mr J to believe there would be no consequences to him not making 
payments towards his outstanding balance.
Vanquis is obligated to report accurate information to credit referencing agencies, so them 
reporting Mr Js missed payments and subsequent default was reasonable. I appreciate the 
default is now causing Mr J problems in securing a mortgage, however, I do consider 
Vanquis did the right thing in 2019. I understand its frustrating the default will be on Mr Js 
credit file for a total of six years. However, they can be a useful tool to help consumers who 
are unable to make payments to towards their borrowing. Thats because they prevent 
additional interest and charges being added to the balance. Given Mr J didnt repay what he 
owed until May 2020, Im satisfied a default was a fair and correct course of action for his 
circumstances  particularly given no payments had been made since June 2019.
Given the above, Im satisfied Vanquis treated Mr J fairly, and I wont be asking them to 
remove the default from his credit file.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman