DRN-3854406
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) reduced his credit card limit with no 
explanation. He would like his credit limit restored.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr P has made several general points that I think its helpful for me to respond to so 
he can understand the remit of our service. He has told us other banks havent 
reduced his credit limit  that doesnt mean Lloyds were wrong to do so but I need to 
make it clear in this view I can only consider Lloyds actions and any impact on Mr P. 
He has also referred to the Unfair Contract Terms Act (UCTA) I need to make it clear 
that we are mindful of the law but not bound by it .Finally he is unhappy with Lloyds 
advertising making reference to one particular statement made by Lloyds. the 
statement is  general one that doesnt specifically refer to Mr Ps situation. Its not for 
us to tell business how to advertise and as our investigator has suggested Mr P can 
contact the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) if he wishes.
In terms of Mr Ps actual complaint, I do understand his frustration at Lloyds actions 
in reducing his credit limit when he has been a long-standing customer. Lloyds has 
explained it regularly reviews credit limits  to ensure they are appropriate  using 
account information and credit reference agency (CRA) information. I have seen its 
terms and conditions which do allow it to change credit limits at any time. 
I appreciate Mr P is concerned that there may have just been one specific issue on 
his credit file and he feels its unfair if this is the reason for his credit limit reducing. I 
dont know if this is the case or not but as I have already noted above Lloyds does 
use CRA information as part of its decision-making process. However, I have seen 
from its customer notes that Lloyds told Mr P that if he wanted his credit limit 
reinstating  he could contact Lloyds to provide further information  to consider this. 
So, Mr P does have an opportunity to discuss with Lloyds any information he feels 
might have impacted on its decision to reduce his credit limit.
I think Lloyds acted on its terms and conditions but also gave Mr P an opportunity to 
overturn its decision, so I dont find its actions unfair. I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to 
reinstate Mr Ps credit limit, but it seems he can contact the bank to provide 
appropriate information to request his limit is altered.
Lloyds has paid Mr P £40 compensation for poor service accepting Mr Ps version of 
a phone call with Lloyds as it couldnt trace the call. Mr P has told us that the credit 
reduction is to his detriment as credit cards are increasingly needed for transactions 
and he also feels Lloyds actions have made him a vulnerable customer.. I appreciate 
the points Mr P has made but he hasnt given us any evidence to show he is 
suffering financially as  a result of Lloyds actions or that its actions have left him 
vulnerable. So, I dont feel have any grounds to ask Lloyds to pay additional 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman