DRN-3460500
The complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hadnt followed her instructions correctly 
when making a foreign payment.
What happened
Ms L is a customer of HSBC and holds a premier account with them. In March 2021, Ms L 
requested an international transfer of around £50,000 from her account to her fathers 
account overseas.
This payment was flagged by HSBCs fraud detection system, and it was eventually 
reversed.
Ms L later spoke with HSBCs payment detection team, and after verification was completed, 
the payment was processed. During this time, Ms L requested the transfer to be made in 
Pound Sterling (GBP). However, Ms L believes it was made in US Dollar (USD).
Ms L says she needed the funds to be in GBP for future use. She says this resulted in 
financial loss as she needed to transfer the funds back to GBP, which caused a loss of 
around £3,000.
HSBC say that the payment was made in GBP as requested. They say they have been 
unable to locate any negative exchange rate difference and dont believe there has been any 
financial loss. They say that the initial payment (which had been reversed) would have 
credited $67,986.65. However, the payment which was made a few days later after speaking 
with the payment detection team credited the beneficiary by $68,081.10.
Ms L says shes attempted to contact HSBC for many months to try to resolve the issue but 
has been unable to. Ms L would like HSBC to compensate her for the financial loss incurred 
in having to convert the funds from USD back to GBP.
Ms L referred her complaint to our service. During our involvement, HSBC made an offer of 
£40 as they believe the complaint raised by Ms L should have been acknowledged and 
responded to earlier than it had been. HSBC has now credited Ms L with £40 into her 
account.
Our investigator found that HSBC had acted fairly in withholding the initial payment going 
through, considering the large sum involved and to protect their customer from possible 
fraud. He also found that there was no evidence to suggest Ms L had lost out on around 
£3,000. He reviewed the call Ms L had with HSBC when the payment was re-made and 
concluded that it was made as per her instructions. The investigator also found HSBCs offer 
of £40 to be fair in the circumstances for the service Ms L received from them.
Ms L disagreed with the investigators findings and requested the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. And so it has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs terms and conditions say that they can refuse any payment instruction if they 
reasonably suspect it relates to fraud or any other criminal act. HSBC have a duty to protect 
their customers and their money from fraudulent and criminal activity. Given the amount of 
money that was attempted to be transferred, I dont think the actions HSBC took to hold the 
payment while checks were completed to be unreasonable. Given this was to protect her 
from making a payment involving a possible fraudulent activity, I think HSBCs actions were 
fair.
Generally, when a customer wishes to make an international payment transaction using a 
UK bank, they will have a choice to make on how they send the money. A customer could 
tell their bank to convert the money into the destination currency before making the transfer, 
or they could send the money to the recipient in GBP. If the latter option is chosen, the 
customer wont know what exchange rate will be used by the beneficiary bank  and so 
wont know in advance exactly how much of the specific currency the recipient will get.
Ms L is unhappy as she believes HSBC acted against her instruction and instead converted 
the money to USD before making the transfer. She says she expected the fund to reach her 
fathers account in GBP.
I have listened to the call Ms L had with HSBC. During that call Ms L confirmed for the 
payment to be made in GBP. HSBC has provided screenshots of their internal systems that 
show the transfer of £50,000 was made, as requested. From what I have seen, I have no 
reason to doubt that the payment was made in GBP.
Ms L also believes she incurred a loss due to GBP depreciation when the transfer was 
made. She provided screen shots of a third party site of the opening and closing cross 
currency rates between GBP and USD on specific days. But these quotes are often 
indicative and are always subject to fluctuation through the day. Theres no single exchange 
rate for a currency that all banks must track or replicate  each bank will essentially set its 
own fluctuating exchange rate for each currency, taking into account various market 
considerations.
So I cant fairly say that HSBC has acted wrongfully in the way they processed Ms Ls 
payment.
I note the service Ms L received while complaining to HSBC. HSBC offered £40 in 
recognition of the service they provided and has since credited her account with this sum. I 
agree Ms L received poor service as there were occasions where she didnt receive a 
response from them when contacted. I think their offer is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc made an offer of £40 to settle the complaint and has now paid it to Ms L. 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I dont instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman