DRN-4393443
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited was irresponsible to lend to 
him.
What happened
Mr C was approved for a credit card with American Express on 23 January 2022, initially 
with a £10,000 limit. The limit was increased to £11,800 on 30 June 2022.
Mr C says that the credit limit wasnt affordable to him, and he subsequently got into financial 
difficulty. He says that he is struggling to make the minimum payments and adds that 
American Express then increased the credit limit without asking him.
American Express says the credit limit was based on internal and external checks and that it 
was unable to substantiate any errors. It offered Mr C the details of its Financial Difficulties 
team.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt satisfied that 
American Express had carried out proportionate checks and, based on the evidence hed 
seen, he found it likely that such checks would have shown that repayments on the new 
credit card were unsustainable. He said that Mr C should only pay back the amount hed 
borrowed, excluding all interest and charges.
American Express responded to say, in summary, that a default on a credit file would not 
result in an automatic decline. It says Mr Cs declared income of £32,000 is in line with 
current bureau income and that Mr Cs repayment history after opening the account 
indicated there was little or no risk in increasing the credit limit when it did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the following 
questions:
Did American Express complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Cs application and credit limit to satisfy itself that he would be able to 
repay the credit in a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did American Express make a fair lending decision?
Did American Express act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Initial Application
When Mr C applied for the card, Ive seen evidence to show American Express asked him 
about his employment and income, but I havent seen what, if any, other checks it carried 
out. These checks showed:
A declared gross income of £32,000 per year (around £2,100 per month);
Mr C was self-employed;
Based on the above, I dont consider American Express had enough information on which to 
make a fair lending decision. I say that because:
The nature of Mr Cs self-employed work meant that his income fluctuated;
A credit limit of £10,000 is a significant proportion of Mr Cs declared income;
The minimum payments on such a credit limit could be as much as £500 per month 
which is almost a quarter of Mr Cs declared monthly income.
So, I consider American Express should have found out more about Mr Cs financial 
circumstances before it approved the application. As such, Ive looked at Mr Cs bank 
statements and credit file and found:
His income was actually over £5,000 less than the £32,000 hed declared  this 
amounted to around £1,800 per month, of which £1,440 was from a stable source;
Mr C had two satisfied defaults on his credit file;
He had three loans on which he was repaying about £170 per month and a credit 
card almost at its £1,500 limit;
There were no housing or utility costs as these were included in his employment;
Other regular expenditure came to around £400 per month;
Based on the above Im not satisfied that American Express made a fair lending decision 
because:
A credit card is a long-term, open-ended credit facility and Mr C would have been 
committed to making minimum payments of around £500 if he made use of the 
£10,000 limit;
Given his existing credit facilities, this meant he needed to commit around 40% of his 
income to repaying credit (and over half of his guaranteed income);
He had limited disposable income each month with which to repay more than the 
minimum required.
So, I find Mr C could not sustainably afford to have a credit card with a £10,000 limit and it 
follows, therefore, that I also consider American Express should not have increased his 
credit limit when it did, in June 2022.In summary, I find American Express was irresponsible to have approved Mr Cs application, 
although I cant see it acted unfairly in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
oIf the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr C along 
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment 
to the date of settlement. American Express should also remove all adverse 
information regarding this account from Mr Cs credit file. 
oOr, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, American 
Express should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr C for the 
remaining amount. Once Mr C has cleared the balance, any adverse information 
in relation to the account should be removed from his credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires American Express to deduct tax from any award of 
interest. It must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks 
for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman