DRN-1819607
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. (Mapfre) applied two excesses for a travel insurance claim made in relation to his 
wifes lost belongings and cash.
What happened
The background circumstances are well-known to all parties, and so I wont rehearse these 
in detail. In summary, Mr R held travel insurance for him and his family. Mrs R lost her bag 
which contained personal belongings, as well as Euros and Sterling cash.
Mapfre's settlement included the deduction of two excess payments; one for the lost 
belongings and one for the cash. 
Mrs R was unhappy with this but Mapfre said the policy terms say an excess is payable for 
each incident under every section that applies, so two excesses are applicable in Mrs Rs 
claim. Mrs R remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the complaint. Our 
investigator said Mapfre had applied the two excesses fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding this 
complaint and will explain why.
A policy excess is applicable on most insurance claims, unless an option to have 'no excess' 
is available and added to the policy for payment. The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy 
say:
Under most sections of the policy claims will be subject to an excess. This means that you 
will be responsible for paying the first part of each and every claim per incident claimed for, 
under each section by each insured person, unless you have paid the additional premium to 
waive the excess as stated in your insurance certificate.
I dont agree with Mrs R that the above term is ambiguous and/or misleading. Its clear that 
any claim made under different sections of the policy will be subject to the applicable excess 
for each section used in the claim.
Mrs Rs claim falls under two sections of the policy; section E  baggage, and section F - 
personal money. The policy Schedule of Benefits clearly separates out the relevant 
sections with the relevant excesses. And the insurance certificate is clear that the option to 
have a zero excess wasnt taken out when the policy was bought. Im satisfied Mapfre has 
clearly shown what excesses and limits apply to each section of cover under the policy. 
In an email to Mrs R regarding the claim, Mapfre set out the two sections having been 
considered as personal belongings and personal money. Even though Mrs R made one claim, the items lost in the claim fell under different sections of the policy. As such, Mapfre 
has applied an excess payment to each section in keeping with the policy wording. I am 
satisfied Mapfre has fairly charged two excess payments for the claim.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman