DRN-2813507
The complaint
Ms G complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) distributed the death 
benefits from her late partners pension unfairly.
 
What happened
Ms Gs partner had a pension plan with Aegon. In late 2019 he asked Aegon to release his 
pension funds due to his serious ill health. He also updated his death benefit nomination 
form, appointing Ms G as sole beneficiary. This replaced an earlier death benefit nomination 
form from 2012 that included additional beneficiaries.
In December 2019, Ms Gs partner sadly passed away. The process to release his pension 
funds due to serious ill health hadnt been completed, so the funds remained with Aegon. 
But Aegon had told him that his fund was worth a little under £124,000. So Ms G knew the 
value of her partners pension account at that time.
After his death, Aegon spent several months investigating dependants. Ms G says she had 
to chase them many times to get an update on their progress. In July 2020 Aegon told Ms G 
she would get a payment of just over £87,000.
Aegon had decided to split the pension benefits differently from the December 2019 death 
benefit nomination form. But Ms G was unclear whatd happened. Aegon wasnt able to give 
her full details, as she hadnt been nominated to receive information about her late partners 
plan.
Unhappy with Aegons decision, Ms G complained. She felt that her partners wishes hadnt 
been honoured. 
Ms G told Aegon the amount theyd said she would receive wasnt what shed been 
expecting. She felt that either there were other beneficiaries, which went against her late 
partners wishes. Or that the value of the pension had dropped due to the delay in 
distributing it. She wanted Aegon to explain how theyd arrived at the payment theyd offered 
her.
In their August 2020 final response letter, Aegon said they hadnt done anything wrong. They 
explained it was their role to decide who should receive the benefits from the pension plan.  
And that they werent legally required to follow the death benefit nomination form. 
Unhappy with their response, Ms G again asked Aegon to explain why she hadnt received 
the full fund value. 
Aegon told her that their decision was to pay her a portion of the fund, not all of it. They said 
the remainder of the fund had gone to other beneficiaries who they werent able to name. 
They also explained how theyd protected the value of the pension as soon as theyd 
received the notification of death.
Unhappy with this response, Ms G brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. She felt that Aegon had distributed the death benefits fairly.
Ms G didnt agree. She felt that our investigator hadnt understood her complaint. She said 
that there wasnt anyone else as financially dependent on her late partner as she was. So 
her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Ms G believes that Aegon didnt distribute the death benefits from her late partners plan 
fairly. She feels his wishes had been clearly expressed in his December 2019 death benefit 
nomination form, which he completed just before his death. But Aegon say they correctly 
distributed the benefits after taking all relevant factors into account.
So the question that I need to answer is whether or not Aegon fairly and reasonably 
discharged their duties in terms of how they decided to distribute the death benefits owed 
from the pension plan. 
Its clear that Ms G feels strongly about what happened and that the subject matter of this 
complaint is emotive. Whilst Ive taken into account everything that Ms G has submitted 
about the background to this situation, my decision focuses on what Aegon did. 
Pension plans arent part of an individuals estate. So Aegon, as the administrator of this 
pension plan, have the responsibility or discretion of deciding who receives the death 
benefits. 
In exercising their discretion, Aegon could take into account - but didnt have to follow - Ms 
Gs partners wishes. These were detailed on his latest death benefit nomination form. 
The death benefit nomination states on the first page: Although we may take your 
nominations/wishes into account, these aren't binding and the final choice rests with us as 
scheme administrator of the Scheme. The declaration also states: I'm aware that you have 
absolute discretion to choose who will benefit from any lump sum death benefit payable on 
my death. This expression of wish is not binding on you. 
I consider this wording to be clear in explaining that Aegon retains discretion on how death 
benefits are distributed. But I would only expect Aegon to exercise any discretion after a 
thorough investigation.
So, Aegon needed to properly investigate the position in respect of potential beneficiaries. 
The policy conditions define what a dependant is as follows:
your spouse, civil partner and/or children under the age of 23 or
anyone who was, in our opinion, financially dependent or interdependent on you at 
the date of your death or
anyone who was, in our opinion, dependent on you because of physical or mental 
impairment at the date of your death. Theres nothing unusual about this definition. And Id expect Aegon to investigate potential 
dependants when trying to fairly distribute the death benefits.
Follow their investigations, Aegon didnt pay out the benefits in accordance with Ms Gs late 
partners most recent expression of wish. Theyd given due consideration to the statements 
and evidence provided by the relevant parties and concluded that other beneficiaries should 
also be considered. 
Based on all the evidence Aegon obtained from the additional beneficiaries, I havent seen 
anything to conclude that Aegon acted unreasonably in allocating the funds to the 
beneficiaries as they did. So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask them to reconsider their 
discretion here. Its not the role of this service to replace the discretionary judgement Aegon 
are entitled to make with our own judgement.
I acknowledge that Ms G has said: I am also confident that there no other individuals that 
can provide evidence that they were dependent at the time of death. And shes also told us 
she didnt think anyone else was as financially dependent on her partner as she was. But I 
can confirm that Aegons decision to distribute the death benefits in the way they did was 
based on evidence. And Ive seen that evidence and wouldve drawn similar conclusions to 
Aegon.
I can see that it took several months for the death benefits to be distributed. And that this 
wouldve been stressful for Ms G. But from what Ive seen, Aegon spent that time gathering 
evidence to ensure that the death benefits were distributed correctly. And Im satisfied that 
Aegon distributed the death benefits quickly once their investigations were complete.
I also note that although Ms G thought that the pension fund had been frozen at the time of 
her partners death, it was actually placed into a cash fund. This aimed to protect the value 
of the fund. So the total death benefits were actually the higher of the value of the pension 
fund at the date of Ms Gs partners death and the value of the cash fund. Therefore, I can 
see that this didnt result in a loss.
I understand that Ms G feels strongly about this and that this outcome will come as a 
disappointment.  Whilst I sympathise with her position, I cant fairly and reasonably uphold 
her complaint. 
Im very sorry for Ms Gs loss. But I dont think that Aegon did anything wrong when they 
distributed the benefits from Ms Gs late partners pension in the way they did. So I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman