DRN-2499718
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, was misrepresented to him. 
Mr G is being helped with his complaint by a representative.
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G and to Oodle Car Finance on 14 
May 2021. In my provisional decision I set out what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr G under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car 
Finance that he electronically signed in June 2019. The car was stolen in August 
2019 and Mr Gs insurance claim was voided because hed declared that the car was 
fitted with a tracker but there was no tracker on the car.
He complained to Oodle Car Finance that hed been told by the dealer that a tracker 
would be fitted but it said that Mr G was aware that if the loan amount was less than 
£25,000 there was no requirement for a tracker to be fitted to the car and it had not 
found any evidence to suggest that there was an agreement in place to install a 
tracker on the car. It said that there had been an error in logging his complaint and 
would be awarding him £50 as a goodwill gesture due to the delay in its response. 
But it said that his account was in arrears and had been sent to its solicitors.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He wasnt persuaded that Mr G 
was told that a tracker wouldn't be fitted during the credit broking negotiations and he 
felt that it was reasonable that Mr G relied on the information that he was given about 
a tracker being fitted, as it isn't something that would be visible.
He recommended that Oodle Car Finance should: 
pay £4,123.91 to reflect what Mr G would have got from the insurance 
settlement (the market value of the car of £28,550 less the £24,426.09 to 
settle the finance agreement);
clear the outstanding balance on Mr G's finance agreement and confirm he 
had nothing further to pay;
pay £200 compensation to Mr G for the inconvenience caused; and
remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies and 
record the debt as settled.
Oodle Car Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It says that the dealer has advised that:
it isnt an authorised tracker dealer, doesn't sell trackers and has no one 
qualified to fit them so it had no reason to discuss them with Mr G;
the only time a tracker would be discussed is if a loan exceeds £25,000 and 
then Oodle Car Finance would need to organise a tracker, but this loan didn't 
exceed that value; and
Mr G chose to add an additional deposit to reduce the balance to finance to 
under £25,000; and
no tracker was agreed with Mr G.
Oodle Car Finance also says that the calls between Mr G and his insurance broker 
dont necessarily reflect any conversation between Mr G and the dealer and no 
evidence has been provided showing that the car was advertised as having a tracker 
fitted prior to purchase.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
The hire purchase agreement shows that the price of the car was £34,902, a deposit 
of £16,250 was paid, an outstanding loan was settled for £5,572.09 and the amount 
of credit provided to Mr G was £24,224.09. It also shows that he agreed to make two 
payments of £579.90 and 58 monthly payments of £529.90 for the car to be supplied 
to him.
The dealers invoice for the car shows that its price was £33,975 but Mr G paid £927 
for accessories (an admin fee, a warranty and alloy gators). It also shows that the 
deposit comprised £8,000 cash from Mr G and £8,250 for a part-exchange.
Theres no reference in either of those documents to a tracker being fitted on the car 
and it seems clear that the car wasnt advertised as having a tracker and hadnt 
previously had a tracker fitted.
In his call with the insurance broker, Mr G says that the dealer was putting a 
category 7 tracker on the car and in later discussions he refers to a particular brand 
of tracker. I consider it to be more likely than not that a tracker was discussed by Mr 
G and the dealer but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
the dealer told Mr G that a tracker would be fitted to the car.
The dealer says that Mr G was aware that a tracker would be required by Oodle Car 
Finance if the amount of the finance it was providing was more than £25,000  but 
the amount of credit that it provided was £24,224.09 so it didnt require a tracker to 
be fitted. If it had been agreed that a tracker would be fitted, I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the finance arrangements would have been structured so that the 
amount of credit being provided by Oodle Car Finance was more than £25,000 and 
that it would then have been involved in arranging the tracker. I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the finance arrangement was structured so as to avoid the amount 
of credit being over £25,000 to avoid needing to have a tracker fitted.
The dealer says that it isnt an authorised tracker dealer, doesn't sell trackers and 
has no one qualified to fit them. I dont consider it to be likely that the dealer would 
have told Mr G that it would fit a tracker to the car in these circumstances. When the 
car was supplied to Mr G he was given no information about a tracker and, if a tracker was an important consideration for him, I consider it to be reasonable that he 
would have expected to receive some information about the tracker and would have 
asked the dealer about it. I dont consider it to be likely that the dealer told Mr G at 
that time that a tracker had been fitted to the car.
Mr G may have misunderstood from his discussions with the dealer that the car was 
being supplied with a tracker but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that the dealer made a misrepresentation to him about a tracker on the car or 
that he was induced into entering into the hire purchase agreement by a 
misrepresentation made by the dealer.
I sympathise with Mr G for the difficulties that hes been caused in these 
circumstances but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Oodle Car Finance to take the actions recommended by our investigator. Mr 
G stopped making the payments for the car after it was stolen and Oodle Car 
Finance provided a settlement quote of £24,426.09 in September 2019.
I appreciate that the financial effects of the car being stolen and his insurance being 
declared void may be severe for Mr G. As the car was stolen and Mr G received no 
benefit from it after August 2019, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Oodle Car Finance to charge Mr G no more under the agreement than the settlement 
amount of £24,426.09 and that it should try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement with him for that amount. I also consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to remove any adverse information about the agreement that its 
recorded on Mr Gs credit file relating to the period from the date that the car was 
stolen until the date of my final decision on his complaint.
Oodle Car Finance accepted that there had been an error in logging Mr Gs 
complaint and paid him £50 company for its delay in its response to it. I consider that 
£50 is fair and reasonable compensation for the issues that hed experienced in its 
handling of his complaint. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances for me to require Oodle Car Finance to pay any other 
compensation to Mr G.
Subject to any further representations by Mr G, his representative or Oodle Car Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. Mr Gs representative 
has responded in detail to the dealers comments about our investigators recommendations 
and to my provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
Mr G has also made a complaint to this service about his insurance company and 
both complaints should be considered at the same time;
the insurance company has failed to participate in the complaint in any real or useful 
way;
hes provided two call recordings  the first is a recording of Mr Gs conversation with 
his insurance broker that he says has been provided to show that Mr G had been told 
and had every right to believe that a tracker had been fitted to the car and the second 
is a recording of Mr Gs conversation with the insurance company in which he was 
told that the car had previously been stolen and recovered twice;
the dealer said that a tracker would be, and then said that a tracker had been, fitted - 
so it misrepresented the facts to Mr G;
the obvious and most probable conclusion is that the dealer did make 
representations to Mr G that led Mr G to believe that a tracker had been fitted;he believes it to be the case that the dealer is fully aware that it made a 
misrepresentation to Mr G so has denied that any discussion about trackers took 
place at all; 
Ive placed undue, unjustified and improper weight on the submissions made by 
Oodle Car Finance and the dealer (even though they have demonstrated their 
capacity to misrepresent the facts about this complaint); and
no part of Mr Gs evidence has been shown to be anything other than entirely 
accurate and honest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision.
This service considers each complaint on its individual merits. In this complaint, which Mr G 
has made against Oodle Car Finance, Im considering whether the car was misrepresented 
to Mr G. Mr G has also made a complaint about his insurance company. Although many of 
the facts and evidence in both complaints are the same, the two complaints are independent 
of each other. I dont consider that it would be appropriate for the two complaints to be dealt 
with together or that there should be any further delay in a decision being issued on this 
complaint. Mr Gs complaint about his insurance company will continue to be dealt with 
separately and our investigators recommendations on that complaint will be made in due 
course.
Mr Gs representative has again provided recording two call recordings and he says that 
Mr G was told by the insurance company that the car had been previously stolen and 
recovered twice. Ive again listened to the call recordings that have been provided and the 
insurance company doesnt say in that call that the car has previously been stolen and 
recovered. Even if the insurance company did tell Mr G that the car had been stolen and 
recovered twice, Ive not been provided with any evidence to show that the dealer was 
aware of that or that it misrepresented the cars history to Mr G.
I consider it to be more likely than not that the dealer did discuss a tracker with Mr G (and its 
clear from his conversations with the insurance broker that he understood that a tracker 
would be fitted), but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the dealer 
told Mr G that a tracker would be fitted or that a tracker had been fitted to the car. Nor am I 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the dealer made a misrepresentation 
to Mr G about a tracker on the car or that he was induced into entering into the hire purchase 
agreement by a misrepresentation made by the dealer.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Oodle Car Finance to 
take the actions described in my provisional decision and as set out below.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I order Oodle Financial Services 
Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, to:
1. Charge Mr G no more under the agreement than the settlement amount of 
£24,426.09.
2. Remove any adverse information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Gs 
credit file relating to the period from the date that the car was stolen until the date of 
my final decision on his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman