DRN-2948782
The complaint
Mr H complains (via a representative) Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out effective
affordability checks. Had it done so, then Mr H wouldnt have been provided with the 
loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Hs complaint. Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was not intending to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr H took four loans between December 2016 and July 2018. Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below. 
Loan 
NumberLoan 
AmountTerm 
(weeks)Cost per 
weekDate of 
LoanActual Repayment 
Date
1 £260 20 £19.50 02/12/2016 19/07/2017
2 £200 33 £10 19/07/2017 12/12/2017
3 £300 33 £15 12/12/2017 06/07/2018
4 £100 20 £7.50 26/07/2018 14/02/2019
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have granted loans 1 to 3. But the
adjudicator thought that loan 4 shouldnt have been lent. He said the pattern of lending
indicated Mr H had become persistently reliant on the loans and therefore shouldnt have
provided it.
Mr H appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loan 4. In summary, it said;
the number of loans in 20 months wasnt excessive,
loan 4 was the smallest loan to date,
based on what Mr H declared about his income and expenditure, he had £150 a
week disposable income to afford the repayment of £7.50 and
there is no other evidence to suggest the loan was unsustainable.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr H doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Morses wasnt wrong to
lend loans 1, 2 and 3. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I
need to make a finding about it. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship between Morses and Mr H. Instead, this decision will focus on
whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loan 4.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Loan 4
As the adjudicator has pointed out, by loan 4 Mr H had taken four loans in around 20 months
and Mr H was regularly taking a new loan either on the day the previous one was repaid or
very shortly afterwards. Which is why the adjudicator thought this loan should be upheld.Overall, I dont think the loan activity was quite enough to suggest Mr H had become reliant
on the loans. The quick uptake of lending is in my view a concern. But there was a small
break of three weeks between repaying loan 3 and taking loan 4 which Ive considered. Loan
4 was also Mr Hs smallest loan to date  with the smallest weekly repayment. And this did
turn out to Mr Hs final loan. But the number of loans and time in debt, is in my view, not
particularly concerning, at this point in time. So, I dont agree with the adjudicator that
Morses ought to have reasonably concluded that this loan was unsustainable for Mr H.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. Mr H had been almost
continuously indebted to Morses for 20 months, and he was returning for further credit,
extending his indebtedness for at least another five months. I dont think it was reasonable
for Morses to have relied on what Mr H declared to it about his income and expenditure.
Even though this information suggested Mr H had disposable income of around £150 per
week, Morses, in my view still needed to do more.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Hs actual financial position to
ensure loan 4 was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or his own credit report. This
mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mr Hs general financial position.
Mr H hasnt been able to provide his bank statements, but his representative has provided
us a copy of a credit report. The credit report shows two historic County Court Judgements
from 2014. There is also, in my view, a significant amount of historic high cost credit
between 2014  2015. But given the time that had passed I think it wouldve been
proportionate for Morses to conclude that he wasnt as reliant on this form of lending as he
once was.
But when loan 4 was approved in July 2018 I can see that Mr H has some outstanding credit
including a personal loan, another home credit loan from another provider and what appears
to be two hire purchase agreements. The total monthly cost of this credit appears to be
around £400 per month. So, the loan wouldve still looked affordable to Morses, especially
because the repayment was small.
But without any further information from Mr H about his living costs, its difficult for me to
conclude that had Morses carried out proportionate check it wouldve likely thought that the
loan was unaffordable for Mr H.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent loan 4. Even considering the content of the credit report, based
on what Mr H declared to Morses for his income and expenditure, loan 4 appeared
affordable. Im not minded therefore to think Morses was wrong to have provided this loan.
As this is the case, Im not intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 4. I appreciate
this will be disappointing for Mr H. But I hope that hell understand why Im intending to reach
these findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses didnt respond to the provisional decision and it therefore hasnt provided any new 
comments or evidence for me to consider. Mr H didnt appear to agree with the findings that I reached in the provisional decision. In 
response he said Morses would offer a new loan prior to the outstanding loan finishing and 
money from new loans went to repay previous loans. This, in Mr Bs view, is irresponsible 
lending. 
I accept that for loans 2 and 3, which were taken out on the same day the previous loan was 
repaid it was likely, that these were in effect refinances. But, when loan 4 was approved, 
there was a couple of weeks gap after loan 3 had been repaid, so I dont think any money 
from loan 4 went towards repaying loan 3.
And I dont think, Mr Hs borrowing pattern wouldve indicated to Morses that the loans were 
being lent irresponsibly or that the lending was now unsustainable. But there were, in my 
mind, signs that Morses needed to do further checks, as I outlined in the provisional 
decision. 
But Mr Hs comments havent persuaded me to change my view on this part of his complaint 
case and I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision.
So, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I do think Morses needed to do 
more when the final loan was granted. But based on what Ive seen, I still think had Morses 
carried out more in-depth checks, it wouldve believed Mr H couldve afforded the fourth and 
final loan. Im therefore not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman