DRN-2805102
The complaint
Ms G complained that Progressive Money Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms G took out two loans with Progressive as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 02/06/2017 20/12/2017 60 £6,000.00 £274.60
2 30/05/2018 *Outstanding 24 £5,000.00 £374.53
Ms G brought her complaint to us when she wasnt able to resolve it with Progressive. In 
summary, Ms G complained that the loans were unaffordable and shouldnt have been lent if 
Progressive had properly taken into account the missed payments and defaults to other 
lenders shown on her credit file and the details of her spending shown on her bank 
statements.
Our adjudicator looked into Ms Gs complaint and he thought that information Progressive 
gathered about Ms Gs financial situation when she applied for loan 1 showed that Ms G was 
having problems managing her money. And although the loan was partly to be used for 
clearing some other debt our adjudicator said it wasnt enough to clear all the outstanding 
debt and Ms G still had to make significant monthly repayments towards her other loans. So 
our adjudicator thought it was unlikely she would be able to sustainably repay loan 1.
Our adjudicator felt that the information shown on the credit checks Progressive carried out 
for loan 2, and the fact that Ms G was asking to borrow again for debt consolidation 
purposes, showed that loan 2 would also likely be unsustainable for her.  
Our adjudicator set out detailed directions indicating what Progressive needed to do to put 
things right. 
Progressive disagreed with our adjudicators view. In summary, it said:
- Ms G had explained the 2 defaults showing when she took out loan 1 dated back 
to when she had been off work ill for 4 months and had to prioritise her spending 
-by the time she applied for loan 1 she was back in work and repaying these 
debts via arrangements with creditors
- this loan was affordable as evidenced by the fact Ms G maintained the 
repayments until the loan was settled early
- although the loan amount was insufficient to clear all her debts, Ms G was left 
with 3 unsecured credit accounts, her mortgage, this loan and her mobile phone 
contracts
- when Ms G applied for loan 2 her total outstanding debt had reduced
- 2 defaults look like errors on her credit file as these relate to debt settled using 
loan 1
- although our adjudicator mentioned 6 delinquent accounts at this time, it has 
identified only 1 account with a delinquency date dated after June 2017
- Ms Gs balance to limit ratio was 64% and following the completion of loan 2 her 
outstanding active creditor balances remaining on her credit file was £ 4,013. 
That also included creditors that Ms G stated that she wanted to settle but were 
not directly consolidated by Progressive Money
- there were no foreseeable future changes to Ms Gs circumstances as she had 
stable employment and regular income, her bank statements didnt show 
evidence of serious financial problems such as regular unpaid transactions or 
escalating levels of overdraft.
Progressive asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. The complaint came to me to 
decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Progressive 
relied on when it decided to lend to Ms G. 
Loan 1Progressive asked Ms G about her income and expenses and carried out credit checks - and 
it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that Progressive relied on 
when it agreed to provide this loan to Ms G. It also saw some bank statement information.
Ms G had told Progressive her earnings could vary month to month between £1,700 - £2,500 
depending on overtime. Progressive recorded Ms Gs monthly income as being around 
£2000 per month so I think that figure was reasonable. 
Ms G told Progressive that her mortgage would be coming to an end in a few months time. 
And that her partner contributed towards household expenses. When looking at what she 
could afford, Progressive included amounts for her mortgage repayment and other main 
living costs (around £670), the costs of running her car (just over £230 each month) and it 
allowed approximately £780 for Ms Gs spending on other credit. 
Overall, Progressive calculated Ms G shouldve had around £390 still available. 
So Progressive felt her loan repayment of £274.60 for this loan looked like it should be 
affordable for Ms G  particularly bearing in mind that she would be better off as a result of 
using the loan to pay off other debt. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont think that Progressive properly took into account the information 
it was able to see on the credit checks it carried out when thinking about whether Ms G 
would be able to repay this loan in a way that was sustainable. 
Progressive could see from its credit check that Ms G had outstanding debts totalling 
£27,061. I think that Progressive shouldve realised that this was a concerning amount of 
debt given Ms Gs monthly income and bearing in mind the greater part of this debt 
(£19,880) was tied up in loans and instalment credit. This was costly borrowing that was 
likely to take Ms G many years to repay.
Progressive saw that although the defaults shown on her credit record were mainly historic 
and Ms G had said they dated back to a time when she was having relationship problems, 
2 of the defaults were within the last 12 months. I've taken into account that Progressive 
was satisfied with Ms Gs explanation about how these defaults arose. But I dont think it 
was reasonable to conclude that this debt wasnt potentially problematic for her. To my 
mind, the indications were that she was still struggling to manage her finances.
The information Progressive gathered also showed that Ms G had been in a short-term 
loan cycle for the last few years, she had some missed payments and some of those 
accounts were in arrears. Progressive could see that she was struggling to stay within the 
limit on her credit card account  her recent track record showed she had been over the 
limit for the previous 11 months. 
I think all this information painted a picture of someone struggling to manage money 
problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Ms G was likely experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
I've taken into account that the purpose of the Progressive loan was partly to consolidate 
other credit  in other words, to pay off other debt in order to help reduce her monthly 
outgoings. 
But after using around 2/3rds of this loan to settle other debt, Ms G was still going to have a 
significant amount of other credit outstanding. Its fair to say the repayment for this new loan was less than the combined repayments she 
had been making on the loans she would clear, and so her monthly outgoings would be 
reduced as a result. But, Ms G was signing up to pay her new Progressive loan for 
60 months. The total amount that Ms G would have to pay back, if loan 1 ran for the full 
term, was going to be £16,476.
Looking at the loan amount and the term over which she had committed to repay it, in real 
terms taking out this loan put Ms G into a worse position overall. 
Progressives loan meant Ms G had to repay expensive credit over the next 5 years  longer 
than its likely she might reasonably have expected loans she would repay using this money 
still to be running. And taking out this loan put her in the position of borrowing high cost 
credit to pay other high cost credit. 
I appreciate that Ms G repaid this loan early  just 6 months or so after she took it out. But 
successfully repaying the loan doesnt mean she managed to do so in a sustainable way. 
Like our adjudicator, I think Progressive could see from the credit checks it carried out that 
Ms Gs outstanding debt and the way she was using credit suggested that she was having 
serious problems managing her money.
Looked at overall, I dont think Progressive had sufficient reason to think this loan would 
improve her position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in her 
overall financial situation  given her outstanding indebtedness overall. 
And based on all the information Progressive had gathered, I dont think it was in a position 
reasonably to say that the loan was likely to be sustainably affordable for Ms G. 
I think Progressive shouldve realised that this loan  and any further lending - wasnt likely 
to be sustainably affordable for Ms G  and so, based on the information it could see, 
Progressive shouldnt have lent to her. 
Loan 2
Progressive carried out similar checks to those it had done when Ms G took out her first 
loan. 
Her employment situation and circumstances were broadly the same. But Progressive saw 
on the credit checks it carried out that Ms G had apparently substantially reduced the 
amount of her overall indebtedness  this had gone down to just under £13,000 with the total 
amount accounted for by loans and instalment credit now a little over £9,000. 
Progressive was required to satisfy itself that Ms G would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner over the lifetime of the loan. But I cant see how it could have been 
reassured about this without, amongst other things, finding out the true explanation for 
Ms Gs apparent reduction in borrowing.    
Looking at this information, and given what Progressive knew about her circumstances, 
I think Progressive shouldve enquired how that reduction in overall debt had been achieved 
as it wasnt possible to explain it by reference only to the information Progressive had 
gathered about Ms Gs financial situation. 
I've carefully listened to the call recordings which have helped me to understand the 
application process Progressive went through with Ms G. I think its fair for me to say that no 
meaningful enquiries seem to have been made to find out about this. So I dont think Progressive could have reasonably satisfied itself that the reduction in reported debt 
necessarily reflected a real improvement in Ms Gs financial situation or (without knowing 
where the money had come from to clear that debt) whether Ms Gs indebtedness had 
actually been reduced. 
Ms G told us that she borrowed a large loan from friend which she used to pay loan 1 and 
clear credit outstanding with other lenders. I dont know what Ms G had agreed in terms of 
repaying that loan. But had Progressive verified this information, as I think it shouldve done, 
it wouldve realised the potential extent to which Ms G would be paying out money was 
significantly more than the figure it relied on for her monthly outgoings  and her overall 
indebtedness hadnt improved in the way her credit file suggested. 
And the apparent reduction in overall debt shown on its credit checks was at odds with other 
information Progressives credit checks showed  - for instance, that Ms G had taken 12 new 
credit accounts in the 6 months since she had paid loan 1. 
Progressives credit check indicated that she had also defaulted on 2 further accounts since 
taking out loan 1. I've taken into account what Progressive has said about the defaults 
shown. But this doesnt affect my overall view because I havent attached any substantial 
weight to this information in coming to my decision.  
Even allowing for the fact that part of this loan was used to clear two other substantial loans, 
to my mind, I dont think Progressive was in a position to say that the debt consolidation it 
had funded with loan 1 hadnt helped Ms G resolve her money management problems. 
There was a question mark over how she had reduced her apparent overall debt  and she 
was demonstrating continuing reliance on taking out new credit. 
I dont think Progressive had any reasonable grounds to be satisfied that loan 2 wouldnt 
lead Ms G into further indebtedness when it had information showing her continued 
dependency on expensive borrowing.
Given what it knew about her financial situation and track record, I dont think that 
Progressive was reasonably able to conclude that Ms G was likely to be able to repay this 
loan in a sustainable manner. 
And thats borne out by the payment problems she soon had keeping up the contractual 
monthly repayments on this loan. As far as I am aware, loan 2 remains outstanding.
For these reasons, Im planning upholding Ms G s complaint that loans 1 and 2 were 
irresponsibly lent.  
did Progressive act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
It looks like Progressive had a number of conversations with Ms G about payment problems 
in December 2018 and January 2019. She was able to settle arrears owing on 28 February 
2019.
In October 2019 Progressive told us Ms G gave an assurance that she would be able to 
maintain her payments. In the event, the payment at the end of that month was unsuccessful 
and the account fell into arrears.
I dont have any more up to date information from Progressive. I understand from what Ms G 
has told us that she is now in a payment plan. 
Progressive confirmed that no additional interest or charges other than contractual interest 
has been applied to the account. I think, broadly speaking, it appears that Progressive has worked with Ms G and shown 
forbearance in the light of the payment problems she has had. 
I've seen nothing to make me think that it responded in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable 
when she approached it to discuss her payment problems. 
So I dont make any additional award against Progressive over and above the redress I've 
set out below. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms G agress with what I've said in my provisional decision.
Progressive hasnt sent me any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible/unaffordable lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms G to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has had to pay interest and charges 
on loans that shouldnt have been provided to her.
If loan 2 is still outstanding, Progressive should try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement with Ms G - bearing in mind the need to treat her positively and sympathetically 
in those discussions.
Progressive should buy back any outstanding debts sold if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. Otherwise, Progressive should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Ms G towards interest, fees and  
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
already refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms G which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Ms G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal loan amount. 
D) If this results in Ms G having made overpayments then those overpayments should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled and 
paid to Ms G, together with the amounts calculated in A and B, before moving to 
step F.E) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Ms G. However if there 
is still an outstanding balance then Progressive should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Ms G. Progressive shouldnt pursue outstanding balances 
made up of principal already written-off.
F) remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Gs credit file in relation to loans 1 
and 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive to deduct tax from this interest. Progressive 
should give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Progressive Money Limited to take the steps set out 
above to put things right for Ms G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman