DRN-1373804
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) failed to 
allocate her payments correctly and provided incorrect advice which led to her accounts 
accruing interest. Mrs D was also unhappy with the length of time Shop Direct took to 
respond to her letter sent in January 2019.
 What happened
In July 2017, Mrs D purchased several items through Shop Direct via the Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) method. At the time, Mrs D already had a separate balance on her credit account.
Mrs D continued to pay the minimum payments each month, thinking they were being paid 
towards the BNPL amount. But, these payments were allocated against the outstanding 
credit amount instead. So, when Mrs D hadnt paid the BNPL amount within the 12-month 
time frame, Shop Direct added the interest.
Mrs D complained about this. She said the payments shed made previously were intended 
to pay the BNPL balance so she didnt think it was fair that the interest had been added. She 
also complained that she felt shed been told by Shop Direct to only pay the minimum 
amounts on a call in September 2018, which again had led to more interest being accrued. 
She was unhappy with the length of time Shop Direct took to respond to her concerns.
Shop Direct responding explaining that their terms and conditions stated any payments 
intended to be made against the BNPL amount needed to be marked as such. As the 
payments werent directed to the BNPL balance, they thought theyd acted fairly when 
adding the interest. That being said, they refunded the BNPL interest from when the 
payments Mrs D made had paid off the cash price. They also offered a £30 payment to 
recognise the delay in responding to her complaint in full. Mrs D remained unhappy so 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Shop Direct had 
made it clear in the terms and conditions of the agreement and on Mrs Ds monthly 
statements that any payment intended for the BNPL balance would need to be specifically 
allocated. As Mrs D hadnt done this, she thought Shop Direct acted fairly. She also didnt 
think Shop Direct had mis-advised Mrs D when speaking to her over the phone. She agreed 
Shop Direct hadnt responded to her letter in January within a reasonable timeframe but 
thought the £30 offer Shop Direct made was fair to recognise this. Mrs D didnt agree with 
this view so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
I think its clear that Mrs D has been left confused about her Shop Direct account and how 
the payments for the separate balances have been allocated. I dont doubt that this has been a stressful situation for her. But Ive considered whether I think this confusion has been 
caused by the failures of Shop Direct. And I dont think they have in this instance. 
Ive considered the statements provided by Mrs D and Shop Direct at length. Having done 
so, I think its important for me to explain the information the statements provide and in what 
format. 
The statements include the BNPL balance (including the interest that may be charged) as 
well as any other standard purchases and charges in the total amount. But, it explains that 
the minimum payment is calculated based on the balance on the credit account only. Until 
the purchases made by the BNPL method exceed the interest free time period, they arent 
included on the credit account. Only the standard purchases are included on the credit 
account. So, when Mrs D was meeting the monthly minimum payment, this was allocated to 
the outstanding credit account rather than the BNPL balance.
This explains why the statements between April and June 2018 say Your payment request 
is calculated on a balance of £0.00 as there was no balance on the credit account due to 
the payments Mrs D had made. But, the total amount owed still ranged between £4,800 - 
£5,300 as this took into account the outstanding BNPL balances. 
I dont doubt that the payments Mrs D were intended to pay the BNPL balance. But, Ive 
seen the terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs D held which explain clearly that any 
payments intended to pay the BNPL would need to be specifically allocated as such. And 
Mrs D has explained that she didnt do so. The statements Mrs D received also explain that 
if she didnt pay the balance off in full, any payments she made would be allocated in a 
specific order. So, Id expect Mrs D to ensure she understood what order that would be to 
make sure she was paying the balance she intended.
Also, Mrs D would still have a requirement to pay the minimum balance created from the 
credit account, as well as any amount she wanted to pay to BNPL balance. So, by only 
paying the minimum monthly amount, this wouldnt have been possible. Despite this, Ive 
seen Shop Direct adjusted Mrs Ds account to remove the interest charged for the BNPL 
purchases due to be paid in July 2018. For these reasons, I dont think its fair for me to 
decide that Shop Direct have acted unfairly by not directing the payments to pay the BNPL 
balance as they wouldnt have known to do so.
Ive also listened to the call Mrs Ds daughter, acting as Mrs Ds representative, held with 
Shop Direct in September 2018. In this call, I agree that Shop Direct advised Mrs D to pay 
the minimum payment that day to avoid late payment charges. But, they advised Mrs D to do 
so while they adjusted her account to remove the charges for the BNPL purchases due to be 
paid in July 2018. They did so three days later and that was reflected on Mrs Ds statement 
dated 22 September 2018. So, I dont think the advice Shop Direct provided Mrs Ds 
daughter on this call was misleading.
Mrs D had further BNPL balances that were due to be paid in November and December 
2018 as well as May and June 2019 for substantial amounts. I think Shop Direct made these 
reasonably clear on the statements Mrs D received. So, Id expect Mrs D and her daughter 
to be aware at this point that making minimum payments wouldnt clear the outstanding 
balances and that interest would be charged if they werent paid in full by the date set. 
Unfortunately, the payments Mrs D made didnt repay the BNPL later balances which has 
led to the interest being applied and her monthly minimum payments increasing, as the 
balances then transferred onto the credit account. I can understand the stress this has 
caused Mrs D. But I dont think this has resulted from Shop Direct acting unfairly or 
unreasonably. So, I dont think they need to do anything further to address this.It isnt in dispute that Shop Direct took longer than wed expect to respond to Mrs Ds 
complaint. But this delay didnt impact Mrs Ds ability to manage her account and make the 
necessary payments that were required. So, I think the £30 Shop Direct offered is fair and 
recognises the frustration shed have felt whilst waiting for a reply.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman