DRN-3670983
The complaint
Ms and Mr J have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in December 1992 (with the policy going live in 
February 1993).
What happened
Ms and Mr J took the policy out at the same time as arranging the mortgage. Although it was 
a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Ms J for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms and Mr J disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms and Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms and Mr J say they were told they had to take out PPI. In effect thats true in relation to the 
particular mortgage product they arranged. Because they took out a mortgage that had a 
discounted fixed rate for two years and a condition of the mortgage was that they agreed to 
also take out PPI. Nationwide were entitled to put conditions on the mortgage, as long as it 
made those conditions clear to borrowers. If Ms and Mr J hadnt wanted PPI they could have 
chosen a different mortgage product from Nationwide, which likely had a higher interest rate, 
or they could have gone to a different lender. 
On balance, it seems to me that Ms and Mr J were probably attracted by the fixed rate 
mortgage offer and therefore decided to agree to buy PPI as part of the package, knowing 
that other options were available.
This was a non-advised sale, meaning that Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the policy 
was suitable for the couple. However, it did need to provide Ms and Mr J with sufficient 
information for them to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy 
was right for them.
I consider that Nationwide must have provided some basic information about the PPI  that it 
covered the mortgage payments if someone was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy was taken out just in Ms Js name. This suggests that they knew 
enough about the policy to know that it probably wasnt entirely suitable for Mr J as he was 
self-employed. 
Ms J has said that she had good sick pay from her employer. However, the policy would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Ms J would have 
received full pay for. Ms J has also said that they had savings. However, having the policy 
would have allowed them to retain any savings or use them to cover any other outgoings at 
what would have been a difficult time.
Ms J says she wasnt given any information about being able to claim even if she was 
receiving sick pay from her employer. But Nationwide didnt provide any information 
suggesting that she wouldnt be able to claim in addition to sick pay and this seems to have 
been an assumption that Ms J made. She could have made an enquiry to the insurer if she 
was unsure. Ms J says she would have made a claim in 1993 when she off work for 3-4 
months. However, the policy had a 90 day waiting period before any claims could be made, 
so perhaps that is the reason why Ms J didnt make a claim in 1993.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, especially about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms J wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example, she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy. As I think that Ms and Mr J had an interest in the policy (if 
only to secure the discounted fixed rate mortgage deal), Im not persuaded that further 
information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are no worse off as a 
result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Nationwide 
needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Ms and Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman