DRN-3534165
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
repeatedly declined transaction from his credit card account due to their fraud checks.
What happened
Mr H has held a credit card account with Barclaycard for many years. Cards were issued on 
the account to Mr H and to another party.
During September and October 2020, Mr H and the other party had a number of transactions 
declined by Barclaycard for purchases theyd attempted using their cards. They found these 
situations frustrating and inconvenient resulting in time spent contacting Barclaycard to 
confirm the authenticity of the transactions.
On each occasion, Barclaycard attempted to contact Mr H by SMS text message, email, 
telephone or by letter. Mr Hs responses to SMS text message were not received by 
Barclaycard leading to further delays. Mr H also experienced long delays when trying to call 
Barclaycard.
Unhappy with his experience, Mr H complained to Barclaycard. He wanted them to 
apologise for the problems and delays experienced. He also wanted them to provide an 
explanation of why transactions were declined and compensate him financially for the 
disruption hed experienced. 
Barclaycard said the transactions were identified and declined for a fraud check by their 
internal fraud prevention systems. They said this was in line with their internal processes and 
didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They also checked their systems to try to establish 
why SMS text responses from Mr H werent received. They werent able to identify any 
problems. So, they suggested Mr H contact his mobile network provider to check whether 
there were any blocks in place.
Barclaycard apologised for the delays experienced by Mr H when trying to call them. They 
said theyd experienced higher call volumes during the global pandemic and staffing levels 
had been impacted. But they said that as this was out of their control, they didnt think they 
could be held responsible.
Mr H wasnt happy with Barclaycards response to his complaint. So, he referred matters to 
this service. Our investigator considered all the information available relating to Mr Hs 
complaint. They didnt agree Barclaycard had made a mistake or done anything wrong.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators findings. He thought Barclaycard should provide 
specific details about why transactions were flagged as potentially fraudulent. He said 
Barclaycards actions meant he had spent a lot of time trying to resolve matters which he 
believes he should be compensated for.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Mr 
Hs complaint here. 
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or 
impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Hs experience with them. When considering whats fair and 
reasonable, Im required to consider; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
Barclaycard have shown that the various transactions from Mr Hs account were flagged by 
their fraud prevention systems. This meant they needed to verify their authenticity with Mr H 
before they were approved. This is common practice within the financial services sector. Its 
designed to protect Mr H, as a consumer, and Barclaycard from potential losses as a result 
of possible fraudulent activity. And while I appreciate this can result in some inconvenience 
for Mr H, I cant reasonably say Barclaycard were wrong to follow their process here.
Mr H has requested specific details of why each transaction was declined for verification. It 
wouldnt be appropriate for Barclaycard to provide those specifics as it could adversely 
impact the integrity of their checks, leaving them open to exploitation. So, I dont believe 
Barclaycard did anything wrong by not providing that information.
I appreciate Mr H was inconvenienced by delays in responding to his calls to Barclaycard. 
These appear to have been made during a period impacted by the global pandemic. 
Barclaycard have apologised, but dont agree this was something they were able to control. 
Im aware many businesses were heavily impacted during that time. And I cant reasonably 
hold Barclaycard responsible for the impact the pandemic had on their day to day 
operations.
I also havent found anything to suggest Barclaycard had problems with their own systems 
which wouldve led to SMS text responses not being received from Mr H. And given the 
variables and different parties that might impact this, I cant reasonably conclude 
Barclaycard were ultimately responsible.
For me to suggest compensation, any distress or inconvenience has to be caused by a 
mistake or unfairness by Barclaycard. We're all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day 
lives  and its not unusual to experience a certain level of frustration and minor annoyance 
when dealing with financial businesses. But for me to make an award Id need to see that the 
impact of a business's mistake was more than what someone would expect to experience in 
everyday life. 
I realise Mr H will be disappointed, but I think Barclaycards actions were, at all times, 
reasonable. They followed their own internal processes to ensure both they and Mr H were 
protected from any possible fraudulent intent. So, while Mr H might disagree, I havent found 
anything to suggest theyd made a mistake or error in what they did here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman