DRN-4363529
The complaint
Ms K complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited (Utmost) mis-sold her a Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan to top up her pension benefits but 
failed to make her aware of the in-house alternative and she suffered losses as a 
consequence.  
Ms K is represented by her financial adviser, but I will just refer to her except where 
necessary.
What happened
Ms K was a member of the University Superannuation Scheme (USS), joining this in 1982. 
She was advised to take out a FSAVC policy (the plan) by Equitable Life (now Utmost) in 
November 1991. She made contributions until 2000, increasing these on a regular basis. Ms 
K retired in 2010 at age 60 and took benefits from the plan in 2013. She says when the 
advice was given, Equitable Life didnt make her aware of the in-house alternatives offered 
by the USS as required under the financial regulations in place at the time. And that this may 
have caused her losses.
With the help of her financial adviser Ms K complained to Utmost.  It said it thought the 
complaint had been made too late and it didnt need to consider it. Ms K referred her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator thought we could consider the complaint and 
Utmost agreed. 
Our investigator then looked into the complaint, and she decided to uphold it.
She said the financial regulations at the time required that advisers act with due care and 
skill and should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they 
may have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question.
She said occupational schemes offered in-house alternatives that might offer advantages 
over FSAVCs. Typically, these were an AVC arrangement, which might benefit from 
subsidised costs, or the option to purchase added years of service in the pension scheme, 
which offered guaranteed benefits. She said whilst the adviser couldnt have offered advice 
on these alternatives, Ms Ks attention should have been drawn to them. And as there was 
no evidence it had been, Utmost hadnt met its regulatory obligations. 
Our investigator said considering the circumstances at the time, if Ms K had been told about 
alternatives, she was likely to have preferred AVCs over added years. In part because 
added years were seen as being relatively expensive and inflexible compared to AVCs. She 
said as the in-house AVC was likely to have lower charges than the FSAVC and therefore be 
better value, Ms K would have opted for the in-house AVC. She said Utmost should 
undertake calculations to establish whether Ms K had suffered losses as a consequence.
Ms K didnt agree. She said she would have purchased added years. Because, as a 
cautious investor with no other risk-based investments, the guaranteed benefits provided by 
added years would have been a natural choice for her. She said based on the costs from a 
similar pension scheme, added years were affordable as shed paid significant and 
increasing contributions to the FSAVC plan. 
Utmost also disagreed. It said the USS had now confirmed that it didnt offer an in-house 
AVC until 1993, so Ms K couldnt have joined it when the advice was given. It said as our 
investigator had said Ms K would have favoured AVCs over added years, it followed that the 
advice to take out the FSAVC had been suitable.
Our investigator said Utmost hadnt met its obligations at the time as Ms K should have been 
made aware of the alternative even if this was only added years. She said the cost of one 
added year for the similar Teachers Pension Scheme was 1.08% of salary per year to 
retirement age. And this was affordable given the contributions paid to the FSAVC. Our 
investigator said this affordability, with the likelihood of her remaining in the same 
occupation, the lack of risk and the superior tax-free cash position would have led Ms K to 
opt for added years. Our investigator said to put Ms K back in the position she should be in, 
Utmost should undertake a loss calculation on an added years basis in line with the 
regulators FSAVC review guidance and pay any compensation due. 
Utmost didnt agree. It asked that specific costs for added years in the USS be obtained. It 
said as Ms K had stopped paying contributions to the FSAVC at age 50 and it wasnt aware 
shed made additional pension provision since, which indicated she didnt have the 
commitment required for added years. 
The USS confirmed added years costs at the time would have been 0.77% of Ms Ks salary 
for one added year. Ms K confirmed shed stopped paying contributions as she became 
concerned about Equitable Lifes financial position in 2000. And after this shed paid other 
pension contributions based on separate earnings. Our investigator said the lower-than-
expected cost of added years with the USS made these more affordable still. And that Ms K 
had stopped contributions to the FSAVC for a valid reason. And the subsequent additional 
pension saving made, showed she would have been committed to added years. Our 
investigator said Utmost should undertake a loss calculation on an added years basis and 
pay Ms K £300 for the distress and inconvenience that had been caused.
Utmost said if the payment of redress was deemed appropriate, a £300 payment for distress 
and inconvenience wasnt fair because Ms K had only become aware of a possible problem 
when she spoke to her financial adviser. 
As Utmost doesnt agree, it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 31 August 2023, I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not planning to uphold the complaint, because I dont think its likely Ms K has suffered a loss as 
consequence of any omission by Utmost. I know my decision will disappoint Ms K, so Ill 
explain why I have come to it.
I need to be fair to both Ms K and Utmost in coming to my decision. It cant demonstrate it 
told her about in-house alternatives to the FSAVC as it needed to do at the time. If it didnt, 
this may have disadvantaged her and possibly led to a financial loss. But for me to decide 
whats fair it is necessary for me to consider what I think Ms K would have done if shed 
been made aware there were in-house alternatives. Our investigator felt that Ms K would 
have opted for added years but having carefully considered all the evidence and factors at 
the time of the advice I dont think it is reasonable to conclude that. 
As the events complained about took place many years ago there is very little 
contemporaneous evidence about what happened. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances at the time the advice was given. Because 
assessments made now about what someone may have done many years ago are inevitably 
influenced by hindsight. 
Various factors would have influenced the decision over the best way to make additional 
pension savings on top of someones occupational scheme. From around 1989 there was 
usually a direct alternative to a FSAVC in the form of an in-house AVC offered by the 
occupational scheme. Similar to FSAVCs these often benefited from lower costs and 
charges, broadly making the in-house AVC the logical choice. Unless there were other 
factors, important to the individual, that made the FSAVC option more attractive. That isnt 
the case here as the USS didnt introduce an in-house AVC until 1993, meaning the only 
alternative was added years, which operate on a different basis. 
I think the decision between the FSAVC and added years would have been finely balanced, 
and its possible to make arguments in favour of both options. That is particularly the case 
with the benefit of hindsight. As I think its fair to say that greater value is now placed on final 
salary pension benefits than was the case previously, in part because financial 
circumstances have changed significantly over the last 30 years or so. 
Added years provided guaranteed benefits linked to future earnings, so risk adverse 
investors and those in secure occupations they might expect to remain in until retirement 
might favour added years. They also allowed for the payment of tax-free cash, which at the 
time, AVCs didnt. I accept these factors might have been attractive to Ms K. But at the 
same time added years were generally considered to be an expensive and inflexible option 
that required an ongoing commitment until the normal retirement age of the pension scheme. 
With AVCs (including FSAVCs) offering more flexibility to stop or reduce contributions if 
circumstances changed. 
Lack of affordability was often an issue with added years, but that doesnt appear relevant 
here. Instead, it seems that Ms K wouldnt have been able to contribute as much towards 
added years as she did to the FSAVC. She had around 33 years potential service to normal 
retirement age in the USS, so could have funded around seven added years. Which would 
have provided the maximum allowable pension benefits from the scheme. 
But, when compared to the FSAVC option, added years would have appeared relatively 
expensive. With the illustrations provided by Equitable Life forecasting a higher level of 
retirement benefit for the same level of contribution. Thats because at the time AVC 
illustrations used future growth rates as high as 13% per annum, which is now seen as a 
very high rate of return. In comparison the cost of added years was generally calculated in a conservative manner to reduce the possibility of any liability falling back on the employer or 
pension scheme itself. 
Its also important to note that whilst added years were guaranteed the actual amount of 
benefit payable was dependent on what Ms Ks final salary would be at retirement at age 65. 
So, some estimate of this would be required. And comparison would show quite substantial 
annual increases in salary would be required to match the projected benefits under the 
FSAVC from the same level of contribution. 
Ms K chose to pay close to the maximum contribution she was allowed to under tax rules at 
the time and maintained this going forward as her earnings increased. As noted, these 
contributions exceeded the cost of buying added years. It usually wasnt possible to 
purchase extra added years to make up for benefits that would be lost due to having fewer 
years of service in the event of any early retirement. But this was possible through AVCs. 
And, if early retirement was contemplated further consideration would need to be given to 
the actuarial reduction likely to be made to the added years benefits. As these would only 
have been partially funded, given the commitment to maintain contributions to normal 
retirement age. Ms K did retire early, and the FSAVC option had allowed additional 
contributions to be paid. 
So, at the time, compared to added years, AVCs were seen as a more flexible option with 
the potential to provide greater benefits from the same contribution, which strongly 
influenced many peoples choice. The FSAVC route also allowed more in contributions to be 
paid than to added years. There was investment risk. But the with profits fund used was then 
seen as a relatively low risk option which could still generate good returns and was 
commonly recommended to risk adverse investors. 
So, Ms Ks decision wouldnt have been clear cut and required relatively complex analysis to 
be undertaken. And Utmost wasnt required to carry out any comparison or advise in favour 
of one option over the other. That was for Ms K to decide. I can see that she was 
subsequently quite engaged with the administration of the FSAVC over a number of years. 
And in her decision to stop contributions due to Equitable Lifes well known financial 
problems in 2000. 
I think this indicates that Ms K was or became reasonably well informed about pension 
matters. And when she did stop contributions to the plan, I think its likely she considered her 
overall pension planning at this point. That would have included the option to take a FSAVC 
out with another company or the in-house alternatives. But when Ms K did make additional 
pension savings, she didnt choose the guaranteed option of added years. Instead, she 
preferred to pay contributions against other earnings into a personal pension plan, broadly 
offering the same type of benefits as the AVC option. 
Taking everything together with the FSAVC option seemingly offering more potential benefits 
than added years for the same cost, I think it is more likely than not that had Ms K 
considered the alternative available she would have still chosen to proceed with the FSAVC 
proposed by Utmost at the time. That means I dont think she has suffered a loss as a result 
of taking out the FSAVC and it wouldnt be fair to tell Utmost to undertake loss redress 
calculations. 
Ive also considered whether Ms K has suffered distress and inconvenience over what has 
happened. I think it would have caused her some concern to be told there might be a 
problem. But she wasnt aware of any potential concern until many years after she had taken 
benefits from the FSAVC and didnt need to change her retirement plans because of it. She 
was also in receipt of professional guidance about the issue and knew at an early stage her complaint could be referred to our service for an independent decision, limiting any 
subsequent distress. So, as I dont think Ms K would have decided differently in 1991 it 
wouldnt be fair to now make an award for compensation. 
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further evidence or points they wished to 
make.
Response to provisional decision
Utmost said it had nothing to add.
Ms K provided a detailed response through her financial adviser:
1. Ms K confirmed she hadnt actually joined the USS until 1988, having worked for The 
Open University between 1982 and then, which didnt confer membership of the 
USS. This meant her potential and actual service was shorter than previously 
considered.
2. Meaning there was more scope to purchase added years with there being around 18 
rather than 7 years shortfall in potential service in the USS. And this larger shortfall 
would have meant Ms K would want to secure the guaranteed benefits offered by 
added years.
3. The choice of a with profits investment suggests a cautious person but wasnt 
strongly indicative either way. But the lack of flexibility typical of with profits, 
undermined any likely flexibility offered by FSAVCs over added years. And that 
potential flexibility wasnt a key consideration for Ms K at the time. 
4. That on many counts added years compared very favourably given the benefit 
profile allowing tax free cash and an index linked pension, which when compared to 
the higher, but non-increasing pension typically illustrated on a FSAVC projection, 
would seem more attractive. Additionally added years offered better dependent 
benefits for Ms Ks children and in the event of ill health requiring her to retire early.  
5. And taken together even if the FSAVC illustration appeared to quote a higher 
pension when examined in detail added years were a better all-round package.
6. It wasnt clear that Ms K would have realised the FSAVC was quoting a higher 
pension, as it is very hard to compare the two arrangements as benefits werent 
projected in the same way, and any decision was highly subjective particularly for a 
lay person. And she wouldnt have been able to compare projected benefits in any 
useful or reliable way. 
7. Ms K wasnt thinking of early retirement when the FSAVC was sold.
8. When Ms K stopped contributions to the FSAVC in 2000, she was already making 
contributions to a personal pension plan which she continued. 
9. It was accepted that the evidence was circumstantial but factors such as the 
stability of her career and that her contribution was sufficient to buy a substantial 
number of added years favoured the guaranteed added year option. And if there was 
to be benefit of the doubt that should be given to the recipient of non-compliant 
advice not Utmost.
10. In respect of the £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience suggested by 
our investigator, but not considered reasonable by me. Ms K felt this had been 
largely proposed due to the long delays in Utmost responding to her complaint and 
the duress that this has caused. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Ms Ks adviser makes good points in their response to my provisional decision. Ive taken all 
these into consideration. The points made acknowledge the difficulty in assessing what 
someone may have done many years ago in a very different financial environment than 
today.
There are, as noted in my provisional decision, a number of factors which suggest Ms K 
might have favoured added years. Like her being in a stable profession which she was likely 
to remain in until retirement, the potential for tax-free cash and possibly dependents 
pensions. But Ms K and her adviser also identify one of the key difficulties she faced even if 
the Equitable Life adviser had directed her to check about in-house options. 
Which was the complexity of the whole situation and the difficulty in making comparisons at 
the time. As Ms K adviser has said he doubts she would realistically have been in a position 
to compare projected benefits in any useful or reliable way. The FSAVC would have 
seemed the least complex choice of those available.
And not only was Equitable Life not required to advise her on the distinctions and relative 
pros and cons it wasnt actually authorised to do so. Had Ms K taken independent financial 
advice that might have been different, but Equitable Life wasnt obliged to suggest she did 
that. Even if she had the analysis would be highly subjective and based on perceptions at 
the time. Without the benefit of hindsight over investment returns and annuity rates being 
much lower than expected, making salary linked benefits increasingly valuable as a result. 
It has been confirmed Ms K didnt join the USS scheme until 1988, this was much closer to 
the time she did take out the FSAVC. Its likely that she was given information about the 
added years option when she joined the scheme. That had probably slipped her mind a few 
years later. Its a dry subject and the information might have been a relatively small section 
in a much larger pack of documents. 
But even if she had looked at this information and sought further details about added years 
quite a complex analysis would be required to get to the bottom of which was the likely better 
choice. The headline numbers from the FSAVC probably looked superior. Offering, perhaps 
superficially, more forecast benefit for each pound invested. With the potential of additional 
benefits if returns were good. For many people that was the deciding factor at the time. 
The copy illustrations provided by Utmost do appear to have reflected a level than an 
increasing annuity which would flatter the forecasted pension in a comparison to added 
years. Although most pension providers could illustrate an increasing pension as well. But 
these were only forecasts, just like any information on added years would have been, which 
meant some analysis of likely future earnings was required to make a comparison between 
the options. The final salary link has of course proved highly valuable, but I think its fair to 
say the mainstream perception at the time was that this was less important. Even though 
parts of the actuarial profession were already forecasting the demise of final salary pensions 
and reduction in the benefits they would provide, something the USS hasnt been immune 
from itself.
Ms K recollections havent been doubted here, but it is only fair to note that no testimony is 
available from the Equitable Life adviser himself. And at the time there was no requirement 
for records to be kept about what had or hadnt been said about alternative options. Nor was 
there a requirement for any of the recommendations to be put in writing. These requirements 
changed over time and FSAVC providers increasingly referred customers to brochures and 
marketing materials specifically referring to alternative options, with tick boxes on 
applications to confirm theyd been made aware.  Taking everything together I still think it was more likely than not that Ms K would have still 
opted for the FSAVC had she been told that alternatives were available. So, whilst there may 
have been an error at the time in not mentioning this, I dont think the outcome would have 
been different. That means I cant uphold this complaint as I dont think Ms K has suffered a 
loss as a result of any omission by Utmost. 
I understand that this is all somewhat unsatisfactory for Ms K. As is my view that a 
compensation payment for distress and inconvenience isnt fair. Thats because if I dont 
think a complaint should be upheld it is unreasonable to award compensation for 
inconvenience. Utmost did take a long time to consider this complaint, too long in my view, 
and that might well have caused distress. But our service doesnt have the power to consider 
complaints about how complaints have been handled, as this isnt a regulated activity. So, 
unfortunately, I cant award compensation for this aspect either.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman