DRN-3185730
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with their cancellation 
and refund request in relation to two annual-multi trip travel insurance policies.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 23 April 2022  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought Great Lakes had acted reasonably and 
fairly in how it deal with Mrs and Mr Ms claim. And I outlined the reasons why I wasnt 
minded to uphold their complaint. I said:
What happened
On 22 February 2020, Mrs and Mr M purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, 
provided by Great Lakes. The policy covered trips taken worldwide and commenced on the 
date it was purchased. The policy was due to end on 21 February 2021. 
Mrs and Mr Ms premium (excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) was £1101.73 for the 
standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a 
number of declared medical conditions. They received a discount of £72.36 at the time they 
purchased their policy. In total, Mrs and Mr M paid £1249.72 for their policy including IPT.
On 23 June 2020, Mrs and Mr M contacted Great Lakes to explain that they hadnt been 
able to travel due to the impact of the pandemic. They wanted to discuss their options for 
cancelling the policy. 
Great Lakes informed Mrs and Mr M that a refund couldnt be provided as their cooling off 
period had expired. And it said that, under the terms of their policy, no refund was due. But it 
said it could offer them a pro-rata credit voucher to the value of £809.02. 
Great Lakes informed Mrs and Mr M that the credit voucher could be used immediately 
towards a new policy of 15 months of cover for the price of 12 or to purchase a deferred 
renewal policy. 
Mrs and Mr M used Great Lakes pro-rata credit voucher to set up a deferred annual multi 
trip insurance policy. This was due to commence on 23 June 2021 and end on 22 June 
2022. The policy offered worldwide cover and included two additional cover options  these 
being connecting flight cover and cruise plus cover. 
In total Mrs and Mr M paid £1171.02 for their deferred renewal policy. As the refund voucher 
that Great Lakes had issued to Mrs and Mr M didnt cover the cost of the policy in full, they 
made a cash payment towards the balance of the premium.
On 7 January 2021, Mrs and Mr M contacted Great Lakes to request the cancellation of their 
second policy due to a further lockdown and period of travel uncertainty. Cover under this 
second travel insurance policy hadnt yet started at the time Mrs and Mr M requested its 
cancellation. So, they requested a full premium refund.
In response to Mrs and Mr Ms refund request, Great Lakes informed them that it couldnt 
offer a cash settlement of the full premium for the deferred renewal policy. It said this was 
because part of the premium had been paid in cash with the remainder being paid using the 
credit voucher that Mrs and Mr M had received following the cancellation of their previous 
policy. Great Lakes offered Mrs and Mr M a credit voucher for the full policy premium but 
they declined this offer and complained.
When Great Lakes responded to Mrs and Mr Ms complaint, it explained that it was willing to 
refund the premium in full using the payment methods that had been used. So, it said it 
could send Mrs and Mr M a voucher for £809.02 and issue a cash refund for £962.
Being disatisfied with Great Lakes refund offer, Mrs and Mr M referred their complaint to our 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators, who acknowledged the unique 
and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint because they thought the offer 
Great Lakes had made to issue a pro-rata credit voucher refund following the cancellation of 
Mrs and Mr Ms initial policy was fair and reasonable. And they didnt think Great Lakes had 
made an error in offering to refund the deferred renewal policy using the same payment 
method, with the balance being refunded in cash. They therefore thought Great Lakes offer 
of resolving this complaint was fair and reasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mrs and Mr M didnt 
agree and requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide 
what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
As this complaint involves the way in which Great Lakes has dealt with a cancellation and 
request in respect of two different policies it may make matters clearer if I deal with each 
policy separately.
Was the way in which Mrs and Mr Ms cancellation and refund request for insurance policy 1 
dealt with fairly and reasonably by Great Lakes?
In relation to cancellation rights, the terms and conditions of this policy state: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded if you have activated cover, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to 
cover your medical conditions. 
In this case, Mrs and Mr Ms cooling-off period ended on 7 March 2020 as this was 14 days 
after the policy validation certificate and documentation was issued by Great Lakes. But Mrs 
and Mr M didnt contact Great Lakes to request cancellation of their policy until 23 June 
2020. This was substantially outside the cooling off period. 
Because Mrs and Mr Ms policy wasnt cancelled within the cooling off period there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. 
The contract of insurance outlines in clear and unambiguous language that Great Lakes 
doesnt have to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has 
ended. 
Based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Mrs and Mr M purchased, Im 
satisfied they arent entitled to a refund of their policy premiums. I should add that its a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
While Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract, it didnt make it impossible for Mrs and Mr M s contract 
with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 22 February 2020.
Mrs and Mr M were insured from 22 February 2020 for travelling on any number of trips 
within Europe which they may have taken until the policy expired. Theyve said they didnt 
have the opportunity of travelling due to the pandemic. But, because of the way annual multi-
trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a 
policyholder has taken since their policy was incepted.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs and Mr M for cancellation of any holidays which 
they may have had booked and were due to take from 22 February 2020. So, they would 
have been covered if they had had to cancel any number of holidays because of any listed 
events insured under the policy including, for example, them falling ill with a declared pre-
existing medical condition.
Having said that, I do understand that the pandemic may have prevented Mrs and Mr M from 
travelling as theyd have liked or intended and that this was beyond their control. Their policy 
refers to a refund being discretionary outside the cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are 
specific to the individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They 
dont extend to cancellation because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from 
industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Ms contract because of the 
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs and Mr M contacted Great Lakes on 
23 June 2020 to cancel their policy and request a premium refund. By this time, there was 
244 days left to run on the policy before it expired. 
After Mrs and Mr M cancelled their insurance policy, Great Lakes wasnt bearing any risk 
under the insurance policy. So, it no longer carried any risk of a successful claim being 
made. I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Great Lakes 
to offer a refund to Mrs and Mr M that recognises the period of unused cover. Great Lakes has provided evidence showing that if it offered Mrs and Mr M a pro rata credit 
voucher refund of the premium paid that reflected the length of time it was no longer 
covering any risk under their first travel insurance policy. Ive checked the calculation Great 
Lakes provided our service and Im satisfied that in calculating the pro rata refund offered to 
Mrs and Mr M it has used the policy cancellation date as the starting point for any refund 
calculation. In doing so, Great Lakes has recognised that it was no longer at risk of paying a 
claim from the date the policy was cancelled. Im therefore satisfied that the refund 
calculation of £809.02 is fair in the overall circumstances of the complaint.  
Great Lakes offered to make this payment by pro-rata credit voucher. Its said any voucher is 
valid for use within 36 months. I think this is a fair resolution to this complaint because I think 
the validity period provides a reasonable period within which Mrs and Mr M could use it 
towards future travel insurance policies they may wish to take out. And, in fact, Mrs and Mr 
M did use the voucher. 
Mrs and Mr M have told our investigator that theyd have preferred a pro-rata monetary 
refund as an alternative to a credit voucher. I can understand why a cash settlement may be 
preferable. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that their health has deteriorated to 
the point that it might preclude future travel. And I can see they were prepared to travel in 
2020 with the health conditions they declared to Great Lakes.
Based on the available evidence, there arent any exceptional circumstances that persuade 
me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund. And, in offering a credit voucher 
when it wasnt obliged to, Great Lakes has departed from industry rules and the terms of its 
policy to the benefit of Mrs and Mr M because of the unanticipated and unforeseen events 
surrounding the global Covid-19 pandemic. I therefore think its offer of a refund by way of a 
voucher for their first travel insurance policy was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Was the way in which Mrs and Mr Ms cancellation and refund request for insurance policy 2 
dealt with by Great Lakes fair and reasonable?
The terms and conditions that apply to this travel insurance policy state that no cover is 
provided under the policy until cover has been activated.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, while the policy was purchased on 23 June 
2020, it was due to commence on 23 June 2021 and end on 22 June 2022. It is not in 
dispute that Mrs and Mr M never had activated cover under this policy.
In relation to cancellation rights, the terms and conditions of this policy state: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period and where you 
have not activated cover, you will receive a refund of premium less any fees and charges. 
No premium will be refunded if you have activated cover, however discretion may be 
exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a bereavement or a change to the policy 
resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions. 
Here, Mrs and Mr M didnt cancel their deferred renewal policy until 7 January 2021, which 
was substantially outside the cooling off period. While they arent entitled to a refund of the 
premium under either the terms and conditions of their policy or under ICOBS, Im persuaded it was fair a reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a full refund as cover under the 
second policy hadnt started by the time it was cancelled. 
Great Lakes has offered to refund Mrs and Mr M for the second policy in the manner in 
which the policy was paid for  partly by voucher and partly in cash. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, and Ive already explained above why I think it wasnt 
unfair for Great Lakes to offer a voucher as a partial refund for the first policy. 
To resolve this complaint, Im minded to direct Great Lakes to issue a pro-rata credit voucher 
to Mrs and Mr M in the sum of £809.02. If the cash refund of £962 hasnt yet been paid to 
Mrs and Mr M this should be made by Great Lakes. Im not minded to direct Great Lakes to 
take any other action and therefore Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Great Lakes responded confirming it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add. 
When Mrs and Mr M responded, they said they were displeased with my provisional 
decision. They said they didnt recall Great Lakes informing them, during their telephone 
discussion on 23 June 2020, that the pro-rata credit voucher could be used immediately 
towards the cost of a either a new policy or a deferred renewal policy. They said this wasnt 
their understanding of the options theyd been offered during the conversation they had with 
Great Lakes on that date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already mentioned, Mrs and Mr M have questioned the accuracy of the comments 
made regarding the voucher refund options they were given during the conversation they 
had with Great Lakes on 23 June 2020. Theyve said what I said in my provisional decision 
doesnt align with their recollection.
As this discussion was almost two years ago, I can appreciate why Mrs and Mr Ms 
recollection may be different to Great Lakes account of that conversation. But Ill explain 
why Ive seen enough evidence to persuade me that the choices that were offered by Great 
Lakes were as stated in my provisional decision. 
Ive seen business records that persuade me that Mrs and Mr M were informed they could 
use their credit voucher towards the cost of either a new policy or a deferred renewal policy. 
They chose to use their credit voucher to purchase a deferred renewal policy in accordance 
with one of the options Great Lakes said it offered them. And I can also see that Great 
Lakes final response to Mrs and Mr Ms complaint outlined the options I referred to in my 
provisional decision. So, overall, Im satisfied that the conversation has been accurately 
recorded. 
I am grateful to Mrs and Mr M for their comments and response to my provisional decision. 
However, nothing theyve said has persuaded me to depart from the provisional findings I 
reached previously. I remain satisfied that Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably in 
offering to resolve Mrs and Mr Ms complaint. I can see that since I issued my provisional decision Great Lakes has taken steps to issue a 
cash refund and credit voucher to Mrs and Mr M in line with the resolution I indicated I would 
be minded to reach in my provisional decision. Im therefore not going to direct it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman