DRN-3629720
The complaint
Ms F complains Santander UK Plc didnt make reasonable adjustments when it requested 
information from her. Ms F also complains Santander UK Plc didnt explain why it needed 
the information in question and that the information was unnecessary too.
What happened
Ms F has a current account with Santander and has done so for approximately eight years. 
She says shes always used the same branch and that the branch staff know her well even 
though she goes there very rarely now. Ms F has autism, a disability and mobility problems 
and isnt good with technology.
In April 2021, Ms F went to branch to withdraw £2,000 in cash having checked in advance 
that shed be able to do so. Ms F says Santander wouldnt let her withdraw the cash when 
she got to branch. Santander says that it was worried Ms F was being scammed given the 
explanation she gave in branch and thats why it wouldnt let her withdraw the money.
Ms F complained to Santander about not letting her to withdraw the cash, and then to us as 
she wasnt happy with Santanders response. Weve dealt with this complaint separately, so 
Im not going to say anything more about it here other than by way of context.
On 10 May 2021, Santander wrote to Ms F to say that it needed additional information and 
documents from her to make sure the information that it held on her was up-to-date and in 
order to meet UK legal and regulatory obligations. Santander said the fastest way for Ms F 
to update her details was to use its online form. Alternatively, Santander said that Ms F could 
complete the form it had enclosed with the letter, scan the completed form, and then send it 
back electronically. Santander said that Ms F could call, and it would explain how to send the 
completed form back electronically. Alternatively, Santander said that Ms F could visit her 
local Santander branch with her documents and its letter.
Ms F has told us that shes never received a letter like this before and that she was worried 
that it was a scam or connected with the cash withdrawal shed attempted. She also told us 
that she struggled to fill the form in because of her autism and struggled to return the form 
because it made assumptions about what she could and couldnt do and the type of 
technology she had access to. The form was nine pages long, and asked for a lot of 
information, most of which Ms F felt Santander should already know. So, she also thought 
Santander had asked for a lot of unnecessary information.
Santander wrote to Ms F another two times  on 10 June 2021 and 10 July  to remind her 
that it needed additional information and documents from her in order to meet its UK legal 
and regulatory obligations. Santander said that Ms F had 60 days to return the required 
information when it wrote to her on 10 June 2021, and if she didnt do so it would restrict 
access to her account. And that she had 30 days to return the required information when it 
wrote to her on 10 July 2021, and if she didnt do so it would restrict access to her account.
Ms F says she phoned Santander several times about the letters she received, the form 
shed been asked to fill in and the difficulties she was having doing so. She says that most of 
the time she had to hang-up as she couldnt wait on the phone any longer because of her 
disabilities. She says that when she managed to get through Santander couldnt explain why 
shed been sent the form or provide her with any help. Ms F also spoke to the investigator 
who was looking into her other complaint  see above  about the problems she was having. 
The investigator emailed and spoke to Santander several times during June and July 2021 
about the difficulties Ms F was having. And they set up this complaint on 28 July 2021.
On 3 August 2021, Santander emailed our investigator to say it had placed a request to call 
Ms F the following day. Ms F told our investigator  whod emailed her to let her know about 
the call request  that she wouldnt be able to take a call as she had a hospital appointment.
On 4 August 2021, Ms F emailed us to say that no-one from Santander had called her and 
that shed also had problems getting to her hospital appointment. Santander, on the other 
hand, says that it called and Ms F didnt pick up the phone. Ms F also told us that a family 
member had said theyd take her to branch the following day  involving a three hour round 
trip which they werent happy about  and that theyd have to push her wheelchair but that 
she couldnt get to the branch otherwise. Ms F said that she was very annoyed Santander 
had put her in this position. Santander also emailed us to say it had placed a request to call 
Ms F the following morning  our investigator let Ms F know.
On 5 August 2021, Ms F emailed us to say that no-one from Santander had called her. She 
also said that the family member had taken her to the branch with the additional information 
and documents shed been asked for. Santander has since confirmed that it received all the 
information and documents it needed.
Santander subsequently investigated Ms Fs complaint about the letters and form it had sent. 
Santander said it was entitled to ask for the information it had asked for, and that it had 
offered Ms F several options as far as supplying the information was concerned. So, it didnt 
think it had done anything wrong. It didnt agree that it had discriminated against Ms F, or 
failed to make reasonable adjustments. Ms F was unhappy with Santanders response and 
complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Fs complaint and said that they didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly or unreasonably. They said that it was reasonable of 
Santander to request the information it had asked for. They also said that Santander had 
given sufficient different methods for Ms F to provide the information. Ms F didnt agree and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into her complaint. Having done 
so, I issued a provisional decision saying that I agreed with our investigator that it was 
reasonable of Santander to request the information it had asked for. I did, however, say that 
I thought Santander had caused Ms F a significant amount of distress and inconvenience as 
a result of not explaining earlier why it was asking for additional information and documents 
and not offering her alternative ways of sending this information in, and support, once it 
knew she was struggling. So, I said Santander ought to pay her £300 in compensation. I 
asked both parties to comment on my provisional decision. Ms F said was happy with my 
provisional decision. Santander didnt comment on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santanders letters said Ms F could supply the information and documents it needed in one 
of three ways, namely updating her details using its online form, completely the form and 
sending a scanned copy back electronically or visiting her local branch.As I said in my provisional decision, Ms F isnt good with technology and doesnt have a 
scanner, so I accept that she wouldnt have been able to complete the form online and has 
no scanner, nor does she have any idea how to scan a document. She couldnt go into 
branch easily either  given her mobility problems and where she lives. So, I can see why 
Ms F felt Santander had made assumptions about what she could and couldnt do, and what 
technology she did and didnt have access to. I can also see why Ms F felt none of the 
alternatives shed been offered work for her, and why she felt Santander should have 
thought more carefully about customers like her before sending a letter like this out.
As I said in my provisional decision, Santander knew that Ms F was struggling to fill in the 
form  wed told Santander (assuming it didnt already know) that she was disabled and isnt 
able to visit her local branch and doesnt have the ability to scan documents  by 15 June 
2021 at the latest. So I would have expected Santander to have done more to help Ms F at 
that point. But it didnt get anyone to call Ms F until 3 August 2021 and, even then, it didnt let 
her know what time someone would be calling or check whether or not shed be available  
she wasnt, she had a hospital appointment. I dont think that was good enough. Ms F ended 
up going into branch on 5 August 2021  something that clearly wasnt at all easy for her  
with the help of a family member who had to make a three hour round trip. Im satisfied that 
she did this because she was really worried that Santander would restrict her account if she 
didnt do so and because Santander hadnt by then done enough to help. She shouldnt 
have needed to go in.
Putting things right
Ms F has supplied Santander with the information and documents it needed  she did so 
when she visited her usual branch on 5 August 2021. As I mentioned in my provisional 
decision, however, Im satisfied that the whole process caused Ms F significant distress and 
inconvenience for which an award of £300 would be appropriate. I remain of that view.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Ms F £300 in compensation in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman