DRN-3659111
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly defaulted 
its Bounce Back Loan facility.
Es director, Mr R, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
E banked with Starling and borrowed £50,000 from the bank through the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme. Mr R also banked with Starling in a personal capacity, but this complaint deals only 
with the accounts held by E.
Starling initiated a review of the accounts held by Mr R, including that of Es, in June 2021. A 
restriction was applied to Es account, limiting its use while this was completed.
The findings of Starlings review ultimately led it to withdraw its services from E. This 
included the termination of the Bounce Back Loan, for which Starling sent E a default notice 
on 25 October 2021 demanding its immediate repayment. 
Starling subsequently closed Es bank account on 5 November 2021, having applied the 
closing balance of £170.10 to the amount E owed under the Bounce Back Loan agreement. 
This left E owing £50,394.56, which was due immediately.
Mr R doesnt think it was fair for Starling to default the Bounce Back Loan, particularly as E 
had been repaying it in line with the terms of the agreement and as the bank hasnt 
explained why it took this action. He says that the demand to repay the loan immediately has 
put pressure on the companys finances, and left it unable to obtain any credit elsewhere 
due to the default recorded in its name. So he wants Starling to allow E to repay the loan 
over the original terms of the agreement, and remove the default marker.
Our investigator didnt think Starling had done anything wrong. In summary, she said:
Starling had the power, under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan 
agreement and the rules of the Loan Scheme, to terminate the loan in certain 
circumstances.
Starling had shared the reasons for its decision with us in confidence and, having 
reviewed these, she was satisfied that the bank had reasonable grounds to recall the 
loan.
Starling had given E as much information about the termination as would reasonably 
be expected in the circumstances, having advised the company in writing of the 
default and its consequences.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view, as he still didnt think it was fair for the loan to 
have been defaulted when there were no issues with its repayment. He also questioned 
whether the loan had been defaulted or whether a County Court Judgement (CCJ) had been 
registered, as he said hed not been kept informed. 
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Es account allowed Starling to suspend its services. Starling 
has explained and evidenced that it did so in order to comply with its legal obligations. From 
the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. So I dont think Starling did 
anything wrong in restricting Es account while it conducted its review. 
Following the review, Starling decided to close Es account. That was a decision it was 
entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed the bank to close the companys account 
for any reason at any time by giving two months notice. But it could also do so immediately 
in certain circumstances. The bank closed Es account with only seven days notice. I think 
that was reasonable, in light of the findings of its review.
Starlings review also led it to terminate Es Bounce Back Loan facility. The terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed the bank to cancel the facility and demand its immediate 
repayment of the loan in certain circumstances. While the failure to pay the required 
instalments would be one such circumstance, it isnt the only one. So the fact that E was 
maintaining the monthly payments doesnt mean that Starling couldnt terminate the 
agreement. The bank had fairly broad powers to do so under the terms and conditions. And, 
in light of the findings of its review, Im satisfied that it was entitled to recall the loan in the 
manner it did.
I recognise that Starlings decision  and the position this has left E in  will be difficult for 
Mr R to accept, particularly without knowing the reasons behind it. But Starling isnt obliged 
to disclose its rationale and I cant fairly require it do so. Our rules allow us to accept 
information in confidence, so Starling has shared the reasons for its decision with us. So I 
can assure Mr R that I have carefully reviewed this in assessing whether Starling acted 
fairly, and in concluding that it did.
I understand Mr R wants Starling to allow E to repay the loan over the originally agreed 
terms of repayment. But with the loan having defaulted, the balance became immediately 
repayable  and the original payment schedule has therefore ceased to apply. I understand 
from what Mr R says that E might not have the means by which to repay the full amount 
owing. So I suggest he liaises with Starling as to a way forward, if he hasnt already done so 
while awaiting the outcome of this complaint. Id expect Starling to give fair consideration to 
any repayment proposals he makes.
Ive also noted that Mr R is concerned as to whether the loan has only been defaulted or 
whether a CCJ has been issued. A CCJ is a court judgement and Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that the recovery action has reached that stage. Mr R may want to speak to Starling 
to obtain an update if he is unsure of the current position.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman