DRN-3521139
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) placed a fraud marker against his 
name.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr L complained to BMF after he discovered it had applied a fraud marker 
against his name using the Cifas database in 2018.
BMF responded to Mr Ls complaint pointing out that after investigation, it had applied the 
fraud marker correctly. It said:
Mr L was twenty-five payment in arrears on his motor finance agreement.
Its agents had attempted to recover the vehicle, but were unsuccessful.
For the above reasons, it felt Mr L had committed theft and reported the matter to the 
police.
The matter was also recorded with Cifas for the same reasons.
Mr L remained unhappy with BMFs response, so he came to our service to assess his 
complaint independently. Mr L told our service that he believed BMF had applied the marker 
due to him being in financial difficulties. He provided the following testimony:
Repayments were made on the vehicle from the time the credit agreement was taken 
out in 2016 up until January 2018. These repayments equated to circa 80% of the 
total sum owed.
Repayments ceased in 2018 as he fell into financial difficulty. He was residing abroad 
at the time due to work commitments and wasnt receiving the correspondence being 
sent to him by BMF.
The vehicle was then seized by police in the country he was residing in due to BMF 
reporting the vehicle stolen. 
He then contacted BMF and offered to repay £5,000 in full and final settlement of the 
agreement. This was refused as the outstanding balance was over £7,000. But Mr L 
found this offer reasonable considering the costs he would incur from having the 
vehicle released.
An Investigator considered this testimony against the evidence provided by BMF. Having 
done so, they concluded that BMF had made an error. Broadly summarised, the 
Investigator pointed out that while Mr L had breached the terms of his credit agreement, 
the evidence didnt support that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or 
attempted. They recommended that the Cifas be removed and that £500 be paid to Mr L 
for the impact the marker had.
BMF disagreed. It maintained that Mr L took the vehicle outside of the jurisdiction of the UK, 
and this in turn supported the fact he was depriving it of the asset. It also pointed out that itd 
reported the vehicle as stolen to the police, and as this was accepted, this further supported 
its argument that the Cifas loading was applied fairly. 
As BMF disagreed, the matter was passed to me for a decision. On 15 August 2022 I issued 
provisional findings to both parties; these were as follows:
The relevant considerations here are set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database 
controller. In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit 
sets out the burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards regarding this 
complaint are:
1. That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
[BMF] could confidently report the conduct of the subject [Mr L] to the police.
The sequence of events that Ive witnessed from testimony and evidence support that, at 
the time of loading the marker, BMF did have sufficient reasoning to fulfil these two 
requirements. Mr F had failed to make a substantial number of payments, was ignoring or 
not engaging fully with correspondences BMF sent to try and resolve the matter and he, 
and the vehicle, were untraceable through investigations.
I have considered the fact that Mr F had already paid off a substantial balance of the total 
sum owed, and that hed entered into a repayment agreement suggesting he was in 
financial difficulty. And these factors dont represent a person intent on defrauding a 
business. But Mr L did still owe a significant balance and was failing to make repayments 
of this balance or meaningfully engage with the business regarding it. So, I can see why 
BMF felt it appropriate to load the marker at this stage; it wasnt aware of Mr Ls 
circumstances due to his own inaction and itd failed in its attempts to trace him or the 
vehicle.
Having said this, I dont think it was appropriate to retain the marker later in the sequence 
of events.
In January 2019, Mr L decided to begin meaningful dialogue with BMF: one year after 
hed last contacted it. In these emails, Mr L began to explain in more detail his current 
circumstances. He pointed out that hed not received any correspondences regarding 
the outstanding debt, he didnt realise the Direct Debit payments had ceased and had 
moved abroad.
BMF responded to Mr Ls email stating that in order for collections activities to cease, 
hed have to repay the remaining balance in full.
It was after this point that Mr L informed BMF that the car had been seized in the country he 
was living in and that he had to pay £2,500 to have it released. As such, he offered to pay 
BMF £5,000 in final settlement of the debt deducting the release fee from the total amount 
owed. This offer was declined.
I dont find, from this point forward, that BMF had sufficient evidence to support the 
retention of the marker. Mr L had provided a reasonable explanation to his circumstances 
which BMF decided not to look into further. I think its likely that this occurred as BMF 
were concentrating on its collection activities rather than considering the marker that itd 
applied. But Im persuaded that Mr Ls explanation is convincing. He clearly did take the 
vehicle to another country, has provided our service with evidence that it was seized by 
police and had not only paid off a vast proportion of the debt prior to falling into financial 
difficulties, but offered to pay a large proportion of the remaining balance to settle the 
matter. I dont find these to be the actions of a person intent on defrauding BMF or commit 
a financial crime against it. Mr L was unable to return the vehicle due to it being in police custody and was attempting to negotiate the matter with BMF in a way that he felt was 
acceptable for both parties.
BMF has made submissions that its reporting of the vehicle being stolen to policeand 
this being accepted by themis a clear indicator that itd met the bar for a loading to be 
placed. But what BMF has failed to consider is that this is solely based on information it 
has provided to police at the time. Ive seen no evidence that Mr Ls own testimony or 
evidence has been included in any submissions to police and Ive seen no evidence of any 
ongoing criminal proceedings against him.
For all the above reasons, I dont find the marker now fairly meets the requirements set 
out by Cifas.
Ive also considered how the marker has impacted Mr L and if he contributed to this in 
some way. Having done so, I dont find the £500 recommended by the Investigator to be 
fair.
As Ive already referred to above, the marker was, in my view, initially recorded correctly. 
And I do find that the situation that Mr L had gotten himself into was largely down to his 
own actions or inactions.
Had Mr L ensured that he maintained the payments agreed with BMF, or told it about his 
change of circumstances, address or contact details, its unlikely he would have ended up 
in arrears or had the marker recorded: both of which went on to impact his credit rating.
Furthermore, taking the vehicle out of the country was a breach of the terms of the 
credit agreement and prevented BMF from being able to trace him.
Ive also considered the police report hes provided to our service. Ive seen no evidence 
that the vehicle was taken from him due to BMFs reporting of the vehicle as stolen. To the 
contrary, the report highlights that the vehicle was left unattended for a lengthy period of 
time at the place it was seized from and Mr L had no papers to support his ownership. So, 
I think the reasons Mr L gave for not settling the full amount were unreasonable 
considering BMFs actions had no impact on what occurred. This is further supported by 
Mr Ls testimony that it would require £2,500 to have the vehicle released; something that 
wouldnt be plausible if the car was being treated as stolen.
While I appreciate Mr L did fall into financial difficulties, and no longer had access to the 
vehicle he was making repayments on, I do find that his actions were a significant factor 
in the impact that was felt from the failure to make repayments and breaching the terms 
of his agreement.
For the reasons above, Im minded to say that the Cifas marker should now be removed 
without delay. But I dont find it appropriate that BMF pays Mr L compensation for the impact 
the marker, and any missed payments, caused.
 
Both parties responded to my provisional findings with further submissions.
Mr L disagreed that he shouldnt be owed compensation. Broadly, he pointed out the 
following:
While the report that was provided from police related to a previous seizure of the 
vehicle, he maintained that the vehicle was seized again as a result of BMFs 
reporting of the vehicle as being stolen. This led to the offer of final settlement that 
reduced the cost of retrieving the vehicle again.
He maintained that the Cifas marker wasnt loaded correctly in the first instance. He felt that the loading of the marker and the reporting of the vehicle to police as stolen 
was inappropriate where he was experiencing financial difficulty.
He was the legal owner of the vehicle while he was abroad, so was not in breach of 
any contract.
The Cifas marker precluded him from doing day-to-day banking as he couldnt open 
accounts and had his existing accounts closed.
BMF also asked that further information be taken into consideration. It provided a historic 
news article showing that Mr L had been involved in fraudulent practices and asked that the 
decision be reconsidered on this basis.
As both parties have now responded to my provisional findings, Im now in a position to 
issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the additional submissions provided by both parties, Im not persuaded to 
depart from the findings given in my provisional decision. I dont intend to repeat what Ive 
already highlighted in my previous decision, but I will respond to the additional points raised.
Mr L has pointed out that he wasnt in breach of his contract and claims to have been the 
legal owner of the vehicle. But having checked the agreement he signed with BMF, I dont 
agree with either of these points. The terms of his agreement clearly state the following:
3. Selling or disposing of the goods
 
You must keep the goods safely at your address shown on the preceding pages...If your 
goods are a motor vehicle, you must keep it at your home address shown on the preceding 
pages when it is not in use and you are allowed to take the vehicle to any country in the EU 
for up to 30 days (maximum of 60 days in any calendar year) but no more and you may only 
take the vehicle outside the UK at all if this is permitted under your motor insurance policy...
 
...5. Change of address
 
You must let us know, in writing, within seven days about any change of your address."
Considering the above terms, its clear that Mr L has breached them. He took the vehicle to 
a country outside of the EU and for over the time period allowed as part of his agreement. 
He also failed to inform BMF of his circumstances and change of address. Not only did this 
remove the vehicle from BMFs jurisdictiondenying it the ability to repossessbut his lack 
of adherence to the terms also lead to failed attempts by BMF to contact him and resolve the 
issue of his failure to make repayments. 
However, for the reasons Ive already set out in my provisional findings, I dont find it likely 
this was deliberate or with malicious intention considering the evidence now provided. 
Nevertheless, Mr L did sign the agreement and therefore agreed to the terms of it. 
Ive also seen no evidence to support Mr Ls claim that the vehicle was seized again by 
police in the country he was residing in as a result of BMF reporting the vehicle as stolen. 
But even if Mr L were able to provide this, it wouldnt persuade me that he was still entitled to 
compensation. I say this as I remain of the opinion that BMF were correct to load the marker 
at the point that it did. Mr L had failed to make a number of repayments on the vehicle over a significant period of time. BMF also spent considerable time and resources attempting to 
trace the vehicle as a result of this. And despite numerous attempts to engage with him, Mr L 
failed to make any meaningful contact with BMF to explain his circumstances or arrange 
alternative methods of repayment. 
Considering that Mr L contributed substantially to the reasons for the marker being loaded in 
the first place, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for BMF to compensate him for this. 
Even at the point that Mr L did begin engaging with the business, the loading had been 
against his name for some time. And the damage to his credit rating had already been done 
from his non-repayment of the debt and the marker which had been placed correctly at the 
time. So in concluding, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect BMF to 
compensate Mr L for the impact these had on him.   
Im also not persuaded to change my view based on the article BMF has provided about 
Mr Ls previous conduct. This matter is historic and unrelated to the circumstances of this 
complaint. Ive already provided extensive reasoning as to why I dont find Mr L has acted 
intentionally dishonest in the circumstances of this complaint, and I remain of that opinion 
considering the evidence and testimony that has been provided by him thus far. 
Putting things right
BMF should now go ahead and remove the Cifas marker it has recorded against Mr Ls 
name without delay. But Im not persuaded that it should compensate Mr L for the impact the 
marker had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
to remove the Cifas marker it has recorded against Mr Ls name without delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022. 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman