DRN-2949736
The complaint
Mr L had motor insurance with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). He complains about how 
Aviva dealt with things when he had a car accident.
What happened
Mr L was driving his car when the car in front stopped and he collided with it. Mr L rang 
Aviva and told them what had happened. He said the other car stopped suddenly and 
unexpectedly and he hit it. But he said the accident wasnt his fault because the other driver 
stopped with no warning and for no reason, and may have done so deliberately. Mr L also 
raised concerns about the other driver being under the influence of drugs, and possibly 
having no licence or insurance. Mr L said the other driver told him the car was not his, but 
belonged to a family member. Mr L gave Aviva the other drivers first name and phone 
number, and the registration number of the car. He later said he could also give Aviva the 
phone number of the family member who owned the car.
The third party insurer claimed against Mr Ls policy and Aviva decided to settle the claim. 
Mr L wasnt happy with this as he didnt think the accident was his fault, so he complained to 
Aviva.
Aviva believed it had made the right decision to settle the third party claim. However, Aviva 
accepted that it shouldve told Mr L early on that it didnt have enough information to prove 
fraudulent activity, and set his expectations better that this would be a claim on his policy. 
Aviva also said it shouldve kept Mr L better informed and told him when the claim was 
settled. Aviva offered Mr L £200 compensation.
Mr L wasnt happy with Avivas response, so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think Aviva had reached its liability decision unreasonably, and so didnt ask it to do 
anything more.
Mr L wasnt happy with the investigators response, and so his complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr L says Aviva failed to properly investigate what happened, and shouldve made sure 
the third party claim was genuine. He says his insurance premiums and no claims discount 
have been severely affected as a result. Mr L wants Aviva to record the claim as non fault, 
reinstate his no claims discount and reimburse him for the increase in his premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt my role to establish who was at fault in the collision. That is better settled by a court. 
My role is to decide whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably and in accordance with Mr Ls 
policy. 
Mr Ls insurance policy says -
GENERAL CONDITIONS THAT APPLY TO THE WHOLE POLICY
Our rights
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming under the 
policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our own benefit to 
recover any payment we have made under this policy.
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any 
claim.
Aviva did contact its fraud advisor, but Mr L could only give very limited information about the 
other driver, which the fraud advisor said wasnt enough to carry out an investigation. Aviva 
said it was unlikely the other driver had stopped deliberately to create a claim, as in its 
experience these types of cash for crash claims usually include a claim for personal injury, 
which the other driver hadnt done. Any issue of whether the other driver was under the 
influence of drugs wouldve been a matter for the police at the time.
The third party insurer settled the third party claim before trying to claim back the amount 
paid from Aviva. It is usual in cases like this for the other insurer to make all the necessary 
checks before doing so, or it risked not being reimbursed by Aviva. I think it was reasonable 
of Aviva to accept that the other insurer had carried out the necessary checks. Theres no 
advantage for Aviva in paying out on a claim that might not be genuine.
There were no other witnesses to the collision or anything like CCTV or dashcam footage. 
So Aviva said it couldnt prove the other driver stopped for no reason. Mr L accepts that he 
hit the car in front when it stopped. Aviva said he should have left a safe braking distance.
Under the terms of Mr Ls policy, Aviva was entitled to deal with the third party claim as it 
thought best. I think it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to have settled the claim as it did, 
taking into account all the available evidence. Aviva offered Mr L £200 compensation for the 
way his claim was handled. I think this was fair and reasonable. So I wont be asking Aviva 
to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman