DRN-1463544
 
The complaint
Mr B says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term high-cost loans MYJAR provided to Mr B 
between September 2017 and March 2018. They varied in term from 3 to 12 months. This is 
a summary of Mr Bs lending history from MYJAR. 
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 13/09/2017 28/11/2017 250
2 28/11/2017 21/02/2018 200
3 23/02/2018 16/03/2018 325
4 16/03/2018 07/08/2018 1100
 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint in part and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given. MYJAR disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to 
establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
There was nothing to indicate MYJAR needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. I 
think it carried out proportionate checks looking at affordability and creditworthiness, and 
there was nothing in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to make 
different lending decisions. So I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr B. 
But by the time Mr B came to apply for loan 4 I think MYJAR ought to have realised it was 
likely Mr B was having difficulties repaying his loans. Each time Mr B repaid a loan to 
MYJAR he then borrowed again either on the same day, or within a couple of days. And by 
loan 4 the amount he was borrowing had increased to £1,100 - from £250 for his first loan. 
This frequency of borrowing and increase in loan value suggests to me it was unlikely Mr B 
was making his repayments in a sustainable way.
And the regulations required MYJAR to check that Mr B could afford to make his repayments 
in a sustainable manner. Successfully meeting his repayments doesnt automatically mean 
that he managed to do so without difficulty, in other words without borrowing from elsewhere 
or going without. Repaying one loan and taking out another immediately might not amount to 
an indication of unsustainability but I think when it happens a number of times, it should be a 
cause for concern. Mr Bs fourth loan was for an amount of more than four times his first 
loan, and he would need to meet repayments, potentially, for 12 months.
So I think it was more likely than not that Mr B would struggle to meet his repayments for this 
fourth loan in a sustainable manner.
I know MYJAR disagrees, and argues that Mr B repaid loan 4 early and didnt then borrow 
again so this shows he was using the loan as intended - to help with a short-term cash flow 
problem - and it was sustainable. But I dont think this is a fair conclusion (it doesnt know 
how he repaid loan 4), and even if I did, this was not information it had when it decided to 
give Mr B loan 4. What it knew at that stage was that Mr B was repeatedly borrowing 
increasingly higher amounts each time he repaid a previous loan. So I think by loan 4 
MYJAR ought to have realised there was a significant risk Mr B had longer term financial 
issues, and not just a short term cash flow problem. And that it was more likely than not Mr B was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that his indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably. It follows I don't think MYJAR should have given loan 4 to Mr B.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 4, and MYJAR should put things right.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about loan 4 from Mr Bs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman