DRN-2365130
The complaint
Mr C complains that Zenith Insurance plc took too long to let him know he could add a 
replacement van to his commercial vehicle insurance policy. He said because of this he was 
unable to work and lost earnings. 
What happened
Mr Cs van was stolen, Zenith reviewed the claim and accepted it. During the claim Zenith 
became aware Mr C also had a motor trade policy. Because of this Zenith thought he had a 
second occupation it hadnt been made aware of. Mr C said he didnt have a second 
occupation but had a motor trade policy because of a hobby of his. Zenith said it would 
review this to decide whether it would agree to continue to cover Mr C. While the review was 
happening Mr C was unable to add another van to his commercial vehicle policy. 
A few weeks later Mr C received a letter saying if he didnt add another vehicle to his policy it 
would be cancelled. Mr C then added another van to this policy. He also complained to 
Zenith and said it had taken too long to do the review and because of this hed been unable 
to work as he couldnt use his van for his landscaping work.
Zenith looked into Mr Cs complaint and upheld it. Zenith agreed there had been a delay of 
around three weeks where it hadnt communicated to Mr C that its review had been 
completed. Because of this Zenith offered Mr C £150 compensation. Mr C didnt think this 
was enough, he said hed lost out on around £5,500 in earnings and that Zenith should 
compensate him for this. As he wasnt happy with Zeniths response, he brought his 
complaint here.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt think Zenith had offered enough 
compensation. Because of this Zenith increased its offer to £500. She also asked Mr C for 
evidence of his lost earnings. Mr C provided evidence of how much VAT hed paid and an 
invoice to show what his hourly rate is. Our investigator said the VAT Mr C had paid didnt 
show what his earnings would have been, just how much VAT hed paid. She also didnt 
think knowing his hourly rate was enough to show hed lost out on work during the three-
week delay, or that Mr C had taken steps to mitigate his losses. 
Mr C wasnt happy without our investigators outcome. He said he couldnt provide his self-
assessment tax return, as hed only started working as a sole trader that year, so hadnt 
completed one yet. He also said he couldnt provide details of the work hed had as hed 
signed non-disclosure agreements with his customers. Mr C said he could provide his tax 
returns once they were completed. He then said he was in the process of going bankrupt so 
wouldnt be completing a tax return. 
As Mr C didnt agree with our investigator the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Zenith became aware Mr C may have another occupation it reviewed his policy to see 
whether it would still provide cover. I dont think this is unreasonable as it discovered during 
the course of a claim some information which meant it might not have provided cover. 
However, as Zenith didnt communicate the outcome of its review and let Mr C know he 
could put another vehicle onto his policy, it caused an unnecessary delay. Ive therefore 
looked at the effect of this delay on Mr C to decide whether Im satisfied Zenith has done 
enough to put him back into the position he would have been in had the delay not occurred. 
Mr C said he missed out on work for three weeks because of the delay. As Zenith caused an 
unnecessary delay its only fair and reasonable it compensates Mr C for this. But in order to 
award anything for the loss Id also need to be satisfied Mr C mitigated his losses. Our 
investigator asked Mr C what steps he took to ensure he could work and reduce the impact 
Zeniths error had. Mr C hasnt provided anything to show what he did to try and mitigate the 
impact this had. 
Our investigator also asked Mr C to evidence the financial impact Zeniths error had on him. I 
can see Mr C has asked what he could provide to show this. For loss of earnings I think pay 
slips if youre employed, or if youre self-employed, a copy of your tax return or something 
similar would be helpful. This is because it would show how much money someone has 
earnt after paying tax and would give the most accurate reflection of their earnings. Its not to 
say this is all that can be provided though as there may be other information someone could 
provide to evidence their earnings. 
Mr C said he cant provide his tax returns as hes now going bankrupt so wont be 
completing them. I am sorry to hear how much of a difficult situation Mr C is in. Ive reviewed 
the information he has provided but Im not persuaded this is enough to show his lost 
earnings. This is because showing how much VAT youve paid doesnt show how much 
money youve earnt after paying other taxes or costs. While Mr C has also provided an 
invoice, Im also not satisfied this is enough to evidence his lost earnings for the three weeks 
in question. This is because Id need to be satisfied, hed had work hed had to cancel, and 
Mr C hasnt provided this. 
Even if he did, Im not satisfied it would make a difference in this particular case.  I say that 
because Id need to be satisfied Mr C mitigated his losses, and Im aware Mr C had another 
van he could use as he tried to add it to his policy. I therefore think there were other options 
Mr C could have looked at to enable him to use this van or get access to another one. When 
our investigator asked Mr C what steps hed taken to try and enable him to work, he hasnt 
provided an explanation. So even if he did evidence his loss of earnings it wouldnt be fair to 
ask Zenith to cover them unless I was satisfied Mr C had taken reasonable steps to try and 
reduce his losses. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr C was hoping for, but for the reasons explained above 
Im satisfied Zeniths offer of £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for the delay. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Zenith Insurance plc to pay 
Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused, if it hasnt done so already.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman