DRN-2452515
The complaint
Ms R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has wrongly said and reported that she has a credit 
card account.
What happened
Ms R noticed the account when she looked at her credit report with a third party. She 
contacted HSBC about this and was given conflicting information. But she doesnt accept 
that she had a gold credit card account and thinks she has been the victim of identity fraud.
HSBC said that the account was opened in 2003. The last transactions took place in 2008 
and it became dormant with a very small positive balance. It continued to be reported to 
credit reference agencies. When Ms R first contacted a branch, she was wrongly told that 
there was no account, and then that it had been closed. The account has now been closed 
and it says it should have given her assurances that there was no fraud from the start. It 
offered to pay her £150.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything further. There were now no 
copies of the application from 2003. But there was no evidence of any actual fraudulent 
payments from the account. And past repayments to the account had been made which he 
thought most unlikely behaviour of a fraudster. There had been no financial loss for Ms R, 
and he thought that the compensation offered was reasonable for the poor customer service.
Ms R didnt agree. She said she was unable to accept that she had a gold credit card in her 
name. She would remember this, and her income wouldnt have supported it. There was a 
burglary of her property and she thinks that this card is linked to this and she assumes her 
records have been changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand Ms Rs concern and worry about identity theft and her genuine belief that 
she had been targeted. And her distress when HSBC didnt acknowledge this and gave her 
information about a credit card account that she didnt recognise. She also saw this on credit 
reference agency reports which only served to heighten her anxiety.
The evidence from HSBC is that this card account was opened in 2003 and is marked as a 
gold card. The last payment due was in April 2008. And the account has been dormant with 
no live card that could be used. It wasnt closed because there were some small refunds that 
left a positive balance. 
Ms R seems to accept that she had an account at one time. In her complaint form to this 
service she says that I had not had a gold credit card for nearly 17 years and no credit card 
since 2008. I want to know what was going on  no explanation has been given.
I take from this that Ms R thought that any such card she did have was closed even if it was 
originally a gold card account. While Ms R explains that she was broken into early in 2019 
there is no evidence that a card account was opened with her information after that. And as 
our investigator says a fraudster would have most likely tried to use the account. There was 
no active card on any such account in Ms Rs name at HSBC.
HSBC accepts it could have given Ms R a better explanation of what it says happened when 
she first visited a branch. And that it saying to her there was no account only served to make 
her more worried. It has recorded multiple branch visits, phone calls and letters from her. It 
eventually confirmed to her that the account was closed and that this had been reported to 
credit reference agencies.
I dont find it most likely that there has been any identity fraud at HSBC using Ms Rs details. 
As I say I think Ms R thought that any credit card account was closed at HSBC. And it may 
be that she had asked that this be done  and certainly thought it had as she no longer 
received statements or a card. But Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that the account 
still reported to credit reference agencies was the one opened in 2003. 
HSBC has offered the compensation for the confusion caused and has confirmed that the 
account is now closed, and its reported as settled to the credit reference agencies. I think 
that is reasonable and so I wont be asking it to do more than that. I know Ms R will remain 
dissatisfied with whats happened.
My final decision
HSBC has made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is fair in the circumstances. My 
decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Ms R £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman