DRN-3325706
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) under the home 
emergency cover provided as part of their home insurance policy. They are unhappy that 
IPA declined their claim in respect of a leak from a shower room.
This decision covers Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint about IPAs decline of their claim under the 
home emergency cover section of Mrs K and Mr Ks home insurance policy. It doesnt cover 
the rest of the home insurance policy, which was provided by a separate insurer.
What happened
In August 2021 Mrs K and Mr K found water coming through their kitchen ceiling from the 
shower room above. Mrs K and Mr K contacted IPA, who told them not to use the shower 
room. IPA sent an engineer to inspect the problem. He said they would only be covered for 
the water damage to the ceiling as it wasnt considered to be an emergency because Mrs K 
and Mr K had access to another bathroom. 
But Mrs K and Mr K werent convinced by IPAs position, having had a similar problem in 
November 2020 with a leak through the ceiling from another bathroom. On that occasion IPA 
sent a plumber who assessed the problem as a leak from a shower tray. IPA covered the 
cost of replacing the shower tray, refurbishment of the shower area and repair of the kitchen 
ceiling. There wasnt any mention of having an alternative bathroom (or shower room) as 
IPA had told Mrs K and Mr K in respect of the August 2021 incident. 
Mrs K and Mr K were unhappy at the second claim being treated differently from the earlier 
claim. They thought there wasnt anything in the policy that meant cover wasnt provided 
where an alternative bathroom was available, so they complained to IPA.
In their final response, IPA didnt uphold the complaint. They referred to the terms and 
conditions of the policy that defined an emergency as a sudden, unexpected event that (in 
IPAs view) required immediate action to either prevent damage (or further damage) to a 
home, or to make a home safe or secure, or habitable. IPA said that as the shower was 
leaking when in use, and there was a second bathroom that could be used, they didnt 
consider this required immediate action as it wasnt an emergency.
Mrs K and Mr K then complained to this service. They were unhappy at having a shower 
room that they couldnt use, given the leak. The problem needed to be fixed, which would 
affect them through considerable financial expense (theyd been quoted £5,100 to replace 
the shower unit and repair the damage to the shower room). They wanted IPA to fully re-
imburse the cost of repairing the shower, as they had done with the earlier leak from the 
bathroom.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint, concluding IPA didnt need to take 
any action. He concluded the reasons given by IPA for not accepting the second claim were 
reasonable, based on the definition of a home emergency in the policy. As the home 
emergency section was an optional additional element of the home insurance policy, then the 
cost of the damage caused by the leak (and to the shower unit itself) wouldnt be for IPA to 
settle  it should be claimed for under the buildings insurance section of the policy. The 
investigator also thought that, from the call notes provided, IPA had settled the earlier claim 
in error (as theyd recorded the leak as continuous, so would have been considered to be an 
emergency).
Mrs K and Mr K disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In doing so, they made several points. First that the insurance 
document doesnt state that access to another shower allowed IPA to avoid the claim (for the 
damage). Second, that in discussion with IPA they were told that if the policy were to cover 
everything it would take 70 pages. Third, as the water from the leak was coming through the 
ceiling it should have been considered an emergency. Finally, that IPA covered a similar 
situation (a leak) previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether IPA has acted fairly towards Mrs K and Mr K.
The main element of Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint is that IPA unfairly declined the claim for 
fixing the leak from their shower room. They feel that the policy didnt stipulate that cover 
wouldnt be provided where there was a second bathroom in the property (as well as IPAs 
comment that the policy would be 70 pages if it were to cover everything). IPAs view is that 
the leak from the shower wasnt an emergency under the terms and conditions of the policy.
 
Ive considered both views carefully, but on balance Im persuaded by IPAs view. In 
reaching this conclusion Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the home emergency 
section of the policy that IPA referred to in their final response. Specifically, they pointed to 
the following definition of the term Home Emergency:
A sudden unexpected event, which in the Insurers opinion requires immediate 
action to:
a) Prevent damage or further damage to your home; or
b) Make your home safe or secure or habitable.
Theres a similar reference in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) produced 
alongside the full policy document. Under the heading What is not insured? It states (for 
Home Emergency Cover):
x An event that is not classed as an emergency i.e. an event that does not require 
immediate action to prevent damage or further damage and/or to make your home 
safe, secure and habitable
Looking at these terms and conditions, as the leak from the shower was only present when 
the shower was used, then not using the shower meant that the leak didnt recur and so 
didnt lead to damage (or further damage). Had the leak been continuous, then it would have 
been likely to be considered an emergency. As there was a second bathroom at Mrs K and 
Mr Ks property, then not being able to use the shower wouldnt leave then without bathing 
facilities (so the property was still habitable). So, I dont think IPA were declining the claim 
specifically because there was a second bathroom (and they should have included this as an 
exclusion if they were). They declined it because they (the insurer) didnt consider it to be an 
emergency. So, Ive concluded that IPA didnt apply the policy terms and conditions unfairly 
or unreasonably in declining Mrs K and Mr Ks claim. The other aspect of Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint is that IPA hadnt acted consistently in 
applying the policy to the earlier incident with a leak from the bathroom, when they accepted 
a claim for the leak. Ive considered this point, but Ive noted that the claim was accepted 
because at the time IPA had thought the leak was continuous (not just when the shower was 
used, as was the case in the second incident). As such, I think it was reasonable to have 
considered this to be an emergency, as a continuous leak would have caused more and 
more damage unless it was fixed. 
But the fact that the first claim would appear to have been accepted in error, due to a 
misunderstanding about the nature of the leak, doesnt mean that IPA should therefore have 
accepted the second claim (when it was clear that the leak was only present when the 
shower was used). So, Im not persuaded that this means IPA acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when declining the second claim. Given the nature of the damage from the second leak, I 
think as an escape of water, any claim should be considered under the buildings section of 
the home insurance policy (not the home emergency section). That would be for the insurer 
of the buildings section (which isnt IPA).
Taking all these factors into account, Ive concluded that I dont think it was unreasonable for 
IPA to decline Mrs K and Mr Ks second claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman