DRN-3478309
The complaint
Mrs W complains Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) unfairly registered a default on her 
credit file relating to her credit card account.  
What happened
Mrs W says she maintained a credit card account with Capital One for a number of years but 
during the Covid pandemic her income was badly affected, and it agreed a payment holiday 
in June 2020, lasting 90 days. Mrs W says in January 2021 she received a default notice, 
amongst other letters from Capital One, which had been held up in the postal system and 
these had been sent to her old address. 
Mrs W says she had no way of knowing her account was in default as she hadnt received 
the letters from Capital One and by the time she had, the default had already been 
registered against her credit file. Mrs W says she feels Capital One have acted unfairly here, 
as shes had no opportunity to set up any payment arrangement and furthermore she had 
previously provided Capital One with details of her change of address.  
Mrs W also says even though Capital One have since agreed a token payment plan of £1 
per month until her complaint is settled, it has still placed her credit card account with a debt 
collection agency. Mrs W wants Capital One to remove the default from her credit file and 
take back the debt from the debt collection agency.
Capital One says it sent a number of emails and letters to Mrs W about the arrears 
outstanding on her credit card account and subsequently issued a formal default notice. 
Capital One says it isnt at fault if Mrs W didnt receive the letters and notice of default, but 
these were sent to the address held on file and it has no record of her informing them she 
had moved. Capital One says following the agreed payment holiday, Mrs Ws credit card 
account fell into arrears and she was correctly informed of this, and it acted within its 
obligations when it registered the default on her credit file. 
Capital One says despite a temporary payment plan being in place, it was still entitled to 
place the credit card account with a debt collection agency.
Mrs W wasnt happy with Capital Ones response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Capital One had written and emailed Mrs W on several occasions, 
regarding the arrears on her credit card account and issued a formal default, which 
explained the consequences of her failing to meet her obligations. The investigator says 
there was no evidence to support Mrs Ws claim she had previously informed Capital One of 
her change of address. The investigator felt Capital One were obliged to correctly report a 
default on Mrs Ws credit file and had done nothing wrong here. The investigator pointed out 
Capital One could still place her credit card account with debt recovery agents while her 
complaint was on going and its actions hadnt changed the agreed payment plan in place. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I understand Mrs W experienced financial difficulties as a result of the Covid pandemic and 
that must have been upsetting for her. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if 
Capital One acted fairly when it registered a default on Mrs Ws credit file. 
The first thing to say is I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike. 
I have been provided with numerous telephone call recordings and while that has proved 
helpful, I wont be commenting about what was said in every call, as I dont feel its 
necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I havent 
considered what was said in those calls  I have. 
Mrs Ws complaint centres around the fact she never received any letters from Capital One 
about the intended default on her credit card account. Mrs W says in January 2021 she 
picked up letters from her old address informing her she had been defaulted by which time 
she had no opportunity to put matters right. Mrs W also says she recalls telephoning Capital 
One during the Covid pandemic informing them of her new address.
While I understand the points Mrs W makes here, Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I 
say this because Mrs W would have known a payment holiday had been agreed on her 
credit card account in June 2020, for three months and having listened to the telephone call 
recording at that time, it was made clear that normal monthly payments would continue after 
this. So, its fair to say Mrs W would have known she was expected to make payments to her 
credit card account after the payment holiday expired and it was her responsibility to ensure 
those monthly payments were met on time, given the records we have seen show Mrs W 
previously cancelled the direct debit for those payments back in March 2020. 
I have also seen a number of letters sent from Capital One between September 2020 until 
the credit card account was defaulted in January 2021. These letters included notices of 
arrears, default, and suspension of the credit card and asking Mrs W to get in touch to 
discuss options available to her. I can also see from the file notes provided to this service, 
that Capital One issued emails to Mrs W regarding these matters and the email address it 
used was the same address details as Mrs W provided to this service.  
So, while Mrs W says she never received these communications and accepting there were 
postal issues at that time, even so I cant hold Capital One responsible for that. This service 
asked Capital One to see if any telephone calls were received from Mrs W where she 
advised them of a change of address, but it wasnt able to find any related telephone calls, 
nor does its own contact notes provided to this service, show such a telephone call was 
received. So while not doubting what Mrs W has told this service, the only telephone call I 
have been able to listen to regarding her address details, is when Mrs W speaks to an agent 
after receiving the default notice. In this telephone call the agent asks Mrs W if she wants to 
change the address it held on file  but Mrs W says she wanted to keep the address as it 
was.What is important to say is Mrs W knew she had a temporary payment holiday in place and 
when this would end, but I cant see she made any attempt to either make her due monthly 
payments after this time or contact Capital One to discuss her financial position. Its also 
worth mentioning that after the default notice was received by Mrs W, she on more than one 
occasion, mentioned in telephone conversations with Capital One, she had changed her 
telephone details. But I cant see she ever informed Capital One of that, until after her credit 
card account had been defaulted - which would explain why Capital One were unable, prior 
to that, to contact her over the telephone to discuss the arrears.  
Mrs W during one telephone call to Capital One, explains she wasnt able to access her 
online app to check her credit card account, as she had lost her credit card and needed the 
card number to check the details. But this conflicts with what more recently Mrs W has told 
this service, that she did have the credit card - either way, its fair to say if Mrs W did have 
the credit card all along, then she would have been able to access her online app showing 
the position of her credit card account. If not, I can see no reason why Mrs W wouldnt have 
been able to check the position of her credit card account by telephoning Capital One, but I 
cant see she did. What remains important here is, it remains Mrs Ws responsibility to check 
what she owed on her credit card account and to make sure she met the due monthly 
payments. 
Its worth saying that Capital One did show forbearance to Mrs W and actively supported her 
when she found herself in financial difficulties at the time of the Covid pandemic, and I cant 
say that it can be asked to do much more here, given Mrs W failed to contact them after the 
agreed payment plan came to an end. 
Its also fair to say Capital One acted in line with the terms and conditions of the credit card 
account when it placed her credit card account with a debt collection agency, even if Mrs W 
believes it shouldnt have.
So it follows, while Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore 
of Capital One here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman