DRN-1830922
The complaint
Mr S complains that the car he leased on behalf of his business (which I have referred to as 
J) from Ald Automotive Limited experienced issues which Ald Automotive didnt take 
responsibility for.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons
Mr S (on behalf of his business J) entered into a hire agreement with Ald Automotive 
in October 2018 for a new vehicle. His agreement was a customer maintained 
agreement meaning all maintenance (including tyres) was Mr Ss responsibility, 
unless the work was agreed to be covered under the terms of the vehicle warranty.
An issue arose with the vehicle and after investigation he was told the problem was 
with the steering knuckles. It was agreed a repair would take place under the 
warranty, but Mr S was told he would need to pay for replacement tyres first. Mr S 
didnt think this fair as the issue with the tyres was linked to the steering knuckles 
issue. Following Mr S raising his complaint with this service, Ald Automotive agreed 
to cover the cost of the new tyres. Although I note it took a long time for Mr S to 
receive the refund for the replacement tyres I find this resolves the issue raised 
regarding the required repairs.
Mr S had to spend several months trying to get the issue of the repairs to his vehicle 
resolved. He initially raised the issue in November 2019 and the tyres were replaced 
in May 2020. During this period, he said he limited his use of the vehicle due to his 
concerns about the issues. I have considered the comments made by Ald Automotive 
about Mr S not mitigating the situation by replacing the tyres to enable the other 
repair and then claiming this back through the complaints process. However, in this 
case, I find it reasonable that Mr S is compensated for the reduced use he had of the 
vehicle while this issue was being resolved.
The hire agreement had a total contract mileage of 24,000 miles and an annual 
mileage of 8,000 miles. The details recorded when Mr S raised his complaint on 20 
November 2019, suggest a mileage of 9,500 miles. There is then refence to the 
mileage being around 9,000. I have nothing further to support this but accept the 
mileage was around 9,000 in November 2019. This was around 13 months into the 
hire agreement giving a monthly usage of just under 700 miles.   
The invoice provided for the replacement tyres (dated 13 May 2020) recorded the 
mileage as around 11,500 miles. This suggests Mr S only drove the vehicle around 
2,500 miles in the period from November 2019, when he raised his concerns, to May 
2020 when the tyres were replaced. This supports his testimony that he reduced the 
use of the vehicle as much as possible. So, while I appreciate the vehicle was 
available for use by Mr S and he could have replaced the tyres sooner at his own 
cost and then continued with his complaint, I find it reasonable that he is 
compensated for the restricted use he felt able to make of the vehicle.
Our investigator recommended that Mr S be refunded 50% of the payments during 
the period when Mr S was waiting for the repair. I have considered this. Based on the 
information provided Mr S was driving around 40% less while the vehicle was waiting 
for repairs. His loss of use was combined with a loss of enjoyment as he has 
explained he was having to try not to use the leased vehicle when possible. Given 
this I think that a refund of 50% of the rentals to compensate both for the loss of use 
and loss of enjoyment is reasonable. This should be for the period from 20 November 
2019 when Mr S raised the issue with Ald Automotive to 13 May 2020 when the tyres 
were replaced. 
Putting things right
Ald Automotive Limited should refund Mr S 50% of the rental payments made for the period 
of 20 November 2019 to 13 May 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ald Automotive Limited should refund Mr S 
the amount set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman