DRN-3833094
The complaint
In October 2021 Mr B complained to Mobile Money Limited (Mobile Money), trading as 
AutoMoney, to say it shouldnt have sold him a logbook loan as he was struggling 
financially and they were therefore unaffordable. 
What happened
Mobile Money says that it didnt sell Mr B the loan and therefore isnt responsible 
for the sale. It also says that it acquired Mr Bs loan from another company, 
Quickclick Loans Limited and it was that company that had sold Mr B the loan. 
One of our adjudicators, having reviewed the available sale paperwork, agreed that 
Mobile Money wasnt responsible for the sale of the loan.
Because Mr B disagrees the complaint come to me so that I can look at the question of who 
is responsible for the sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive looked at all the available information and evidence, including what the 
parties have told us, to decide whether Mobile Money is responsible for the sale. To be 
clear, Im not looking at the question of whether something went wrong when the loan was 
sold to Mr B. 
Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator that Mobile Money is not responsible for the 
sale of this logbook loan to Mr B. 
Mobile Money took over Mr Bs loan from QuickClick Loans Limited in October 2017. Ive 
seen that when it did so, this didnt include taking over liability for the sale of the loan 
itself. That means that Mobile Money isnt responsible for looking into Mr Bs complaint 
about the way the loan was sold to him. 
Mr B sent us an annual statement which shows the loan is still being administered by 
AutoMoney and Ive seen that a Mobile Money email address and website is included. 
But that isnt enough to show that Mobile Money is responsible for what happened when 
QuickClick Loans Limited sold Mr B the loan. 
In principle, it would still be open to Mr B to look at making a complaint to QuickClick Loans 
Limited, although that wouldnt be something wed be able to help with as its no longer 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. Also, from what weve discovered, QuickClick 
Loans Limited was dissolved in June 2021 and so is no longer trading. Mr B therefore 
wouldnt be able to make a complaint to it about the sale. 
It follows that I dont consider Mobile Money to be responsible for arranging and granting the 
logbook loan to Mr B. Im therefore unable to look any further into the merits of the 
complaint. 
I am sorry that were unable to help Mr B on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision that Mobile Money Limited is not 
responsible for the sale of Mr Bs logbook loan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman