DRN-3998984
The complaint
Mr W complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) provided him with a loan without 
carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr W took one loan from MFC for £400 on 24 May 2022. Mr W was due to make one 
payment of £521.60 on 1 July 2022. Mr W has had some problems repaying this loan and an 
outstanding balance remains due. 
MFC considered Mr Ws complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loan, based on the checks it carried out which included asking Mr W about his 
income and expenditure and carrying out a credit check. After carrying out these checks, 
MFC could see the loan was affordable.  
Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and it wasnt upheld. He concluded MFC 
made a reasonable decision to provide the loan because it had carried out a proportionate 
check which showed the loan repayment to be affordable. He also didnt think MFC needed 
to have verified the information Mr W had provided. 
Mr W said he didnt agree with the outcome, and he asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. Mr W said the outcome for his case was inconsistent with other decisions made 
by the Financial Ombudsman. He also said The fact that you don't see anything wrong with 
a high interest lender providing a loan to someone with my credit file is quite frankly 
alarming
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. MFCs checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ws income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W. As there was only one loan, the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied in Mr Ws case. 
MFC was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay his 
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.
Before this loan was approved, MFC asked Mr W for details of his income, which he 
declared to be £3,200 per month. MFC also says Mr Ws income was validated at the point 
of his application using information provided directly from his own bank. Having carried out 
this check, MFC was satisfied that what Mr W declared for his monthly income was broadly 
accurate. 
In terms of monthly expenditure, there is some discrepancy in the information MFC has 
provided. Part of the table provided to us and what was contained in the final response letter 
says that Total expenditure was £375  which wouldve given Mr W disposable income of 
£2,825 in which to make his loan repayment. 
However, the total expenditure figures seem to ignore the other costs that Mr W declared 
and which MFC says it checked  for example Mr Ws rent. It also said the credit checks  
that I go onto below were used to check Mr Ws credit costs. All of these costs come to 
£1,650 per month. Which still left £1,550 of disposable income each month in which Mr W 
would be able to make his contractual loan repayment to MFC. 
So, whether, I use the total expenditure information, or all the other information in the table 
that MFC appears to have gathered doesnt make any difference to the conclusions I draw. I 
say this because whichever figures are used, based solely on the income and expenditure 
information the loan looked affordable to Mr W. Before this loan was approved MFC also carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
MFC carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one 
to a specific standard. 
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information MFC received may not entirely reflect the 
information Mr W may be able to view in the credit report that he has sent to us. There could 
be for several reasons for this, such as MFC only asking for certain pieces of information 
such as the number of active credit accounts. But what MFC couldnt do is carry out a credit 
search and then not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
So, although I thank Mr W for providing a copy of his credit report, when thinking about what 
MFC saw when it carried out its affordability assessment, Im going to be considering the 
information it received as part of its own credit search. In my view, MFC was also entitled to 
rely on the results it was given as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in 
anyway inaccurate. 
The credit file results didnt show any defaulted so it wouldve been reasonable of MFC to 
believe that Mr W while having a number of credit accounts to service, he was doing so 
without any obvious repayment problems. 
Although, I do accept that from Mr Ws full credit report he has provided does show a 
number of defaulted accounts in 2019 / 2020 this wasnt reflected in the information MFC 
received from the credit reference agency. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led MFC to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr W had provided. So, while Mr W has provided his bank statements, in this case, for a 
loan of £400 it wouldve been disproportionate for MFC to have considered them. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for MFC to have 
relied on the information Mr W provided to show he had sufficient disposable income to 
afford the repayment he was committed to making. There also wasnt anything else to 
suggest that Mr W was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayment would be 
unsustainable for him for any other reason. 
An outstanding balance remains due, and I would remind MFC of its regulatory obligation to 
treat Mr W fairly and with forbearance while coming to a mutually agreeable repayment plan 
to enable Mr W to pay what is owed.  
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman