DRN-1250651
 
The complaint
Ms H complains about a decision taken by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) to reduce her 
account overdraft facility (overdraft) from £1,000 to £200. 
What happened
Ms Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Lloyds had 
done nothing wrong. In summary she said that Lloyds had acted appropriately and the 
decision to reduce the overdraft was a commercial one that it was entitled to make and one 
that it would be neither fair, nor reasonable, for our service to interfere with.
Ms H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions so her complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. However, having done so, I can confirm 
that Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same reasons.
In 1998 Lloyds granted Ms H an overdraft of £1,000.
In mid September 2019 Lloyds wrote to Ms H to say that it was reducing her overdraft to 
£200, effective from mid October 2019.
On receipt of the letter dated mid September 2019 Ms H contacted Lloyds to complain. 
However she was unhappy with the reasons she was given for the overdraft reduction and 
with the suggestion that she was free to apply for an increase if she wanted to.
As pointed out by the investigator, the setting of a customers overdraft is generally a 
decision for a customers bank to make and one that we wouldnt normally interfere with.
But Ive gone on to consider whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
I can see that Lloyds gave Ms H one months notice of its intention to reduce her overdraft, 
that she hadnt used it very often, if ever, over the last 20 years and that she was made 
aware that she could apply for reinstatement of a £1,000 limit, or for that matter, any other 
limit.
So although I can understand that Ms H would have liked her overdraft to have remained at 
£1,000, I think that Lloyds has acted entirely fairly and reasonably in reducing it to £200 in 
the manner that it did and it need do nothing further.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman