DRN-1383325
 
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lex Autolease Limited applied unfair charges at the end of his 
hire agreement. He wants the disputed charges to be waived.
What happened
Mr L tells us that at the end of the hire period the vehicle was inspected and collected. He 
says that Lex later invoiced him for charges relating to damage. Mr L explains that Lex 
initially charged him £811 which was later reduced to £602.  He says he accepts there were 
two items of damage relating to sub-standard repairs and he's offered to pay £240 for these.
But he disputes that any other damage was caused whilst the vehicle was in his possession. 
He also feels the charges are excessive as he's been able to obtain quotes for the repairs 
for less.
Lex told us that the vehicle had been inspected by a trained British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA) examiner. And that the damage had been assessed in 
accordance with BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines. It said it was happy for a customer to 
have the vehicle repaired before collection. But where that didn't happen it applied a fixed 
price matrix in order to ensure consistency.
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said the damage 
which was being charged for fell outside BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines. And he felt 
the charges had been properly applied.
Mr L didn't agree with this outcome. As it's not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman's been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr L would be concerned to be invoiced for charges he hadn't expected 
and considers to be excessive.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
 
Mr Ls responsibility was to return the car in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. These included the following clause: 
19 INSPECTION AND RETURN OF VEHICLE:
(a) "On the termination or expiry of this agreement you will return the vehicle in good 
condition (fair wear and tear excepted).....
(b) for the purposes of this agreement good condition means free from exterior or interior 
damage including dents scratches damaged paintwork caused by any reason other than fair 
wear and tear".
BVRLA guidelines on fair wear and tear are a recognised industry guide which is used to 
provide a consistent approach to the assessment of damage when a vehicle is returned at 
the end of a relevant hire period.
Briefly summarised the disputed areas of damage relate to unsatisfactory repairs to a door 
and quarter panel; a scratch to the left hand rear door; and a scratched alloy on left hand 
rear wheel. Lex has removed other charges which weren't identified upon collection.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive seen good quality colour photographs of the vehicle - supplied by both parties - which 
were taken at or around the time of collection. And I've seen further photographs of the 
vehicle taken when it was delivered to the auction site. The first collection report and the 
later auction site report both identified the scratch to the door and alloy. The unsatisfactory 
repairs aren't in dispute simply the cost of putting things right. 
I'm satisfied on the basis of the photographs and the inspection reports that the items of 
damage for which Lex is charging were present at the time of collection. And that they fall 
outside the BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines. These were outlined in our investigator's 
view and I shan't repeat them here as the parties are both aware of them.
I'm aware that Mr L feels the charges are excessive in respect of those items of damage he 
accepts. And that he obtained a cheaper quote. It's always possible that a consumer will be 
able to obtain a quote for repairs that is cheaper than that invoiced in these circumstances. 
That's because the quote isn't necessarily for repairs which will meet the BVRLA guidelines. 
And to illustrate that point it looks here as if some attempt was made at repairs. But Mr L 
accepts these fell below the required standard. In any event the principal issue is whether 
the charges Lex imposed are fair - not are they the cheapest.
In summary, I find the damage to be outside the relevant BVRLA guidelines and that it was 
present at the time of collection. Having dealt with many cases of this nature the charges 
imposed are, in my opinion, fair and  reasonable and within the usual industry range 
accepted by this service. Accordingly, I'm not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 Stephen Ross
Ombudsman