DRN-3236477
The complaint
Mr N has complained about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) dealt 
with his claim made under a roadside assistance policy.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr N reported a fault with his car to LV that meant he was unable to drive it. He asked LV to 
provide him with a replacement hire car under the cover the policy provides. Mr N was 
contacted by the hire car company who told him that it had no availability for that day. But 
when he went on-line to the same hire car company, it showed that a replacement car was 
available that day from the same depot.
Mr N made an on-line booking for two days car hire with a quoted cost of £173.50. He 
contacted LV and asked that it either arrange with the hire car company for a car to be made 
available, or pay him the £173.50 cost.  LV responded that it would only pay Mr N £60, 
because that is how much it would have cost it to hire the car at the rate it had agreed with 
its supplier (£30 per day).
Mr N chose not to hire the car, so he didnt incur these costs. But he says that instead, he 
took the day off work, allowing his wife to use their other car. Mr N has explained that 
because he didnt have access to a car, he was unable to take his children out on activities 
he had planned for the day. He complained to LV about its handling of his claim.
LV offered Mr N £100 compensation. This represented £40 to reflect inconvenience caused, 
plus £60 for hire car costs it would have incurred for two days hire. LV stated that the hire 
car company uses its business rental fleet to supply it, and it did not have an available car 
for Mr N within that fleet. However, the hire car company also has a separate private rental 
fleet, and it was from this fleet that Mr N was offered a car on-line. LVs stance was that 
policy cover for a hire car is subject to availability.
Mr N brought a complaint to this service. His view was that because the car hire company 
had a car available at his local depot, LV should have covered the cost, even if that was at a 
higher cost than it would pay for a car from the business rental fleet. Mr N asked that LV pay 
a sum of £173.50 to his chosen charity, and £100 to him for poor service he considered he 
had received.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. His view was that the policy did not 
guarantee a replacement vehicle. Because Mr N did not ultimately incur any hire car costs, 
he didnt consider LV should have to pay that amount as compensation. The investigator felt 
that LVs compensation offer was a fair one.
Mr N responded that the policy did not specify that LV was only required to pay hire car 
costs at its preferential rate. He also highlighted that a hire car was available at the local 
branch of LVs chosen supplier, and seemingly the only reason for it not being provided 
under the policy was because it would cost more than LVs preferential rate. Mr N referred to 
a term in the policy relating to a limit of up to £800 to cover a replacement hire vehicle. He 
asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Having reviewed the file, I asked LV to clarify certain points to me. Firstly I noted that within 
the policy terms, LV had referenced section D7. My reading of the policy was that section D7 
related to roadside assistance whilst driving outside the UK. As Mr Ns car had broken down 
in the UK, section D7 did not appear to be relevant to his claim. In response, LV confirmed 
that my understanding was correct.
LV commented that it was two terms in section C of the policy that it considered relevant to 
this claim. One of these states that if repairs to the policyholders car cannot be completed 
on the day that it breaks down, the policy covers: The hire of a replacement car (up to 
1600cc) for up to 48 hours. We will pay the cost of the hire car but you are responsible for all 
other costs or benefits imposed or offered to you by the hire car company.
The other term in section C which LV has referred to states: We cannot guarantee that a 
replacement vehicle will be available.
I noted that the terms under section C do not refer to any limit to the cost of the hire car. LV 
agreed. It also accepted that if Mr N had paid £173.50 for two days car hire, as long as the 
engine size of the car was under 1600cc, it should have covered this cost. But LV clarified 
that it would only have covered the cost of the hire car itself, and so would not have covered 
any additional charges for items such as collision damage waivers or admin fees.
Notwithstanding this clarification, LV stated that, taking into account Mr N did not incur hire 
car costs, it considered the £100 compensation offered to be reasonable.
For further clarification, I note that within the correspondence relating to this complaint, a 
term in the policy relating to a limit of up to £800 to cover a replacement hire vehicle has 
been referred to. But this £800 limit was in respect of replacement vehicle cover when a 
policyholder is driving in certain countries outside the UK, so again is not relevant to the 
circumstances in this claim.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have explained above, LV has now clarified its stance regarding the policy terms it has 
relied on, and it has confirmed that it would have covered car hire costs if Mr N had 
proceeded with his on-line booking. I need to consider how this might affect a fair and 
reasonable assessment of this complaint.
Firstly, I note that LVs offer of £100 was made up of £40 relating to inconvenience caused to 
Mr N, plus £60 based on how much LV would have paid for two days car hire at its 
preferential rate with its supplier. But the cost to LV that it would have paid its car hire 
supplier at its preferential rate is no longer relevant, because LV accepts that section C of 
the policy did not limit the hire costs in this way. My understanding is that LV now also 
accepts that the fact a hire car was available with LVs supplier at Mr Ns local depot means 
that LV should have covered its hire costs, regardless of the fact that it was available in the 
private fleet, rather than the business fleet.LVs stance remains that its offer of £100 represents fair compensation to pay Mr N to reflect 
its handling of his claim. So although the reasoning behind £60 of this sum is no longer 
relevant, LV considers the overall offer is reasonable.
In terms of what I consider represents fair compensation in this complaint, I must take into 
account that Mr N never actually incurred any car hire costs. Mr N has asked that an 
element of compensation be based on the £173.50 hire costs quoted to him. I can award 
compensation for financial loss that a business has caused a consumer when at fault in its 
actions. But in this case, it appears that Mr N was not caused a financial loss by the failure of 
LV to provide him with a hire car, because he did not go ahead and book the hire car, 
incurring the costs himself. For that reason, my view is that it would not be reasonable to 
base any element of redress in this case on the quoted car hire costs of £173.50.
That leaves me to consider what award might be appropriate for any unnecessary distress 
and/or inconvenience that was caused to Mr N by LVs handling of his claim. It is clear to me 
in this case that Mr N has been caused unnecessary difficulties by LV. Under the policy 
terms, because repairs to his car could not be completed on the day that it broke down, LV 
should have supplied Mr N with a replacement vehicle, or covered its cost, as one was 
available at the suppliers depot local to Mr N.
Instead Mr N was left without the use of a vehicle, and he has explained this was on a day 
when he had planned to take his children out at the end of the school holidays. He has also 
highlighted the time he spent in conversations with both LV and the hire car supplier as he 
attempted to arrange a hire car himself. I have carefully considered Mr Ns comments about 
the inconvenience he was caused by LVs errors. Overall, taking into account awards made 
on cases with similar circumstances, my current view is that the compensation offer of £100 
made by LV represents a fair payment in the circumstances of this case.
Consequently, although I appreciate that Mr N may be disappointed with my overall findings, 
at present I consider that LV should not be required to pay further compensation above the 
£100 that it has already offered.
Responses to my provisional decision
Whilst pleased with my conclusion that LV should have covered the quoted cost of the car 
hire at £173.50, Mr N felt my provisional findings didnt sufficiently reflect the position he was 
placed in at the time of the claim. He has pointed out that if he had paid £173.50 to hire the 
car, he would then have been faced with the uncertainty about whether he would be able to 
successfully claim this sum back in full. Mr N says there was the potential that this could 
have caused him financial hardship. He has suggested that my decision should go further in 
recognising these circumstances.
Mr N also said that LV should issue an apology to him. He provided some example wording 
for the apology he would like to receive from LV, and he asked if I could append this wording 
to my decision.
LV stated that it still considers £100 compensation to be appropriate for the difficulties it 
caused Mr N. It confirmed it is willing to apologise to Mr N, but not using the example 
wording that Mr N has provided. LV suggested some apology wording that it considers 
appropriate. It also stated that it does use information it gathers from complaints to help 
improve its service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the further comments Mr N has made about the situation he found 
himself in when told by LV that it would not cover the full car hire cost of £173.50 that he had 
been quoted. I do appreciate that if Mr N had chosen to hire the car at this cost, he would 
have been left with the uncertainty about whether he would be able to claim this amount 
back, and this may have impacted upon his decision about what action he should take.
It is clear to me that as a consequence of its misreading of its policy terms, LV caused Mr N 
unnecessary problems when he was left without access to a hire car. In my view this 
situation should have been avoided, with LV covering the car hire costs. But I consider the 
offer of £100 compensation does adequately reflect the circumstances which arose in this 
case.
Mr N has requested that LV apologise to him using wording that he has written. Although I 
recognise the strength of feeling Mr N has regarding this matter, I do not intend to require LV 
to apologise using the wording that he has drafted. In my view it is generally the case that for 
an apology to be sincere, it will be authored by the party that is apologising. LV has 
confirmed it is willing to send an apology, and it has forwarded an example of what it might 
say. I leave it to LV to send this apology on to Mr N.
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to 
settle this complaint, and my final decision is that this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
I understand that £100 compensation has already been paid to Mr N, and so I do not require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay any further sum.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman