DRN-3299359
The complaint
Ms B complains that Chubb European Group SE has failed to refund her the premiums for 
two travel insurance policies she took out and then cancelled.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive summarised what 
happened.
Ms B purchased a flight through an airline. At this time, she took out a travel 
insurance policy underwritten by Chubb to cover her trip. She was charged a 
premium of £25.14.
She later decided to cancel this trip and the insurance policy.
After that, she booked another flight and a new insurance policy, also underwritten by 
Chubb, to cover the revised trip. This time she was charged a premium of £18.61.
She also decided to cancel this trip and the associated insurance policy too.
Ms B complained to Chubb and said she hadnt been refunded the premiums shed 
been charged on either policy.
Chubb provided evidence to show the premiums had been refunded to Ms Bs 
account with the airline and so it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It pointed 
out that the refunds were absorbed by some additional fees the airline had applied 
for late cancellation of the flights  but this was a matter shed need to speak to the 
airline about. 
Our Investigator agreed so Ms B asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain I can only consider the activities of the regulated business in this complaint, 
and thats Chubb. I cant comment or make findings on the actions of the airline Ms B 
booked flights with.
Chubb has provided evidence to show the two premiums Ms B was charged to cover 
her trips were refunded to the account she has with the airline.
Ms B has provided no conflicting evidence to persuade me this hasnt happened. And 
Im satisfied the amount she was refunded was the same as the premium she was 
charged.
From the evidence its clear the airline has applied a number of late cancellation 
charges to the account and these have absorbed the refunded premiums. But thats 
not something Chubb is responsible for. Ms B may wish to pursue this directly with 
the airline if she feels these have been applied unfairly.
Overall, Im satisfied Chubb has refunded the premiums Ms B was charged and Im 
not going to be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman