DRN-2862951
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Hiscox insurance Company Limited unfairly refused to pay a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Hiscox includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B reported the theft of his classic car to the police and Hiscox. Hiscox appointed loss 
adjusters to investigate the claim. Hiscox later refused to pay it and said Mr B had made it 
fraudulently.
Mr B brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
thought Hiscox had handled the matter reasonably. Mr B didn't agree so his complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it. 
Mr Bs car was taken from the forecourt of a petrol station after Mr B had put petrol in it and 
then locked it. After Hiscox investigated the claim, which included liaising with the police, it 
concluded the theft hadn't happened as Mr B said it had. Mr B said he had the only keys for 
the car and he still had those after the theft.
I've seen CCTV footage of the theft. That shows the thief opening the car door with ease and 
starting it with the speed and confidence of someone who had keys to it. So I can 
understand why Hiscox was concerned that the theft hadn't happened as Mr B said it had. 
Mr Bs suggested that, owing to its age, his cars locks could be picked. But to take the car 
without keys in the manner shown in the CCTV would seem very unlikely. So, on balance, I 
think Hiscoxs decision to decline Mr Bs claim was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr Bs added that the police investigated the matter and were satisfied he wasn't connected 
to the theft. But a prosecution by the police or the Crown Prosecution Service would require 
a far heavier burden of proof than Hiscox need in order for it to fairly decline Mr Bs claim. So 
I don't think the fact that the police aren't pursuing the matter automatically means Hiscox 
was unfair to turn down Mr Bs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman