DRN-3750006
The complaint
Ms P and Mr K have complained about a secured loan they held with Elderbridge Limited.
What Ive decided  and why
In February 2007 Ms P and Mr K took out a loan with a lender Ill call G. They borrowed 
£22,500 (plus a £150 fee) over a 25-year term on a repayment basis. The interest rate was 
10.35% variable, which gave a monthly payment of £215.54.
In July 2016 the loan passed to Elderbridge. There was a period of arrears in 2018/2019, 
and the loan was repaid in November 2021 when the property was sold.
In May 2021 Ms P complained to Elderbridge about the loan. She was unhappy about how 
much needed to be paid back, the interest charged and the remaining balance at that time.
Elderbridge didnt uphold the complaint and so Ms P and Mr K referred it to our service.
Our investigator said we cant look at the original sale of the loan because that complaint 
hadnt been made in time. He considered the remainder of the complaint which related to 
how Ms P and Mr K had been treated whilst in financial difficulties and upheld elements of 
that.
Elderbridge didnt agree and so the case was referred to an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, the findings of which said:
I trust Ms P and Mr K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Ive listened to the calls between Ms P and Elderbridge since March 2018, and it was 
really pleasing to hear how engaged both parties were in the process. Ms P was giving 
regular updates to Elderbridge, and Elderbridge handled the calls with empathy to Ms Ps 
situation.
My reason for listening to the calls was so I could decide if there was a point I felt 
Elderbridge should have offered Ms P and Mr K more support, and if so what I felt that 
support should have been. The actual calls were important in this case, rather than just 
the call notes, as it gives me an idea of the parties understanding of the situation at the 
time, as well as the tone used.
The following calls are key:
19 March 2018 - Ms P said there was a delay in her receiving her pay (she was 
self-employed), but that hopefully it was just a one off and that shed receive it the 
following week. She mentioned that Mr K was out of work, and asked whether there was 
a way to reduce the monthly payments.
29 March 2018 - Ms P said she couldnt pay that month. She was asked if the payment 
was affordable, and she said it wasnt, and shed have to try and borrow it. She was told 
not to exhaust another lending option to make the payment, and the costs of spreading 
the payment over a number of months was discussed. Ms P again asked about the 
possibility of reducing the monthly payments.
19 April 2018  Ms P said she probably wouldnt be paid until the following week, and 
there was a discussion about possibly changing the payment due date.
27 April 2018  Ms P said she still hadnt been paid, and would try to make her loan 
payment by the end of the following week.
21 May 2018  Ms P said she was waiting to get paid again and was hoping to have it by 
Friday. It was also discussed that paying by debit card rather than direct debit was better 
for Ms P and Mr K at that time as it gave flexibility on the payment date.
20 August 2018  Ms P said the monthly payment was due that day, but she was waiting 
to get paid. She anticipated that shed be paid that week, but didnt know when.
28 August 2018  Ms P had just received her pay and Elderbridge was the first company 
she was phoning. She said shed been paid £250 and she needed to pay Elderbridge 
£252, so she had no money left for anything else. She said she hoped she would win the 
lottery, and again asked whether there was any way to change the loan payments.
26 September 2018  Ms P said she was waiting to be paid, and whilst she hoped it 
would be by the end of the week it was hit and miss. She was asked if anyone could 
support her to make the payment, to which she said that all she could do was make the 
payment when she was paid. Ms P said it was difficult as Mr K wasnt working at that time 
so she was trying to pay all the bills by herself, and she was self employed.
9 October 2018  the September payment had been made the day before. Ms P said 
Mr K was out of work due to ill health, and that it was just her income. It was confirmed 
the next payment needed to be made by 20 October.
26 October 2018  Ms P apologised for paying late, and said it was the same situation as 
the previous month in that she is self employed and waiting for people to pay her. She 
said she hoped she be paid within the next two weeks, and so a note was put on the 
account that shed make the October payment by 9 November.
13 November 2018  Ms P said she was unable to make the payment due on the 20th as 
shed not been paid. She said she had no money to eat or anything, and she was just 
ringing to let Elderbridge know that as soon as she was paid, shed make the payment.
20 November 2018  Ms P said she had problems with the payment due last month as 
she was self employed and hadnt been paid. She said she was due to receive some 
money that week, but by then another monthly payment would fall due. She wanted to 
know if she could make both payments together, although she didnt know when it would 
be.29 November 2018  Ms P now owes two monthly payments, but still hadnt been paid. 
She said she was due to receive some money any day and she would make both 
payments when she received the funds. She said she didnt know when it would be. She 
said Mr K was out of work, and that it was stressful with everything falling on her.
I think, by the end of November 2018, Elderbridge should have thought about having a 
more detailed conversation with Ms P about her and Mr Ks circumstances. Thats 
because there are eight months of calls that, whilst Ms P is saying it is a temporary 
situation, indicate a deeper problem as the same issue was recurring each month. By 
September 2018 Ms P had indicated that she was struggling with just her income paying 
the bills, and in November 2018 she said she had no money to eat. In October 2018 
shed said the reason Mr K wasnt working was due to his health, which could have 
indicated this was potentially a longer term issue. Shed also asked on a few occasions 
whether her payments could be reduced to help her.
Whilst Elderbridge did mention looking into a possible temporary concession in March 
2018, this wasnt really pushed forward and explored as I think it should have been over 
the following months. It wasnt until April 2019 that Elderbridge undertook an income and 
expenditure assessment with Ms P, and that showed that her and Mr Ks outgoings were 
higher than their income. 
By the end of November 2018 there were eight months of calls and two missed 
payments, and the situation seemed to be deteriorating with Ms P saying they couldnt 
afford to eat.
I can hear in the calls that Elderbridge was trying to reassure Ms P that as long as she 
stayed in contact then it wasnt looking to take any action and, as Ive said above, I was 
pleased to hear how the calls were handled in terms of showing empathy and 
understanding. But I can also see that Ms P was downplaying matters as she was 
concerned about losing her home, and I think Elderbridge needed to step in sooner to 
undertake an income and expenditure assessment so it could consider what support it 
could offer Ms P and Mr K.
Unfortunately, as an assessment wasnt undertaken at that point I cant say for sure what 
support Elderbridge would likely have offered and whether that would have been 
appropriate. It seems likely, based on the calls and the later income and expenditure 
assessment, that there was no  or very limited  affordability there for monthly 
payments.
As an affordability assessment wasnt undertaken at that time, Ive had to decide what 
support I think Elderbridge ought reasonably to have put in place at that time  that is 
from December 2018. Having done so, due to the lack of information to the contrary and 
based on the likely nil - or very limited - affordability, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Elderbridge to have converted the account to a 0% interest rate at that 
time, on a temporary basis. That would have meant that whilst Ms P and Mr K looked at 
options to possibly improve their situation the debt wouldnt have been increasing month 
on month due to the addition of interest.
That wouldnt have been a long-term solution in this case, and I think it was right that 
Elderbridge had various conversations with Ms P about paying the arrears in 2019. 
Elderbridge and Ms P were in discussions about an arrangement to pay the arrears over 
the remaining term of the loan, and it was left that Ms P would discuss that with Mr K. The 
next discussion about the arrears was a call from Ms P on 6 August 2019 in which she 
said theyd clear the arrears in one go as a relative was going to help them. She said that 
would be a weight off her mind, and adding it onto the debt over the term would have increased the amount due from around £1,000 to around £4,000 (due to the addition of 
interest).
The arrears were cleared on 14 August 2019, and the direct debit was reinstated. The 
payments were then all successfully made (other than Covid payment deferrals, as 
allowed under the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance) until the property was sold and 
the loan was repaid in November 2021.
Having considered everything I think by the end of November 2018 Elderbridge should 
have realised this was more of a problem than Ms P was indicating in the calls and it 
therefore should have stepped in at that time to undertake an income and expenditure 
assessment and assess what support it should put in place. Im also satisfied that it was 
in Ms P and Mr Ks best interests that the arrears were cleared in August 2019 as a lump 
sum, and that they were able to maintain the full payments from that date.
Im minded to say that Elderbridge should have offered support to Ms P and Mr K 
between 1 December 2018 and 14 August 2019 (inclusive), and in the absence of 
information to show a better option I consider that support should have been a reduction 
in the interest rate to 0%. From 15 August 2019 Im satisfied it would have been 
reasonable for the interest rate to revert to the normal charging rate for this account up 
until the loan was redeemed.
I now turn to whether any payment should be made in respect of any distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms P and Mr K in this matter. Ive considered this point very 
carefully and Im currently minded to say that £150 would be fair and reasonable. I say 
this because whilst Im sure it would have been a relief to Ms P and Mr K for the interest 
to be waived for a period of time, I feel that the fact things werent progressed by 
Elderbridge at that time came from a good place in that it was trying to support and 
reassure Ms P. For that reason I feel, whilst a payment is due, it would be lower than that 
initially recommended by our investigator and £150 seems reasonable.
I closed by saying:
Im provisionally minded to uphold this complaint and order Elderbridge Limited to:
Reconfigure Ms P and Mr Ks account as if it had a 0% interest rate from 1 
December 2018 to 14 August 2019 (inclusive). As this would have led to an 
overpayment being made on redemption then that sum should be refunded to Ms 
P and Mr K, plus interest at 8% simple per annum  from the date of redemption 
until the date of settlement.
Pay Ms P and Mr K £150 compensation.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Elderbridge to take off tax from this interest. 
Elderbridge must give Ms P and Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off 
if they ask for one.
I understand Ms P and Mr K have separated so Im minded to say the funds should be 
split 50/50 between them, unless we have independent confirmation in writing from both 
Ms P and Mr K of what alternative split should be used.
Elderbridge confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and, despite us agreeing to a slight 
extension to allow it further time to respond, didnt send any further submissions. Ms P and 
Mr K accepted my provisional findings, just querying a small point:Just wanted to highlight to you, its mentioned that the monthly payment to Elderbridge 
was £215.54 a month but it was higher than that, £252 and I think even £279 at one point. 
Could you check on this please? Just want to ensure the figures theyre working with are 
correct.
I can confirm Im working with the correct figures; the reference to £215.54 in my decision 
was in the background section and refers to the original monthly payment set out in the loan 
agreement in 2007. I understand that since then the monthly payment has varied.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Elderbridge Limited to:
Reconfigure Ms P and Mr Ks account as if it had a 0% interest rate from 1 December 
2018 to 14 August 2019 (inclusive). As this would have led to an overpayment being 
made on redemption then that sum should be refunded to Ms P and Mr K, plus 
interest at 8% simple per annum  from the date of redemption until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Ms P and Mr K £150 compensation.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Elderbridge to take off tax from this interest. Elderbridge 
must give Ms P and Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for 
one.
I understand Ms P and Mr K have separated so the funds should be split 50/50 between 
them, unless we have independent confirmation in writing from both Ms P and Mr K of what 
alternative split should be used.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman