DRN-2968809
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc handled an issue he had with 
a used laptop he purchased.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has provided detailed submissions. Whilst Ive carefully considered everything Mr D 
has told us, I wont be responding in the same detail or to each point he has raised. Instead, 
Ill focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr D says he found a used laptop for sale on a social media website. He says the seller 
asked for cash or a bank transfer, so he asked NatWest which option was safer and he was 
told a bank transfer was. In most circumstances a bank transfer is safer as theres a record 
of it being made. So Im satisfied the information he was given was correct. 
Mr D paid the seller via bank transfer and received the laptop. Unfortunately, it was faulty. 
Mr D was unable to secure a refund from the seller, so he asked NatWest for a refund on the 
basis hed been the victim of a fraud/scam. NatWest didnt think it was responsibility for 
refunding Mr D. Im satisfied its correct. This is because:
- Mr D didnt pay the seller using a NatWest debit or credit card, so he didnt have any 
recourse/protection through either a chargeback scheme or Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974; and 
- Mr D made (and therefore authorised) the payment and he received the goods he 
wanted to purchase. So this payment doesnt take the form of a fraud/scam NatWest 
would be responsible for refunding. Instead, Mr D has a civil dispute with the seller.
Mr D is dissatisfied with the customer service he received when he called NatWest about 
this matter. He says he was treated like a fraudster. NatWest couldnt find a recording of the 
call, so it gave Mr D the benefit of the doubt and paid him £20 compensation by way of 
apology. Ive listened several call recordings, including the one where Mr D says he was 
treated like a fraudster (it was later found). Im satisfied the call handlers were polite and 
professional. I dont agree Mr D was treated like a fraudster. In my view he was asked 
security questions  as I would expect of a bank  which Mr D declined to answer. I see no 
reason to fairly require NatWest to compensate Mr D further.
Overall, Im satisfied NatWest has treated Mr D fairly and reasonably, so Im not going to 
require it to take any further action in relation to this complaint. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with NatWest  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman