DRN-3320604
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) started to charge them for 
their packaged bank account, when they say it had been previously agreed that they would 
not have to pay the monthly fee.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have explained that they were told that if they moved a separate business 
account to Lloyds, they would not have to pay for a Premier account and would instead 
receive the account for free. This agreement was known as a fee waiver.
In 2021, Lloyds said it would begin to charge Mr and Mrs W for their Premier account. Mr 
and Mrs W queried this. Lloyds explained that all fee waivers for all customers were to be 
withdrawn and that they would be charged for their account going forward. Lloyds offered 
three months of account fees to represent the distress and inconvenience that losing the fee-
waiver benefit would cause them.
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators considered 
what Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds had said and provided and they felt that Lloyds need not do 
anything to put matters right.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has not been able to provide the terms and conditions from the time that the account 
was taken out. Mr and Mrs W have highlighted the account summary and current account 
important information that they found looking at the historical archive of Lloyds website. It 
mentions that the account services and facilities of the account can be changed but it does 
not, in their opinion, give Lloyds the right to change the fundamental basis of the Premier 
Banking account. The part that they have highlighted says the following:
We may vary the service and facilities offered on the Premier Banking Service current 
account giving notice to you either in a newspaper, branch, on-line or letter if and when this 
is necessary or appropriate to do so. Some reasons for this might include
: if the change does not affect your rights or obligations;
 to comply with legal, fiscal or regulatory requirements;
 to rectify errors, omissions, inaccuracies or ambiguities;
 for any reorganisation within the group of companies which we are a part of; or
 to cover service differences when we change computer systems and other processes, or 
having regard to market practices and overall customer demand
I should explain though that the information highlighted is not the full terms and conditions 
from the point of the sale of the account it is summary. That said, I am satisfied that the 
account services and facilities mentioned that can be changed would include the fee-waiver 
as it was a feature of the account. 
I also note that whilst examples of when these changes may occur were listed, it did not say 
that these were exhaustive or that they were the only reasons that a change may occur. Mr 
and Mrs W have mentioned the part about the change not affecting their rights or 
obligations, but again this is an example given as to why a change might occur. It is not a 
guarantee that no change will occur that does affect their rights or obligations.
Additionally, the earliest full terms and conditions that I have been able to obtain (from 2005) 
explain that Lloyds can vary the fee structure or introduce new fees with sufficient notice. 
Overall, I think that it is more likely that the terms and conditions from the time of the sale 
also wouldve contained a similar variation clause, as it is a standard term in most accounts.
So I think that Lloyds did have the provision to change the fee waiver. As to whether it is fair 
for Lloyds to do this, it is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it 
provides and also which ones to discontinue. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs W are dissatisfied by this, especially as they have been a 
customer of Lloyds for some time, I am unable to say that Lloyds decision to remove this 
feature of the Premier account is one they are unable to make. Im also mindful that when 
Lloyds withdrew the fee-waiver feature in 2021, they did so for all account holders, not just 
for Mr and Mrs W. So I dont think Mr and Mrs W were unfairly denied access to a fee-waiver 
when the decision to withdraw it was made.  
However, when making such changes to accounts, Lloyds is obliged to give notice to its 
customers. From what Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds have provided, it seems that Lloyds did 
give Mr and Mrs W reasonable notice of the withdrawal of the fee-waiver.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W chose to keep the account after this point. However, Mr and 
Mrs W were not obliged to keep the account and it was their choice to do so. So, I dont think 
it would be appropriate to ask Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs W any further account fees they 
mayve been charged since the final response letter, as I think they were fully aware of their 
options at the time.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I am unable to uphold this complaint or ask that 
the fee waiver be re-applied. So I dont require Lloyds to do anything in relation to this 
complaint.
I note that Mr and Mrs W will not be happy with this decision as they strongly believe that 
Lloyds are unable to alter their contract with it. But I should highlight that this service is an 
informal dispute resolution service who needs to decide cases on what is fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of the complaint. Additionally, we must base our decision on the available evidence and considering what is 
most likely to have happened where evidence is unavailable or disputed. In this case we do 
not have the full terms and conditions from the point of sale and only the important account 
information from what is available archived online, alongside an account summary. Based on 
what we do have and based on what I think is likely contained in the terms and conditions 
from the point of sale, I think that Lloyds did have the provision to change the features, 
benefits and fee structure of Mr and Mrs Ws account provided notice was given. I think this 
notice was provided. So I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
This decision represents our last stage in our process and there is no further recourse of 
appeal or to discuss the merits of this case further. That said Mr and Mrs W are able to 
pursue this matter elsewhere if they so wish.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman