DRN-2531833
The complaint
 Mr L complains about end of contract charges when his hire purchase agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance Limited ended. 
What happened
 In February 2016 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline.
Mr L voluntary terminated his agreement in August 20187 and the car was inspected for 
wear and tear. Startline later asked him to pay charges for a missing second key and 
damage to one of the alloy wheels.
Mr L is unhappy about the charges. He says he was only provided with one key for the car 
when he acquired it and that there were already scratches on the alloys.
In its final response, Startline said the charges for the missing key and the alloy wheel were 
fair.
Mr L remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she thought it was likely that Mr L had only 
been provided with one key when he acquired the car. 
Startline didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement. This says that the car should be returned in 
good condition and that damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA, and these are used by 
finance companies to decide whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. 
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  amongst other things  a missing 
second key and scuffs to the LHF alloy.
Mr L doesnt dispute that theres no second key.  He says he was never provided with a 
second key. I can see that Mr L acquired the car as a used car with around 73,000  miles on 
the clock. Hes provided a document which was provided to him at the point of supply which 
suggest that only one key was supplied. Its not uncommon for used cars to be supplied with 
only one key. Im persuaded by Mr Ls evidence here, which supports what he says about 
only being provided with one key. Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that Mr L 
was only provided with one key. So I dont think Startline has acted fairly in charging for a 
second key.
In relation to the damage to the LHF alloy, I can see from the inspection report that there is 
some damage. Mr L says that the alloys were already scuffed when the car was acquired by 
him, but he also accepts that further damage has been caused during the time hes had the 
car. Im satisfied that theres damage to the LHF alloy which goes beyond fair wear and tear 
having regard to the relevant guidelines. Based on what Ive seen. I think its more likely that 
Mr L has caused this damage. I think Startline has applied the charges for the alloy fairly. 
Putting things right
I think Startline should refund Mr L the charges hes paid for the missing second key.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must refund 
Mr L the charges hes already paid for the missing second key.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman