DRN-2205441
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to the service he received 
when ringing in response to a text message he received.
What happened
In April Mr B received a text message asking him to contact NBW. As Mr B held a current 
account, savings account and credit card account, he was unsure as to which account the 
message related. Mr B rang NBS and was put on hold for a very long time. He thought the 
way the agent spoke to him was rude. Mr B learned from the advisor that a balance transfer 
he had made had taken him over the limit on his credit card account and he wanted to know 
how that had been allowed to happen.
NBS agreed that the service Mr B received in terms of being kept waiting for so long had 
been poor. They said they would send him £50 in respect of that and reimburse any call 
charges on receipt of evidence proving the same. 
They didnt however agree that their agent had been rude or abrupt. They did agree that 
their agent told Mr B hed receive a call within five working days, which had in fact been 
incorrect, as what he should have been advised was that he would get an acknowledgement 
letter if NBS couldnt resolve his complaint within that time. NBS said they would send Mr B 
a further £25 in respect of that.
With regards to the credit limit, NBS said they allow a customers credit limit to be exceeded 
by up to 10%, which is one of their policy decisions based on customer feedback. They felt 
they hadnt made an error in this respect and that it was always a customers responsibility 
to ensure they managed their accounts within the set limits.
Mr B was unhappy with NBSs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that NBS had dealt with the 
complaint fairly and that the amount of compensation offered by NBS for the identified poor 
service was enough to put things right. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B has raised further complaints about the closure of his accounts and the 
service he received from NBS after he brought this particular complaint to our service on 19 
May. For the sake of clarity, I am not dealing with those complaints as they are being dealt 
with separately. This has been explained to both NBS and Mr B by our investigator.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know Mr B went into a lot more detail. Im going 
to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the 
nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The accepted facts in relation to the complaint I am now dealing with are that Mr B did 
receive a text message from NBS asking him to contact them. NBS agree their service was 
poor as they kept Mr B on hold for a very long time. They also agree that he was given the 
incorrect advice about a call back within five days.
The reason why Mr B received the text message was because his credit card account was 
over its limit. This was as a result of a balance transfer he undertook. NBS have accepted 
that they allow accounts to exceed their credit limit by up to 10% and they say that is a policy 
decision based on their members feedback. I also understand NBS explanation as to why 
the text message appeared unclear, that being because the information in it was deliberately 
limited as a security measure. 
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check that a business followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account set out that the responsibility for ensuring that a 
customer does not exceed their limit rests with them. When, in Mr Bs case his account 
exceeded its limit, it was therefore up to him to restore it to within the limit set. So, I cant say 
that NBS have acted unfairly here; they allowed the balance transfer in line with their policy 
and then then asked him to bring it back within limit.
Mr B has also said that the agent he spoke to was rude, had a tone and was patronising. I 
have listened to that call and I must disagree. The advisors were all very professional and 
courteous, and I detected no rudeness of any description.
NBS has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it compensated Mr B 
with £75. I know Mr B didnt think that was enough to put matters right, so Ive given this 
some further thought. Mr B was on hold for a long time and he was given inaccurate advice 
about the length of time to make the call back.
NBS have offered to refund any proven call costs which Mr B may have had, and I think that 
is fair. Taken together with the £75 compensation offered and paid, I think that is a fair and 
reasonable resolution.
So, although Mr B will probably be disappointed with my decision, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already paid Mr B £75 to settle this complaint, and I think 
that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman