DRN-2662754
The complaint
 Mr H complains on behalf of his business, B, that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly placed a 
fraud marker against B closed Bs bank account causing serious repercussions for B.
What happened
 Mr H held personal and business accounts with Barclays. 
Mr H is the director of B.
This decision will focus on Mr Hs complaint regarding Bs account. Mr Hs complaint about 
his personal account has been addressed in a separate decision. 
In January 2020, a payment for £3,000 was made into Bs account from another bank, which 
I will refer to as Bank A. Mr H then made a number of transfers of those funds. 
Bank A then contacted Barclays, indicating that the £3,000 payment it had made wasnt 
genuine, but had been made fraudulently. Barclays blocked all of Mr Hs accounts and 
decided it needed to look into how Mr H was operating his accounts. Following its review, it 
placed a fraud marker against B with CIFAS, the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System. 
And it decided to close Bs account immediately. 
Mr H complained to Barclays. He explained that he hadnt known the funds paid into Bs 
account were fraudulent. He told the bank that B had received the funds as payment for 
goods it had provided to a customer. He said because of the marker he was having difficulty 
opening another account, so B wasnt able to trade and lost out on business. 
Barclays accepted what Mr H said about the funds and removed the marker on 9 April 2020. 
The marker was in place for just over a month. Barclays also offered Mr H £450 - £300 for 
the loss of business and £150 because it had taken more than 10 days to review Bs 
account. Mr H said this wasnt enough to put things right. He said he wasnt able to file Bs 
accounts due to Bs account being closed and was liable for a £750 fine, he had difficulty 
opening accounts for B so lost out on business, and his mental health had suffered because 
of Barclays actions. So, he brought Bs complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Bs complaint. She said that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong 
when it blocked and closed Bs account. But she agreed that Barclays shouldnt have loaded 
a marker against B and that it had suffered inconvenience and financial loss as a result. She 
thought the banks offer of compensation wasnt fair and said Barclays should also pay 
compensation to B for loss of profits, which she worked out amounted to £1,021.21 along 
with £150 for the delays. Barclays agreed. Mr H didnt. He says the amount of compensation 
offered doesnt adequately reflect the amount of distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Cifas marker
The marker that Barclays recorded against B is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  in this case using an account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, Barclays isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H on behalf 
of B is guilty of a financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion of concern. CIFAS guidelines say:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; and
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police
What this means in practice is that the bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Bs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr H was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was or might be an illegitimate payment. A 
marker should not be registered against someone who was unwitting, there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate dishonesty.
From looking at the evidence, I accept that the payment of £3,000 which was paid into 
Bs business account was fraudulent  in the sense that the holders of the account from 
which it was made didnt authorise it or were being tricked into making the payment. Their 
own banks would have investigated the payment before reaching that conclusion and 
contacting Barclays. Of itself, however, that doesnt mean that B was involved or knew the 
funds were fraudulent. 
Mr H has explained that B received the payment in exchange for goods B provided to a 
customer  in other words B was an unwitting beneficiary of fraudulent funds. And hes been 
consistent in his explanation, which I find plausible. I havent seen any evidence that Mr H 
committed a criminal offence.  And Ive not seen any evidence that Barclays thought this. So, 
whilst I can understand the banks concerns, Im not satisfied that B was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving fraudulent funds. And I dont believe placing a marker against B was 
proportionate based on what happened. Nor am I convinced Barclays have met the industry 
best practice guidelines when placing this marker. 
Im pleased to see that Barclays removed the marker as soon as it had spoken to Mr H and 
accepted it shouldnt have placed the marker against B. The marker was removed on 9 April 
2020, so it was in place for just over a month. Barclays has offered B £300 for the impact the 
marker had on B. So, Ive looked at whether this offer is fair and reasonable.
 
I know Mr H has said that his mental health has been impacted and hes been caused a 
good deal of upset. But, when considering whether or not Barclays has done enough to put 
things right, I need to consider the impact Barclays mistake had on B, the limited company, 
rather than Mr H himself, who is the director of the company. Thats because a limited 
company is a separate legal entity from the people who run it. I can tell a business to make 
an award for inconvenience in this situation, but only if it was experienced by the company 
itself, rather than the people bringing the complaint. 
Mr H says B lost money because the marker made it difficult for him to open a new bank 
account and run his business. And hes provided evidence of declined bank account 
applications to support what hes said. I can see that the CIFAS marker was the reason B 
was declined accounts. So, Ive thought carefully how this impacted B. In doing so, Ive looked at Bs finances and its bank statements to work out Bs financial loss based on its 
gross profit for the previous 12 months. According to the statements Bs gross profit would 
have been £1,021.21 for the period the marker was in place.
 
I can see that the investigator has also asked Mr H on more than one occasion to provide 
evidence of any lost business  such as contracts. But he hasnt provided anything. So, in 
light of this, I agree with the investigator and think its fair that Barclays compensate B for its 
financial loss and based on his previous gross profits this amounts to £1,021.21.
block and closure of account
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Barclays has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Barclays may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Barclays to block Bs account. Barclays has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats in line with what most banks would do in the same 
situation, and it enabled Barclays to consider how best to react to the report it had received 
from the other bank about the £3,000. So, whilst I accept this caused B inconvenience, I 
cant say Barclays treated B unfairly when it decided to block its account. 
However, I can see that Barclays told Mr H that the review would take around 10 days. But it 
took more than twice as long. Barclays accepts there were delays and have apologised for 
the inconvenience this caused B. Its also offered £150 compensation. Having looked at all 
the information, I think this is fair and reasonable compensation to pay in reflection of the 
inconvenience caused to B. So, whilst I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed, I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything more. 
Mr H says that the delay reviewing Bs account meant he wasnt able to file his annual 
accounts with Companies House. So, he incurred a late penalty fee of £750. And hes sent 
in a notice to support he was late in sending information.  But having looked at the 
information Mr H has provided it appears Mr H was due to file Bs account on or before 
3 February 2020, which was before Bs accounts were reviewed. Barclays didnt block Bs 
account until 9 February 2020, so there was nothing stopping Mr H complying with the 
request as he still had access to all the information he needed. So, I cant hold Barclays 
liable for any penalty Mr H might be facing. 
Mr H wants Barclays to reopen Bs account. But its generally for banks to decide whether or 
not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular 
customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a 
bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account 
closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclays closed Bs account immediately. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view that 
was reasonable given the banks concerns about how Mr H was operating Bs account. So, it 
was entitled to close the account as it has already done. And I wont be asking the bank to 
reopen Bs account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Pay Mr H on behalf of B £1,021.21 for the financial loss caused to B as a result of 
incorrectly applying a CIFAS marker and
Pay Mr H on behalf of B £150 compensation for delays when reviewing Bs account
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman