DRN-3355388
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax caused them financial 
loss because it made errors in issuing a mortgage offer on their new property.
What happened
In early 2020, Mr and Mrs C lived in a property and decided to move to another property and 
let the original one out. In July 2020 Halifax issued a mortgage offer for the new property. Mr 
and Mrs C then negotiated a lower price and Halifax issued an amended mortgage offer but 
there was an error in the offer which meant that they couldnt exchange on the new property 
on the planned date of 21 August 2020. Whereas Halifax had amended the amount of the 
mortgage offer, it hadnt amended the purchase price to reflect the lower price.
Mr and Mrs C arranged a new date to exchange contracts on 24 August. The amended offer 
wasnt with Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor by that date and Mr C had to go to a Halifax branch to 
sort it out. I understand late in the day Halifax told Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor that the offer had 
been amended and the mortgage offer was emailed on the following day. Mr and Mrs C 
exchanged contracts on 21 September 2020 and completed at the end of the September. In 
the meantime, Mr and Mrs C had organised tenants for their old property but as Mr and Mrs 
C were still in it, the tenants pulled out and it remained vacant until the summer of 2021. So, 
since September 2020 Mr and Mrs C had a vacant property and were paying mortgages on 
two properties. Halifax accepted they made errors and provided £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Halifax also covered the energy bills, service charges 
and council tax for the original property up until March 2021. Halifax paid the following: 
£476.98 t an energy supplier
£844 for council tax
£225 and £500 for service charges
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt feel that 
Halifax had caused Mr and Mrs C to lose their tenants and that its offer of compensation was 
fair. Mr and Mrs C disagreed and asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it Mr and Mrs C had organised an exchange of contracts on the 21 August 
which they hoped would allow them to move to a new house on 29 August. They also had a 
tenancy agreement in place agreed with tenants on 11 August 2020 with a deposit to be paid 
on 26 August and then the tenants would move into their old house as Mr and Mrs C moved 
out on 29 August. But this plan didnt get off the ground because there was an error on the 
mortgage offer with the wrong purchase price that had to be amended and so wasnt 
available for the hoped-for date of exchange of contracts. The error seems to have been a 
typo where the wrong purchase price was inserted.
Mr and Mrs C believe that Halifaxs actions by issuing an amended incorrect mortgage offer, 
which meant that they couldnt exchange contracts on 21 August 2020 or on 24 August 
2020, caused them to lose the tenants to the property who would have moved in on the 29 
August  and as a result they lost the tenancy income for the following year. 
I have to look at whether Halifax should be responsible for this loss.  Halifax is a lender 
whom Mr and Mrs C asked to provide a loan to buy their new house. Halifax agreed to do 
that and issued a mortgage offer which Mr and Mrs C accepted and they indeed bought that 
house. Mr and Mrs Cs issue is that the offer wasnt produced on time to allow contracts to 
be exchanged by 24 August, as a result of which they couldnt move out by 29 August. In 
order to find that Halifax was responsible for Mr and Mrs Cs financial losses I would have to 
find that Halifax had agreed to have a mortgage offer available by a particular date and that 
if it didnt have the mortgage offer available by that date that Halifax knew that Mr and Mrs C 
would be unable to let their existing property as a result.
The main problem facing Mr and Mrs C in respect of his complaint, is that Halifax didnt 
commit itself to have that offer available by a particular date. Theres nothing in writing from 
Halifax committing itself to that effect. Further its  not clear to me from my inspection of the 
file that Halifax was aware of the tight timetables that Mr and Mrs C were working to in 
respect of the signature of the tenancy agreement, the date of deposit and the date of the 
tenants getting occupation. But Ive no evidence that Halifax agreed to meet those deadlines 
or bound itself to produce the mortgage offer by a particular date so that Mr and Mrs C would 
be able to meet their timetable. I appreciate that Halifax would be expected to work to a date 
so that Mr and Mrs C would be able to exchange contracts if they have notice of it but thats 
not the same as committing itself to meet a particular date and accepting the consequences 
of not meeting it.
It also seems that Mr and Mrs Cs financial losses flow from a tenancy agreement entered 
into at the beginning of August that they were unable to perform. But Halifax wasnt part of 
the contract, had no input into it or was asked to approve it or committed itself to make the 
mortgage money available in time for that contract to be performed. I cant see how it would 
be fair to make Halifax responsible for Mr and Mrs Cs losses because they couldnt meet 
the terms of that tenancy agreement.
Mr and Mrs C should expect a reasonable service from Halifax and if it failed to do so they 
would expect to be compensated for any disappointment suffered by a poor service.  But if 
Halifax didnt bind itself to a particular date - and as a new mortgage offer hadnt yet issued, 
Halifax wasnt yet in a contractual relationship with Mr and Mrs C - I dont agree that it would 
be fair to hold it responsible for the financial consequences of Halifax missing that date. 
It seems that Mr and Mrs C were working to a particularly tight timescale with little flexibility if 
the date of contract exchange was missed. Mr and Mrs C appear to have contracted to let 
out the house before they had a contract to buy a new house. That would leave them 
exposed if for some reason there was a problem with the purchase. Not all completions or 
contract exchanges take place when they are meant to. There can be problems with title or 
problems with the chain or, as in this case, the amended mortgage offer doesnt arrive on 
time. A degree of flexibility is generally required. It seems from reading the file that the 
purchase may not have been able to complete in any event at the end of August even if the 
correct mortgage offer had arrived on the 21st or 24th. There is a reference on the file to 
difficulties with the conveyancing chain and some problem with title. I accept that had 
completion been able to occur on 29th, the chain may have resolved itself and the title issue may have been resolved. But, from reading the file I cannot be definitive that if the correct 
mortgage offer had issued by 21st or 24th that completion would in any case have occurred 
by 29th.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Cs tenants may have needed to move in by the 29th. I have 
read Mrs Cs email dealing with the tenancy contract and how she felt bound by that. On 
reflection, it might have been sensible for them to have had some flexibility in the tenancy 
negotiations given that delays in completion are not uncommon. But that was a matter 
between Mr and Mrs C and the prospective tenants which Halifax wasnt involved in. 
So, whilst I accept that all this must have been very disappointing to Mr and Mrs C and they 
should be compensated for any disappointment caused by Halifax, as Halifax didnt  commit 
itself to meeting Mr and Mrs Cs  timetable, I cant fairly require Halifax to meet their financial 
losses. Im aware of the several issues that Mr and Mrs C were dealing with at the time that 
would have made the failure to complete the transaction in August extremely distressing for 
them as Mrs C sets these out clearly in her email of February 2022. Ive looked at Halifaxs 
offers of compensation contained in Halifaxs letters of 18 September and 24 December 
2020 considering those issues and I believe those offers represent fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs C suffered. I understand that other offers may have 
been discussed over the phone, but the matter is before me now and I approve the offers in 
that correspondence and dont require Halifax to pay anything further.
I realise that this doesnt make up for the loss of rent or mortgage payments or other 
expenses on the existing property which Mr and Mrs C believe Halifax should be responsible 
for but as I said above, I cant fairly require Halifax to make up those losses. As I set out 
above, its simply not Halifaxs responsibility. I note that Mr and Mrs C appear to be suffering 
from financial difficulties subsequent to this complaint. My decision is related to the events 
surrounding the problem of the mortgage offer. If Mr and Mrs C are in financial difficulties 
with their mortgage, Halifax should be positive and sympathetic to that situation. If Mr and 
Mrs C have cause to complain about that, they should in the first instance make their 
complaint to Halifax. But in respect of this complaint, for the reasons set out above, I cant 
fairly uphold it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman