DRN-1519421
 
The complaint
Mr S says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr S bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided Mr S's PPI wasn't mis-sold and I've set out my reasons below: 
I think MBNA made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. Mr 
S applied for the credit card by post, and he completed the application form to show 
that he wanted the PPI cover. There was an option to decline the cover next to the 
box that Mr S ticked. There was nothing on the application form to suggest that 
taking the PPI was a condition of getting the credit card. So I think Mr S wouldve 
realised he had a choice about buying the PPI.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for him. But even if MBNA had recommended the policy, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable for Mr S, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr S has said he was entitled to sick pay from his employer. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to Mr Ss employer benefits and wouldve meant he could use 
those benefits to cover other expenses. So I think Mr S wouldve had some use for 
the policy.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr S would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Which means MBNA doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
    
 
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr S.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman