DRN-3161099
The complaint
Ms G, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information received from Morses, here is a brief loan table. 
Loan Start Date End DateCapital 
AmountInterest 
amount Term Repayment 
amount Weeks Live
1 23/10/2019 06/05/2020 £300.00 £210.00 34 £15.00 28
2 22/01/2020 02/07/2020 £300.00 £210.00 34 £15.00 23
3 07/07/2020 06/07/2021 £800.00 £560.00 34 £40.00 52
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that Morses had done 
anything wrong for loans 1 and 2. But he thought that Loan 3 should not have been 
approved by Morses for Ms G. 
Morses responded to agree in relation to the first two loans. But for loan 3 it disagreed. It did 
not think that there was evidence to show that the loan 3 repayment of £40 a week was such 
a high percentage of her income that there was a significant risk that Ms G would not be able 
to meet the repayments. Morses said that it had verified her income externally with credit 
reference agencies, it had recorded her household outgoings as well as her other credit 
commitments, and Morses said that left her with a disposable income of £81 a week. So, the 
£40 a week was less than half of that figure. 
Morses also took issue with the percentage figure our adjudicator had used  16% of her 
weekly income  and Morses said it did not consider that excessive. 
Morses said that Ms G had maintained a good payment history on loans 1 and 2 and did not 
think it could have done more before approving loan 3. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable but I do not consider this to apply for Ms 
Gs case. 
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Gs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms G received our adjudicators view and the response through her representative was that 
she did not disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And Morses has agreed 
too about loans 1 and 2. I wont be making a decision about this lending as I do not need to, 
but they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms G had with Morses and they are loans 
I will take into account when considering the other loan she took.
I have read Morses submissions and reviewed the information it took from Ms G. A 
significant factual change between loans 1 and 2 and when Ms G applied for loan 3 was that 
her declared income had halved. And I have seen this from Morses own records submitted 
to us. 
Here is a duplication of part of their records: 
Loan CRA 
Income 
CheckedIncome Expenditure Disposable 
IncomeNet 
Weekly 
OutgoingNet 
Disposable 
Income
1 £517.55 £517.55 £340.00 £177.55 £340.00 £177.552 £502.77 £502.77 £370.00 £132.77 £370.00 £132.77
3 £250.00 £250.00 £169.00 £81.00 £169.00 £81.00
I note that Ms G had told Morses she had lost her job in November 2020 but that was 
several months after loan 3 was approved. So, I dont consider that relevant when 
considering Ms Gs circumstances around the approval date for loan 3 as the job loss, if 
correct, post-dated the loan approval. So, I have not taken that information into account. 
Reviewing figures provided by Morses, that same spreadsheet indicates that her weekly 
outgoings had reduced as well as her income. That same spreadsheet showed that Morses 
recording of Ms Gs rent cost had reduced considerably from £105 a week for loan 1 to £150 
a week for loan 2 to £40 a week for loan 3. 
I note that Morses has described using Office of National Statistics (ONS) figures for some 
of the entries: we used figures from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) and pre-
populated minimum figures for expenditure which included rent, council tax, utilities, 
insurance, transport, groceries, media and childcare.
Morses has said it had taken steps to verify her income and had seen her credit commitment 
history using the credit reference agency data. Copies of those results have been sent to 
me. 
Morses has said it has not been provided with any evidence which shows Ms G was unable 
to sustainable meet their weekly repayments; however if this is presented we will be happy 
to review.  
Having read all Morses details and submissions to us to defend the complaint, my view is 
that on the one hand, Morses said it verified Ms Gs income and felt comfortable using ONS 
figures for her rent and other outgoings. And on the other hand, Morses is saying it has seen 
no evidence Ms G couldnt meet her repayments. 
Morses did not seem to think it was required to ask her about that sudden and significant 
drop in income (it said it had verified) when she was applying to it for an £800 loan (loan 3). 
That was much higher than the previous two loans she had been approved for. 
And if it used ONS statistics for Ms Gs rent at £40 a week when her other submissions had 
been £105 or £150 a week then I think the responsible approach would have been to have 
used her own previous submissions on the rental cost rather than ONS figures. Rent rarely 
reduces by such a degree. And at the very least Morses ought to have asked her about that 
rental cost even if it felt on confident ground about her income  having verified it. And using 
the lower of the previous rental cost figures of £105 a week, that would have increased her 
outgoings by about £65 a week which would have reduced her disposable income to around 
£15 or £16 a week which was either too low to repay loan 3 and/or was too low to be the left 
over income Ms G had each week.  
So, I dont think that Morses did enough before lending.
Our adjudicator indicated that in his view the amount of Ms Gs income being spent on the 
Morses loan had increased to around 16% and this was likely because the repayments had 
increased to £40 a week and her income had dropped a great deal. That alone, for me is not 
a reason to uphold the complaint about loan 3. But that 16% of income being used to repay the Morses loan 3, combined with the 
inadequacy of Morses acting on the information it had been given which were very different 
figures for income and rental costs that for the previous two loans, leads me to think that  
on its own figures  it ought to have appreciated that Ms G could not stretch to £40 a week 
to repay loan 3. 
I uphold Ms Gs complaint about Loan 3. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms G at loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms G loan 3. 
Having seen the Statement of Account, Ms G seems to have paid this off. 
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms G towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 3, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms G the total of A plus B.
D) Morses should remove any adverse payment information from Ms Gs credit file about 
loan 3. If Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the 
same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman