DRN-4417640
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) Plc (Toyota) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Toyota. He paid a deposit of £3,500 and the agreement was for £31,245 over 49 months; 
with 48 monthly payments of £489.42 and a final payment of £15,615. At the time of supply, 
the car was around five years old, and had done 47,528 miles.
Shortly after being supplied with the car, Mr B experienced a fault with the headlights  they 
would turn off while in use and hed need to turn off the car and wait some time before 
turning it back on before the lights would work again.
The supplying dealership attempted to repair the car on three occasions without success. 
And theyve ordered the parts they believe will fix the fault, but these parts arent currently 
available so a date for the repair of the car cant be confirmed.
Mr B was supplied with a courtesy car. However, hes unable to transport his dogs in the 
courtesy car, which he needs to do for his work  the car that was supplied to him in January 
2023 was fitted with a specific boot liner that would allow him to transport his dogs. So, Mr B 
has said the courtesy car couldnt be fully used, which caused him some inconvenience.
Toyota acknowledged the issues and offered Mr B £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
hed been caused. Mr B wasnt happy with this, as he didnt think it recognised that he 
couldnt use the courtesy car hed been supplied with. So, he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator was satisfied the evidence showed there was a fault with the car, and this 
made it of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. And she was also satisfied that the 
dealership and Toyota had accepted liability for this fault.
The investigator explained that, as Mr B needed to transport his dogs for a part-time night 
job he had, the courtesy car wasnt suitable for his needs. And she said the dealership were 
aware of Mr Bs needs, as theyd fitted the liner to the car supplied to Mr B in January 2023. 
Whats more, as the fault with the car hasnt been fixed, and as this adversely affects driving 
in the dark (which Mr B would need to do for his night job), hes also being inconvenienced 
on an ongoing basis while waiting for the repair to take place.
So, the investigator said that, in addition to the £200 Toyota had offered, they should refund 
him £89.42 a month (plus statutory interest), for the three months he was in possession of 
the courtesy car, as this didnt fully meet his needs.
Toyota didnt fully agree with the investigator. While they didnt dispute the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B, or that they should pay him £200 
compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused; they thought hed been kept mobile 
by the supply of a courtesy car. So, they didnt think they should refund any of the payments 
hed made.
Because Toyota didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Toyota are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Toyota can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr B to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr B took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Toyota to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there was a fault with the headlights on the car, nor that this 
fault was present when the car was supplied to Mr B. As such, Im satisfied that I dont need 
to consider the merits of this issue within my decision. Instead, Ill focus on what I think 
Toyota should do to put things right.
Putting things right
There are two elements that need to be considered when looking at what Toyota needs to 
do to put things right. And Ill deal with the courtesy car first, as this is the point of contention.
The car has been in for repair for a total period of three months since it was supplied to Mr 
B, and he was provided with a courtesy car to keep him mobile during this period. Because 
of this, I think its only fair that he pays for this usage.
However, there were some issues with the courtesy car that meant Mr B wasnt able to use 
this fully. When Mr R was supplied with a car by Toyota, this included the fitting of a specific 
boot liner that allowed him to transport his dogs. Not only did Mr B want the facility to transport the dogs, but his dogs were also necessary for his part-time night job. And its not 
disputed that he wasnt able to transport his dogs in the courtesy car.
As such, Im satisfied that Mr Bs usage of the courtesy car has been impaired. Had this 
been for just a few days, then I think this could be encompassed within the offer of 
compensation Toyota made. However this wasnt for a few days, but a total period of three 
months. Which caused Mr B some significant inconvenience. So, I think its only fair that 
Toyota refund some of the payments Mr B has made to reflect the impaired usage of the 
courtesy car.
The investigator has recommended a refund of £89.42 a month for the February, June, and 
August 2023 payments to reflect the impaired usage. Given the overall circumstances, Im 
satisfied this fairly reflects the impact on Mr B, and I see no compelling reason not to adopt 
this as part of my final decision.
Turning now to the fault on the car supplied by Toyota. While this was a sporadic fault, as it 
was a headlight issue it affected driving at night. And, as Mr B was a night worker, using his 
car for this, Im satisfied he was adversely affected by this fault, and by the need to 
repeatedly take the car back to the dealership for repair. Whats more, its my understanding 
that the car hasnt yet been fixed, and the parts to do this are still on back order.
Toyota have offered Mr B £200 for the inconvenience caused to him by the issues with the 
car they supplied to him. This is in line with what I wouldve directed had no recommendation 
been made. So, Ill also be adopting this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, Toyota should:
refund the part-payments in line with my findings above;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr B made 
the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr B an additional £200 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Toyota to take off tax from this interest. Toyota must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint about Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
Plc. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman