DRN-1295330
 
The complaint
Miss W has complained about loans she took from Gain Credit LLC, whilst trading as 
Lending Stream, (Gain Credit or the lender). Miss W says Gain Credit lent to 
her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss W was given three loans by Gain Credit between May 2018 and January 2019. The 
loans were all instalment loans to be repaid over six months. Miss W has repaid loans 1 and 
2 but loan 3 remains outstanding.
A summary of Miss W's borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date repaid Amount Instalments Maximum 
Repayment
112/05/2018 23/10/2018 £100.00 6 £42.40
216/11/2018 05/04/2019 £150.00 6 £54.00
330/01/2019 Outstanding £350.00 6 £168.91
 
Miss Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think Gain 
Credit had been wrong to give the loans to Miss W. But Miss W didnt agree and asked for 
an Ombudsman to review the matter. So the complaint has been passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Gain Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss W could repay 
the loans in a sustainable way. These checks could take into account a number of different 
things, such as the loan amount, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors that 
might indicate that Gain Credit should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish 
whether continued lending was sustainable for Miss W.
Such factors include:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter. I am not upholding Miss Ws complaint and I will explain why.
Gain Credit says it carried out some checks before it gave each loan to Miss W. This 
included asking Miss W for details about her income and regular expenditure and carrying 
out some credit checks before it agreed to the first loan. Ive seen a summary of the results 
of the checks that Gain Credit carried out and they dont show anything around the time that 
the loans were agreed that I think should have caused Gain Credit any additional concerns 
about lending to Miss W.
The amounts that Miss W needed to repay in respect of each of her three loans were 
relatively small compared with the disposable income she had declared. I think the checks 
Gain Credit carried out during its lending relationship with Miss W were most likely to be 
reasonable and proportionate - given the amount it was lending to her each time, in 
comparison with her income, and the number of loans agreed (3). 
Miss W has told us that she had other debts and took out a number of other loans at the 
time. Shes also provided bank statements and other information from around the time she 
took the loans from Gain Credit. Miss W thinks that Gain Credit ought to have been aware of 
her difficult financial situation when it carried out its checks. I appreciate that Miss W might 
have had real difficulties repaying her loans from Gain Credit. But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that she told Gain Credit about the full extent of her debt or other borrowing, and its 
not something that what I consider to be proportionate checks uncovered at the time.
Miss W has told us she doesnt understand why this complaint is not being upheld, when this 
Service has upheld a similar complaint shes made about other borrowing, from around the 
same time that she took the loans from Gain Credit. Id like to reassure Miss W that I have 
looked carefully at all the information she's provided, but I have to make my decision based 
on evidence given about the specific circumstances that surround this complaint and not in 
relation to other, unconnected complaints. 
Miss W repaid her first loan from Gain Credit early and took her second loan about three 
weeks after paying off loan 1. Loan 3 was taken nearly two months later. I appreciate that 
loan 3 was agreed whilst loan 2 was still running, and the amount borrowed with loan 3 
increased. But this was still a relatively early stage of Miss Ws lending relationship with Gain 
Credit. And from the evidence I've seen, there was nothing to suggest to Gain Credit that 
Miss W was not managing her repayments for loan 2, when it agreed to provide loan 3. And 
given the repayment amounts, what Miss W had told Gain Credit about her circumstances 
and her borrowing history with this lender, I dont think it would have been proportionate for 
Gain Credit to carry out the kind of checks on Miss Ws financial situation that would have 
been needed in order to show that the lending was unsustainable - before each of the three 
loans were agreed. I dont think greater checks were appropriate at the time, so Gain Credit would not have been aware that Miss W might have difficulty in repaying her loans in a 
sustainable manner.
Having carefully considered all the evidence provided to me, and reflecting on what is most 
likely to have happened in the circumstances, I am not upholding Miss Ws complaint. 
I would like to take this opportunity to remind Gain Credit of its obligations to treat Miss W 
positively and sympathetically in any discussions about loan 3, which I understand is still 
outstanding. I think that Gain Credit should also try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement with Miss W in respect of monies owed. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I do not uphold Miss W's complaint about Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16th June 2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman