DRN-3445565
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way in which Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has administered 
his pension plan. In particular he complains that annual fund management charges have 
been deducted in monthly instalments, and that Aviva altered one of his pension investments 
without his authority.
What happened
Mr B started a pension plan with Aviva in 2015. The plan receives regular contributions from 
both Mr B and his employer. Mr B is able to choose the investment funds into which his 
pension savings are placed.
When Mr B first started the pension plan Aviva sent him some introductory information. That 
explained to Mr B that the annual fund charges would be paid monthly by Aviva taking units 
from each of the funds in which he was invested. But Mr B changed some of his investments 
in 2020. He says that at that time he was sent information by Aviva about the new funds. He 
says that information replaced what he had been sent when he first started the pension plan 
and simply stated that Aviva would take an annual management charge to cover the cost of 
running his policy.
Aviva says that one of the investment funds that Mr B was using closed in the early part of 
2021. It says that it sent an email to Mr B advising him of that closure and asking that he 
choose a replacement investment fund. Since Mr B didnt reply to that email Aviva says that 
it placed that part of Mr Bs pension savings into a default investment fund.
Mr B says his previous instruction to Aviva was that it should only correspond with him by 
post. So he says it is unreasonable to send him an email containing such important 
information, and that is why Aviva received no response. 
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that the 
wording on the fund factsheet issued in 2020 altered the way in which Aviva should collect 
the annual management charge. And he was satisfied that Aviva appropriately informed 
Mr B about the closure of the investment fund and sought his direction on an alternative 
fund. So he didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong, or that the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There are two distinct matters that Mr B has complained about  the way in which Aviva 
collects its annual management charge, and the reinvestment of some of his pension 
savings. I will deal with each in turn.
When Mr B first started his pension policy Aviva sent him some general information about 
how the plan would operate. And Aviva says that Mr B should have been given some 
additional information by his employer. I dont know whether Mr B received that additional 
information, so in this decision I am only relying on the information Mr B was sent by Aviva.
In that document was a lengthy section regarding charges. I think it helpful to replicate below 
the wording that relates to the annual management charge that is the subject of this 
complaint. It says;
Well charge you a percentage of your fund value each year. The amount is shown on 
your key facts information, which weve sent to you separately. We take charges from 
your plan each month by taking units from each of the funds you initially invest in.
So I think that wording is clear. Although the charge is based on the value of Mr Bs pension 
savings each year (and therefore is an annual charge), it will be collected monthly by Aviva. 
And the terms go on to explain that the charges will be funded by Aviva deducting some of 
the investment units held in Mr Bs pension plan. I think it is important to note that this 
information isnt provided in relation to any specific fund, but relates to the general operation 
of Mr Bs pension plan.
Mr B changed some of his investments in 2020. And, at that time, Aviva sent him factsheets 
about the funds into which hed now placed some of his pension savings. Those factsheets 
concluded with a section about charges. The relevant part of that wording says;
Annual management charges  We take an annual management charge to cover 
the cost of running your policy.
Mr B contends that the wording on the fund factsheet should be seen as an addendum to the 
terms and conditions he was sent when he first took the plan in 2015. He says the new 
wording suggests that a single charge will be taken annually, and so Aviva is causing him to 
lose out by taking the charge in twelve monthly instalments.
I dont agree with Mr B that the fund factsheet replaces the terms and conditions he was 
originally sent. I think the information it contains merely restates that original information, and 
confirms that an annual management charge will be taken. The fund factsheet doesnt 
provide any information about how, or when, that charge will be collected. So I dont think it unreasonable to conclude that Aviva should continue to take the charge as it had previously 
- in monthly instalments.
Aviva has provided us with details from its systems of the communications options that were 
presented to Mr B when he started to use the MyAviva system to access information about 
his pension savings. It shows he was presented with two communications options  either to 
receive information online only, or to receive information by post and online. Aviva has 
shown that Mr B chose the second option.
I think it is first important to note that neither option provides the post only option that Mr B 
says he had put in place. So I must conclude that his recollections of that selection are 
incorrect. And I dont think that the option chosen by Mr B requires Aviva to communicate 
with him by both post and email on each occasion. Instead my interpretation would be that 
Mr B has told Aviva that he is happy for it to use either method when sending him 
information.
In the original information that Aviva sent to Mr B it told him that, from time to time, it might 
be unable to offer investment funds that had previously been available. It told him that, 
where possible it would provide 30 days notice of those changes. And that it would provide 
details of the available options at the time.
Aviva says that it sent an email to Mr B when it learned the fund in which some of his 
pension savings were invested was being closed. It says it has no record of that email being 
returned undelivered, so it assumes that it was safely received. As it didnt receive a 
response from Mr B, in accordance with its terms and conditions, that part of his pension 
savings were moved into a default investment that had been chosen to closely match the 
closed fund.
I can understand why Mr B was disappointed and concerned that part of his pension savings 
were invested into a fund that he hadnt chosen or authorised. But it seems to me that Aviva 
did send him the required notice of those changes. And when it didnt get a response, it 
reasonably implemented its default arrangements. So I dont think it did anything wrong here 
either.
It appears that much of Mr Bs concerns arise from a lack of detailed information about his 
pension savings and the relevant changes being made, both to pay the management 
charges, and showing the changes in his investments. I understand why he wants additional 
information from Aviva, and am pleased to see that Aviva has said it can supply that level of 
detail on request. But the general information that Aviva sends out to all policyholders 
appears compliant with the relevant regulations, and will have been agreed by the FCA. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Aviva to tailor its general communications to 
the individual requirements of each of its customers.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr B. But I dont think that Aviva has 
done anything wrong. I think it has acted reasonably in continuing to deduct its annual 
management charge in monthly instalments. And I dont think it was unfair for it to transfer 
part of Mr Bs pension savings to its chosen default investment when he failed to respond to 
the information it sent about the closure of one of the funds. I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman