DRN-3925821
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wrongly transferred money out of his 
ISA when he told them that he had moved abroad.
What happened
Mr W took out an ISA with Santander while he lived in the UK. He moved to another country 
in February 2021. In May 2021, he completed a form which Santander sent him. He ticked a 
box on that form which confirmed that he was Not resident in the UK for Tax Purposes, and 
stated that this had been the case since 1 February 2021. 
Santander says that this meant that all payments from the tax year in which he became non-
resident (ie 2020/21) needed to be refunded to him from the ISA, as he was no longer 
eligible to make payments as a non-resident. It relies upon guidance from HMRC, which it 
says confirms this position. Santander transferred this money to Mr Ws current account.
In particular, Santander draw my attention to the following excerpts from HMRCs guidance 
on the point:
If the investor declares in-year that he is not resident, all subscriptions to an account  
made in that year must be removed from the ISA. These cannot be reinstated after the year 
end if the investor later establishes they were, in fact, resident.
Under the new residence rules, from 6 April 2013 an individual is either UK resident 
(regardless of whether split year treatment applies) or not resident for the whole of a tax 
year. The individual can determine their status by using the RDR3: Statutory Residence 
Test.
If the investor informs the manager that they left the UK in an earlier tax year and became 
made in tax years in which they were non-resident must be removed from the ISA
Mr W says that Santander is not correct. He says that HMRCs guidance means that he was 
entitled to make payments to his ISA during 2020/21, but that he was not entitled to make 
further payments in the years following. He says that the payments which have been 
removed from his ISA ought to be reinstated to it.
Our investigator considered that Santander had misapplied the HMRC guidance. They 
thought that Mr W was entitled to make payments until the end of the tax year during which 
he left the UK, and that his funds ought to be reapplied to the ISA, and any missed interest 
made up by the bank. They thought that Santander ought to pay Mr W £250 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Santander did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The facts are generally agreed between the parties, and I am satisfied that the accounts 
given are accurate. The question is whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in 
removing the funds from Mr Ws ISA, and refunding them to his current account, as it did. 
There was nothing in the terms and conditions of the account which applied directly, and so I 
have considered the HMRC guidance.
I have set out brief excerpts of the relevant guidance above, but I have considered the 
guidance generally, together with everything that the parties have said about it.
One of the requirements for making payment to an ISA is being resident in the UK. While 
there are additional ways to satisfy this requirement, to the relevant guidance here refers to 
a Statutory Residence Test, under which Mr W was plainly resident in the UK until February 
2021 as he met the fundamental requirement of being in the UK for 183 or more days. As 
that test sets out clearly, there is no need to consider any other tests in relation to that 
question.
The guidance also sets out that, under the rules in place since 6 April 2013, a person is 
either resident or not for the whole of the tax year. Whether they are, or are not resident is 
answered by the Statutory Residency Test. Based on what Mr W has told us, he can be 
considered a UK resident for the purposes of making payments to an ISA for the whole of 
the tax year 2020/2021.
There is some potential tension between this position and another section of the guidance, 
which states:
If the investor declares in-year that he is not resident, all subscriptions to an account  
made in that year must be removed from the ISA. These cannot be reinstated after the year 
end if the investor later establishes they were, in fact, resident.
This is one section upon which Santander relies, and this is the action that it took. But I dont 
think its interpretation of this in the circumstances is a fair one. Mr W at no point made an 
in-year declaration that he was not resident for the tax year 2020/2021. His declaration was 
made in May 2022 and simply said that he didnt believe he had been a UK resident since 
February 2021. On the face of it, Santander would be entitled to have acted on that 
information in good faith. But I dont think that doing that and then being inflexible when Mr 
W had provided more information has led to a fair outcome here.
Santander sent the covering letter and form which Mr W completed, and it was responsible 
for the wording used in these. By ticking the box that he did, Mr W declared that he was not 
resident in the UK for tax purposes. At the time, Mr W didnt believe that he was for the 
relevant tax year, based on how Santander asked the question. But Santander had not 
asked him whether or not he was resident in the UK within the meaning of the Statutory 
Residence Test, which was the relevant question for the purposes of ISA payments here. 
Nor did Santander explain that it would reconsider his ISA subscriptions for previous years in 
light of any declarations made in the context of this declaration for the current tax year.
Had Santander been clearer about what it was asking and what the implications would have 
been  Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Mr W would have given more 
consideration to his overall position in the relevant tax year at the time and the previous one, 
seeking guidance from the Statutory Residence Test. I then think its more likely than not 
that he would have told Santander what his actual position was  which is that he could be 
considered a UK resident for the purposes of the 2020/2021 tax year.
Putting things rightThis being the case, I dont think the rules Santander has referred to state that it cant, or 
shouldnt, reinstate the relevant subscriptions in the very particular circumstances here. So 
when I consider this, alongside all the circumstances of this complaint  I think itd be fair 
and reasonable for Santander to transfer the funds which were removed from his ISA back 
into it. It ought then to add any additional interest which would have been paid had the funds 
been left in place.
Mr W has been put to a good deal of distress and inconvenience by the banks mistake. I am 
satisfied that an additional payment to him of £250 properly reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Santander UK Plc must:
1. Return the funds to Mr Ws ISA from his current account, having arranged with him a 
mutually agreeable way in which the payment can be taken from him;
2. Calculate the amount of additional interest which would have accrued had the funds 
not been removed from the ISA, and apply that sum to Mr Ws ISA; and 
3. Pay Mr W £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman