DRN-1865141
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
In 1997 Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Lloyds. At the same time they were sold a 
PPI policy. The policy covered Mr H only. The policy covered the mortgage repayments 
against Mr H not being able to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. If Mr H 
had lost his job or became too unwell to work the policy could pay a monthly benefit for up to 
12 months per claim.
The policy initially cost 18.08 per month. But was designed to cover the total mortgage 
repayment so when Mr and Mrs H took a further advance in 2002 the premiums increased to 
£35.85.
An adjudicator from this service didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I realise Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed with my 
decision so Ill explain my reasons:
Lloyds hasnt got copies of all the paperwork that was completed at the time of the 
mortgage. This isnt unusual and its understandable because it has been 23 years since the 
sale took place. Mr and Mrs H have been able to supply us with some documentation 
including the original mortgage offer. Where there is limited information, I will make my 
decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence 
available, what both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Mr and Mrs H have told us they cant recall the PPI being discussed at all when they 
arranged the mortgage.
From experience I think the paperwork used at the time of the sale would have given          
Mr and Mrs H a choice about whether to take the PPI. And I think its unlikely a policy of this 
type could have been set up without an application of some form as the insurer would 
require details of the cover and the person being insured.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer from 1997 and I can see it shows details of the PPI policy 
including the original premium and that Mr H was the person covered. So if the PPI had not 
been discussed I would expect Mr and Mrs H to have questioned its inclusion on the mortgage offer. And I also note the premiums continued to be paid until 2013 and would 
likely have appeared on Mr and Mrs Hs annual mortgage statements.
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs H were most likely of the policy and made aware the 
PPI was optional. And I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  
although bearing in mind the meeting took place 23 years ago I can understand why they 
cant remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
I say this for the following reasons:
The policy was set up to cover Mr H. From what Ive seen he wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, for instance he didnt have any medical conditions 
that he wouldnt have been able to claim for. So hed have been able to make a claim if hed 
have needed to.
Mr H couldnt recall if he would receive sick pay from his employer of for how long it might be 
paid. But this particular PPI policy could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per 
claim, which is likely to have been longer than any sick pay would last. So, I still think Mr and 
Mrs H would have found it useful, especially if Mr H had become unable to work for a 
prolonged period of time.
The policy would also have paid a monthly benefit if Mr H had lost his job. Meaning he could 
use any redundancy pay for other living expenses and costs at would likely be a difficult 
time.
I am aware Mr H had a pension he could have relied on if he couldnt work, but I think Mr 
and Mrs Hs total household income would likely still have decreased if Mr H could not work. 
So, I still think they would have found the policy useful if Mr H lost his job or became unwell. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out. And it seems like it would have been 
useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
The policy sold to Mr and Mrs H automatically adjusted the premiums and level of cover so 
that the mortgage repayments were covered. Mr and Mrs H have said they were not made 
aware of the increase in premiums in 2002. However, the premiums would most likely have 
appeared on Mr and Mrs Hs annual mortgage statements for many years. To be clear, in 
this decision Ive looked at whether policy was mis-sold by Lloyds in 1997 and Ive not found 
that it was. If Mr and Mrs H remain unhappy at the way the policy was administered by the 
insurer over the years they should contact the policy insurer in the first instance.
All of which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds have paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman