DRN-2856445
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Herbert & Webster Ltd (H&W) managed and invested the funds 
contained in his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr D had a SIPP. In November 2018 he discussed with his financial adviser, H&W, about 
how he wished to develop some land he owned and add this to his SIPP in order to raise the 
required finance. In order to facilitate this, Mr Ds investments were sold and held within his 
SIPP in cash. But this advice process took several months longer than Mr D wanted, so in 
November 2019 he raised the required finance in another way, meaning the funds within his 
SIPP were no longer needed. They remained uninvested and held in cash. He asked H&W if 
this was a good time to reinvest.
Over the following months several attempts were made by H&W to contact Mr D about 
reinvesting his funds. But there was no response from Mr D until he sent a message on 
28 February 2020.
On 3 March 2020 H&W reinvested his funds.
But given the emergence of the Coronavirus pandemic Mr D had concerns about the 
decision to reinvest at that time as his funds had lost value. He complained to H&W in 
May 2020 that it shouldnt have invested when it did, and it needed to compensate him for 
the resultant loss in the value of his funds.
In its final response letter, dated 3 July 2020, H&W upheld his complaint. It said that it hadnt 
followed its standard process for investments, as it hadnt received an explicit instruction 
from Mr D to invest the funds. So it shouldnt have invested until such an instruction was 
given.
In order to settle the complaint, H&W offered to redress any loss to the fund by comparing its 
value at the time of investment, to its value on 30 June 2020. It calculated this loss to be 
£2,936.23. H&W said it would pay Mr D £2,348.98 as this amount, if paid into his SIPP, 
would attract 20% tax relief, so would equate to the full amount of £2,936.23. It also offered 
Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
But Mr D wasnt happy with this response, so complained to our service. 
Our Investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think H&W needed to do anything. 
They thought the process of obtaining planning permission for the land, and then the 
administration and tax-adherence requirements made the process complex and costly, and 
so consequently potentially lengthy. As regards the decision made by H&W to reinvest 
Mr Ds funds, although H&W had said it hadnt followed its process, our investigator thought 
the wording used by Mr D had given H&W a mandate to invest the cash in his SIPP on his 
behalf, so H&W hadnt done anything wrong. As a result our Investigator thought the offer it 
had made was more than reasonable.
Mr D replied that H&W had said the re-finance of his land so it could be invested in his SIPP 
was easy, but it had taken them over five months to find out how to do it. And the reason 
hed not responded to H&Ws emails and calls was because he was angry with them. But he 
wanted to know what H&Ws best offer in resolution was.
H&W confirmed the offer of redress it had previously made as a goodwill gesture was still 
available. But Mr D didnt accept this. He said that as H&W had admitted it shouldve waited 
for an explicit response to whether he wished to reinvest, and it had pressurised him to act, 
he wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. But he also wanted the 
Ombudsman to review the terminology used within H&Ws letter, and the coercive manner 
he said it had used when it repeatedly asked him if he wanted to reinvest.
As Mr D hadnt accepted the offer H&W had made, and had asked for an Ombudsman to 
determine a fair outcome, H&W withdrew the offer of redress, as it said it had made it as a 
gesture of goodwill in an effort to resolve the complaint.
So the matter has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to address what Mr D has said about being pressurised to act, and the 
coercive manner he said H&W had used when asking him to reinvest. These are new 
complaint points which havent been put to H&W. Should Mr D wish these to be considered 
he will need to make a new complaint to H&W, so it has an opportunity to respond. As a 
result I will not address these issues in this decision.
But having considered everything else, I agree with the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The advice process.
When considering the process of adding the proposed site development to his SIPP, Ive 
looked at the timeline from Mr Ds initial instruction to H&W, until he informed it he no longer 
had need for the finance. Given the complexities of the request, and the communication and 
the activity that both Mr D and H&W had to undertake, I dont consider there were any undue 
delays caused by H&W. The formal instruction was given by Mr D in March 2019, and his 
funds were de-invested into cash in April 2019. I can then see H&W sent an email to Mr D in 
June 2019 explaining the current position, what was needed, and included a questionnaire 
from the environmental officer which he had to complete and send, including copies of the 
plans or planning permission. This email was acknowledged by Mr D but I cant see it was 
replied to.
The next contact Ive seen is in November 2019 when H&W emailed Mr D to say his funds 
were still held in cash, and was it still required or would he prefer to reinvest. Ive seen an 
email reply from Mr D sent the same day which reads:
dont need the cash now and forgot all about it. Is it the right time to buy or is it worth 
waiting for downturn in prices?
Having considered the above I cannot reasonably say that H&W caused any undue delay to 
the process. Ive also considered whether H&W shouldve chased a response from Mr D 
within the five months, but I dont think this was its responsibility. H&W was advising Mr D on the process he had to follow, and Im satisfied it advised him properly. It set up Mr Ds fund 
to be in a position to do what he wanted and told Mr D what he needed to do. It would not be 
reasonable to say it was H&Ws responsibility to ensure Mr D replied in a timely manner. 
And in any event, Mr D had decided to raise the funds he required in a different way, without 
informing H&W. 
The decision to reinvest
Mr D has complained that H&W invested his funds at the wrong time, and as a result they 
lost value due in the market volatility caused by the pandemic. So I need to consider whether 
the actions taken by H&W prior to investing were reasonable. And Im satisfied they were. 
Firstly, I need to acknowledge that H&W has said it didnt follow its standard procedure, 
which requires an explicit instruction from a client in order to invest their funds. And I can see 
that this is a reasonable requirement. But I also think it was reasonable for H&W to invest 
Mr Ds funds when it did. I think this because Ive looked carefully at the email chain between 
Mr D and H&W when reinvestment was discussed, and I can see Mr D said the following on 
28 February 2020:
Would you mind waiting until the market bottoms out and starts the upturn then 
reinvest as you see fit.
This was a particularly volatile time for the markets, and I think the wording of Mr Ds email 
reflects this. I also think it reflected his desire to leave the timing of his reinvestment to H&W, 
and this was a mandate to reinvest on his behalf. 
And H&W emailed him on 2 March 2020 saying:
Might be best to pull the trigger today tbh, I dont think anyone has a clue where the 
markets are going at the moment?
And followed this up on 3 March 2020:
I have reinvested, although we dont know what will happen this will get you back in 
the markets. Any issues with this just let me know.
I am also satisfied that it acted in accordance with his investment objectives and attitude to 
risk. Ive seen a copy of the suitability report which was completed in September 2017 for 
Mr D by H&W when it was advising him on his pension provision. Under the heading 
Objectives was the following paragraph:
You contacted me recently as you don't feel your current pension arrangements are 
offering the best environment for growth and would like to look at the possibility of 
consolidating them and having them managed correctly, while taking on a more 
adventurous investment strategy.
We agreed that we would also review your funds with regards to the underlying 
investment funds and strategy and whether they were suitable for you. Your overall 
objective in this regard is to achieve growth on these funds in line with your attitude 
to risk, in preparation for your retirement or the possible purchase of land for 
development in the future.
Mr Ds attitude to risk was recorded 4 out of 5 and Moderate to Adventurous. This was 
described as follows:You are prepared to take a medium degree of risk with your investments in return for 
the prospect of improving longer term performance. Short term capital protection is 
not important to you and you are willing to sacrifice some long term protection for the 
likelihood of greater returns. A typical Moderate to Adventurous investor will be 
invested in equities but with other assets included to provide some diversification. 
There may be a small amount of specialised equities within the portfolio, which focus 
on a particular sector of the economy or relate to a particular market or industry. 
Specialised equities can boost longer term returns but are associated with more risk 
than standard type equities.
Ive not seen anything which leads me to believe Mr D disagreed with either the description 
of his objectives, nor his attitude to risk. 
So for Mr Ds pension funds to remain uninvested for longer than was necessary would not 
be meeting his financial objectives. And Ive not seen anything which would lead me to think 
that his attitude to risk had changed significantly. So reinvesting him at the time H&W did, 
with the objective of achieving long term gains, was not unsuitable.  
So although H&W didnt follow its own process strictly to the letter, I do think it acted fairly 
and in Mr Ds best interest. And any losses which were incurred could not have been 
reasonably foreseen and so dont make the decision to reinvest at that time unsuitable. 
So, having considered all of the above, I do not agree H&W acted unfairly or unreasonably 
and so do not require them to do anything.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman