DRN-3871832
The complaint
J Limited (name anonymised), referred to as J, complains about Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited trading as Hargreaves Lansdown, referred to as the business.  
In short, it says:
It doesnt agree with how the business calculated the average cost of units and 
believes that the calculation is incorrect because it doesnt consider the sale of units. 
As a result of the incorrect cost and gain/loss figures, it had to recalculate the correct 
figures for each asset held at year-end for the last six years, at considerable time and 
effort.
To put things right, it would like the business to review and correct the methodology 
used to calculate the average cost per share. It would also like redress for the time, 
effort and costs incurred doing its own calculations. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Unless its the case that the information provided wasnt clear, its not for us to tell a 
business how it should run its affairs, especially in terms of the information provided 
and calculations conducted. 
The business provided an average cost of holding. This was calculated in the way it 
was explained on its website and in the investment reports. This information is 
accessible and available for J to see. 
The business provided data for J to do its calculation. The average cost of holding is 
provided to all customers for indicative purposes. The method is clear and not 
misleading. 
The account is execution only, and after each transaction the business provided a 
contract note showing the cost or amount realised. So, J had the relevant information 
relating to their account to produce the calculations in the form they require. 
The business shouldnt have to change their method of calculation or provide a 
bespoke calculation just for J. 
The costing explanation is clear and available for J to see. But just because J wants 
it in another format  for business purposes  doesnt mean that the business has 
done anything wrong.     
J disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
The investigator hasnt reviewed the appropriateness of calculating the average cost 
of holding on the businesss website. By not doing so, the investigator is saying the 
business can calculate this in any way it wishes. 
The business is using an average costing method which it doesnt agree with.  
Using its example, if one buys 2000 shares at £1, sell them at the same price, then 
buy them back at £2. Applying the businesss calculation, would show that a profit of 
£1,000 has been made, which is unreasonable and wrong.  
Despite what the investigator says about being content with the businesss 
explanation on its website, the calculation isnt fully documented. 
The businesss explanation is that The average cost calculation is reset if you sell 
the entirety of a holding; any future purchases in the same stock then ignore previous 
purchases in the cost calculations. However if you sell only part of a holding (even if 
you leave just one unit invested) all previous purchases will continue to be taken into 
account in cost calculations if you buy more units in the future. However, this is not 
stated on the businesss website, and its calculation doesnt work correctly in all 
situations. 
It doesnt agree with the investigators explanation that the average cost of holding is 
provided to all customers for indicative purposes. Its like saying all gain/loss figures 
are provided for indicative purposes  implying these are rough figures. 
It is disappointed that the investigator wouldnt agree that the business should 
change its calculations or provide a bespoke calculation, although it has never asked 
for the latter. 
It is happy that the business has selected the average costing method, but its 
applying it in a flawed manner. In other words, its not following the method correctly. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
The method used by the business to make calculations, matched its description of 
the method. 
There could be alternative calculations, but this doesnt mean the business has done 
anything wrong. The business can be contacted for further explanation if necessary. 
Although J would like the calculation done in a different way, it doesnt mean the 
businesss current method is inappropriate. 
J states that the business couldve chosen the first-in-first-out method, the last-in-first-out 
method or one of several other methods. Each of these methods is correct  different 
methods give different answers. But the businesss method is mathematically incorrect. 
Neither the business, nor the investigator understands their method. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what J says, I dont think the business 
did anything wrong by refusing to apply a different method of calculation. I understand that J 
had to re-calculate in a different format, and did so for its own business purposes, but that 
doesnt mean the business has done anything wrong. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling J has about this matter. It has provided submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope it wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by J, and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case  Im 
not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I do so for the following reasons:
I note from various correspondence that J agrees with the following which I think is 
helpful:
othe Cost of Holding is calculated as the average unit cost price multiplied 
by the number of units. I also agree that the average unit cost price should 
remain the same upon the sale of units. Therefore, the Cost of Holding 
reduces upon the sale of units as your methodology provides for.
However, using its own methodology, J also says: 
oHowever, if all units are sold, the Cost of Holding should be set to zero (for 
the purpose of further calculations). The average unit cost should be 
calculated by taking the prior (from the prior transaction) Cost of Holding plus 
the value of a new purchase divided by the new number of units. This means 
that if all units were sold and then a new investment in that stock occurs, the 
prior Cost of Holding (zero) would have no effect on the new Cost of Holding. 
The new Cost of Holding would simply be the cost of the newly reinvested 
transaction. This approach works for any amount of units sold.
I appreciate that there were other methods of calculation, and probably more suited 
for Js purpose. But this doesnt mean that the calculation method used by the 
business was wrong or mathematically incorrect so far as its methodology is 
concerned. I note the business says:
oWe appreciate that there are various other methods of calculating the cost of 
an investment, which could be used and aren't incorrect, but we must 
establish a useable method for automatically calculating cost figures for all of 
our clients.
Whilst it wasnt what J wanted, it wasnt wrong either and the business hasnt done 
anything wrong by not doing what J specifically wanted or required for its own profit 
and loss account.  
Despite what J says, I cant safely say that the average costing method was applied 
in a flawed way or wasnt followed properly. Like the investigator, Im satisfied that it 
did what it made clear on its website it would do, and J had access to this 
information. 
On balance, I dont think the business could provide all the details of its calculations 
so probably hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. I note it had made clear that 
J could call up to discuss matters.  
A business is, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, 
entitled to run its affairs how it pleases. Its not for us to tell a business how it should run its affairs. So, unless we find that the information provided was misleading or 
wasnt clear and fair, its really not for us to tell a business what processes it should 
use.
In this instance, and on balance, the business calculated figures in the way that it 
said it would  and made clear that it would. J had access to this information, as well 
as the opportunity to ask questions if it wasnt happy with anything. 
On balance, I dont think its for us to determine the appropriateness of the method 
used by the business. 
Just because J wants the calculation done in a different way doesnt mean the 
business has done anything wrong. In other words, the business using an average 
costing method which J doesnt agree with, doesnt mean it has done anything 
wrong. I note in correspondence the business made clear the following:
oIf you would like to use a different accounting method for your personal use, 
your contract notes details the unit price for each purchase and sale on the 
account. To view contract notes online, simply login to your account and 
select the 'Portfolio History' tab. From here, you'll be able to view the contract 
notes section on the left side of the webpage. Please select the appropriate 
account (i.e. HL Stocks & Shares ISA) from the dropdown menu and make 
sure the period is set to the specific month your trade was placed within. 
Once you've done this, click 'Go'. You should then be able to see the contract 
note appear just below the search bar.
oAlternatively, you're able to view this by clicking on the blue 'view contract 
note' button found to the right of your individual trades within your transaction 
history. 
oIf you still hold a stock, you can also view an individual transaction history by 
clicking the name of the holding within your 'Stocks' screen. This will be listed 
at the bottom of the page and the contract note will be accessible by clicking 
the reference code."
I appreciate J will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what it wants to hear. 
I note it believes that the business should recalculate the figures and pay compensation, but 
I dont agree. Whilst I appreciate its deep frustration and anguish, Im not going to ask the 
business to do anything further.   
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what J says, Im unable to 
give it what it wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman