DRN-2553042
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) will not allow him to have a 
cash lump sum in place of his annuity with it. 
What happened
Mr M called Aviva in 2017 after receiving a letter from it, this alerted him to the fact he held a 
pension with Aviva. Aviva told Mr M this pension had come about from a previous 
employers pension scheme.
In this call the Aviva member of staff said under the policy he wouldnt be able to take his 
benefits flexibly and she recommended that Mr M speak to a financial adviser.
Mr M enquired, theres no way you can cash any of it in in obviously? The call handler said 
she would send Mr M out a retirement pack which would set out all of his options. 
Aviva then sent Mr M out a retirement pack. This detailed all his options for taking his 
benefits including the open market option. But there was no option to take the whole fund as 
a lump sum. Mr M chose to take a tax-free cash sum and annuity from the non-protected 
rights part of his pension. And regarding, the guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) he only 
had the option to take it as an annuity or to take it on the open market option. Mr M chose to 
take it as an annuity with Aviva.
More recently Mr M complained to Aviva as he wished to have a cash-lump sum instead of 
his annuity.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
explained Aviva had given Mr M his options and recommended he speak to a financial 
adviser. Mr M had made his choices and Aviva had administered his policy in line with Mr 
Ms instructions. He also explained that the annuity couldnt be cashed in due to its value.
Mr M disagreed, he thinks Aviva is with-holding his money and he should be able to do with 
it as he wants.
Avivas told us that Mr Ms pension couldnt be taken flexibly. Its explained even if he had 
chosen to take his GMP on the open market option the receiving provider wouldnt have 
been able to offer a cash lump sum or any other additional flexibility. It would still have had 
to be paid in the same format as Mr M received from Aviva.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I wont be upholding this complaint. I know that this will be disappointing 
for Mr M but Ill explain my reasons why below.
Mr M wanted to, and still wants the option to take his pension benefits as a lump sum. 
However, his policy didnt allow for this option. Mr Ms pension came from an old 
occupational pension scheme built up with an employer. The scheme had been wound up 
and Aviva took on the responsibility to pay the benefits Mr M had within the scheme. The 
scheme was a defined benefit scheme. What this means is that the benefits Mr M would 
receive at retirement were already set by the employers scheme. Aviva had agreed it would 
pay Mr M the benefits set out by the scheme to Mr M when he chose to retire. So when Mr M 
came to retire, Aviva under the terms of the policy had to pay Mr M what had been defined 
under the scheme.
Aviva did give Mr M the option to take his benefits on the open market option with another 
provider. But Mr M chose not to do this, he selected to take his benefits with Aviva. Aviva 
recommended that Mr M should seek independent financial advice, but he chose not to do 
so. In any event, Aviva has explained that had Mr M chose to take the open market option, 
the alternative provider would still have had to adhere to the benefits set out by the scheme.
So whilst I can understand why Mr M wanted a cash lump sum, he chose to take his benefits 
with Aviva and it has paid him what he requested. And it appears, regardless of the options 
he chose, the option to take his policy as a cash-lump sum wasnt available to him under this 
policy.
Mr M has now asked to cancel his annuity and instead have a cash lump sum. However, 
legislation does not allow for this either.
The rules allow for annuities valued under £10,000 for personal pensions (and under 
£30,000 for occupational pension schemes) to be cashed in at the providers discretion. Mr 
Ms annuity value is way in excess of both of these figures. And so this isnt an option that is 
available to Mr M even if Aviva agreed.
In conclusion, Mr M chose to take his benefits with Aviva, and Aviva has met the terms of the 
contract agreed then. Legislation doesnt allow for Mr Ms annuity now to be cashed in. And 
it doesnt appear that there was any way that Mr M couldve had this pension paid as a cash 
lump sum either. Even if he had have chosen to take it on the open market option  which he 
didnt do in any event.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman