DRN-3046463
The complaint
Mr T complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, applied arrears to his 
credit cards. He wants the arrears removed from his accounts. 
What happened
In 2020, Mr T reported financial difficulties, so in April Halifax agreed a six month payment 
holiday, with no payments due on either of Mr Ts two credit cards.
After that, In October, Halifax agreed to put a 30 day hold on the accounts. It wrote to 
confirm this, saying that the hold wouldnt clear the amount Mr T was behind, and his normal 
monthly payments would still be due. Halifax said it wouldnt chase for these payments but if 
Mr T missed payments, hed need to catch up with them later. Because Mr T had reported 
financial difficulty, Halifax said it had temporarily stopped charging interest to help, and it 
would charge interest again when Mr Ts situation improved.  The letter also explained that 
being behind with payments could affect Mr Ts credit score, and could stay on his credit file 
for 6 years.
In November, Halifax put a three month payment plan in place, with a reduced monthly 
payment from 21 December to 21 February 2021. As with the previous letter, this letter said 
that this temporary plan wouldnt clear the amount Mr T was behind, and his normal monthly 
payments would still be due. The letter also said that as Mr T would still be behind with his 
payments, hed need to get in touch towards the end of the plan.
The letter also set out some other points, including the impact on Mr Ts credit file, and the 
fact that you are still bound to make the monthly payments set out in your credit card 
agreement. This means we may exercise our rights under your credit card agreement if you 
cant make some of your future monthly payments.
In February 2021 Halifax wrote to Mr T saying that the repayment plan was coming to an 
end, and arrears were now due. It asked him to get in touch about arrangements for 
repaying these.
Mr T rang Halifax. He asked for another plan. Halifax offered him the option of closing the 
account and going onto a plan to repay the balance, but he refused. Mr T wanted the arrears 
removed from his account, and said that hed phoned Halifax in January because he was 
getting statements asking him to make the minimum payment. He said Halifax had told him 
to ignore the statements. So he complained.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It did agree another 30 day hold, which expired on 28 
March. After that, it set up a further 3 month payment plan was then set up from April to 
June. But Halifax said it wouldnt clear the arrears on Mr Ts account, because they were 
correct, and Halifax had to show a true reflection of how Mr Ts account had been run.
Mr T complained to this service. He said that in a phone call on 6 January 2021, hed been 
told the account wouldnt go into arrears. He wanted the arrears to be removed, and a 
further three month period, up to October 2021, to make reduced payments, saying hed be 
able to make the minimum payments after that. Mr T said that two other credit card 
companies had agreed to do this.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He set out what the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) says about payment holidays. In April 2020 it said the following on its 
website:
A full payment holiday (also called a freeze or deferral) is a period of time agreed with your 
lender when you dont have to make any payments. A partial payment holiday is when your 
lender lets you make reduced payments for a period of time.
However, its important to remember that:
when your payment holiday ends, youll still have to pay back what you owe
interest will continue to build  unless your lender has told you otherwise  so your 
repayments may increase after the holiday if you take a payment holiday, you will 
likely end up paying more in the long term.
The investigator said that Halifax had acted in line with this guidance, and had allowed Mr T 
the maximum 6 month payment holiday allowed under the guidance. And it had then agreed 
a series of interest freezes and payment plans. 
The investigator also said that the call note for the 6 January 2021 phone call had confirmed 
that Mr T had been told to ignore the statements because he was on a plan  but it had gone 
on to say that at the end of the plan, hed have to get in touch to discuss how to clear the 
arrears.
Mr T wasnt satisfied. He repeated that hed been told that arrears wouldnt have to be paid, 
and said that Halifax had been unfair. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says he was told he wouldnt have to pay the arrears on his accounts. So Ive looked at 
the notes from the call on 6 January 2021. I can see that Halifaxs adviser did tell Mr T to 
ignore these statements because of the active temporary plan. But the adviser then went on 
to say that Mr T should call Halifax before the expiry on 21 February to review the situation 
and sort out a plan for the arrears and Mr T agreed.
I consider that the reason the advisor told Mr T to ignore the statements was that the full 
minimum payments werent currently being chased because of the current plan. I dont 
accept that it was a promise that hed never have to pay them. This is borne out by the 
advisor going on to say that there would in future have to be a plan to sort out the arrears 
which had been and were continuing to build up.
Ive also checked the letters which were sent to Mr T about the various holds and payment 
plans. These all point out that the monthly payments are still due, and that meant Halifax 
could exercise its rights under the agreement if Mr T didnt make some of his future 
payments. The letters also explain that there would be an impact on Mr Ts credit file.
Ive also considered whether Halifax acted fairly towards Mr T overall, and I find that it did. It 
gave him six months payment holidays, during which Mr T didnt have to make any payments; put temporary holds on the accounts which froze the interest; and agreed multiple 
reduced payment plans. I consider this fulfilled the requirement of the various rules which 
say that financial organisations must treat customers in financial difficulties fairly.
Payment holidays are actually just deferral of payment. Although it means a customer in 
financial difficulties doesnt have to make payments immediately, the payments are still due 
eventually. And meanwhile, interest builds up. So its really best for customers to have 
payment holidays for as short a period as possible, only for as long as they really need them 
 because payment holidays mean the customer ends up paying more in the end. This 
applies to all payment holidays  not just Halifax. 
Mr T told us that two other credit card lenders had wiped off his arrears. But Halifax has no 
obligation to do whatever other lenders do, and can make its own decisions. 
So I find that Halifax acted fairly towards Mr T, and I dont require it to remove Mr Ts 
arrears.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman