DRN-3340511
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) has 
declined a claim under the death benefit element of its Business Class Injury and Travel 
Insurance policy following the death of an employee, whom Ill refer to as Mr V. 
Mr O, who is a director of F, brings the complaint on Fs behalf.  
What happened
F took out a Business Class Injury and Travel Insurance policy for the benefit of its directors 
and employees. 
Mr V, an employee of F, was water-skiing when he fell resulting in his head hitting the water 
at force. He then went onto a boat where he suffered a seizure. He was taken to hospital 
and diagnosed with an Aortic Dissection which was operated on. He sadly passed away the 
following day due to a multiorgan dysfunction. 
F made a claim following Mr Vs death against the death benefit element of the policy.
Mr Vs death certificate noted the cause of death as Acute Aortic Dissection. The Accident 
and Emergency discharge summary stated the same, as well as saying it was caused 
following a water-skiing accident. 
Chubb reviewed the evidence provided and declined the claim on the basis that there was 
no direct link between the accident and the cause of death. Chubb said there was insufficient 
medical evidence that the water-skiing accident caused the Aortic Dissection leading to 
Mr Vs death. 
F was dissatisfied with Chubbs assessment of the claim. It said that the accident must have 
caused the Aortic Dissection and therefore would like Chubb to pay the death benefit in the 
amount of £200,000 as per its insurance policy.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Fs complaint. She 
thought that Chubb had acted fair and reasonably in declining the claim based on the 
available medical evidence and policy terms. 
F didnt agree with the investigator. In response to the investigators view, F said Mr V hit the 
water at force which would have impacted his whole body including his chest causing trauma 
and therefore the accident must have caused the Aortic Dissection to rupture resulting in 
Mr Vs death. F also pointed out that Mr V was fine prior to the accident and soon after the 
incident he was keeled over in pain. There was also no pre-existing medical condition, 
illness or disease relating to the Aortic Dissection.
F also provided an article in support of its claim that trauma from an accident could cause an 
Aortic Dissection.  
The investigator reviewed the information provided by F, but it didnt change her view and so 
F asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Chubb has an obligation to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions 
The policy term most relevant to Fs claim states that cover is provided 
If during the period of insurance an Accident occurs during the Effective Time and 
causes Bodily injury to an Insured Person, the insurer will pay the Policyholder the 
benefit amount shown in the Schedule of Benefits for: 
1.Death
Accident is defined as: 
a sudden, external and identifiable event that happens by chance and could not 
have been expected. The word accidental shall be construed accordingly.
Bodily injury is defined as: 
an identifiable physical injury;
a. caused solely by Accidental means;
b. which independently of illness or any other cause;
c. results directly in the Insured Persons
death; or
disablement;
d. within twenty-four calendar months from the date of the Accident.
The policy excludes claims for Bodily Injury or expense which results from or is contributed 
to by sickness or disease which is not itself the direct result of Bodily Injury. 
This means for a successful claim, it must be shown that the injury sustained in the accident 
caused the death. Did Chubb fairly decline the claim? 
Ive considered very carefully everything provided by both parties. Ive also kept in mind that, 
ultimately, its for F to establish its claim under the policy. 
The crux of the issue for me to decide is whether Chubb fairly and reasonably concluded 
that F didnt meet the policy definition of Accident causing Bodily Injury and, as such, 
whether it fairly and reasonably declined Fs claim. 
As our investigator explained in her view, we are not medical experts. Its not for me to agree 
or disagree with the findings of the experts or to overlay my own thoughts about Mr Vs 
condition. My role is to consider the evidence provided to Chubb and decide if Chubb 
reached a reasonable conclusion. In doing so, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me 
when considering the matter. And for the reasons set out below, Im satisfied that Chubb 
have acted fairly and reasonably in declining Fs claim. I say this because: 
It is clear Mr V suffered an Aortic Dissection following a water-skiing accident. Fs 
policy was in place at the time of the accident and death of Mr V. In line with the 
terms of the policy, it is for F to show that the death was a direct cause of an injury 
from the accident. 
In declining Fs claim, Chubb said that in order for the death benefit to be payable 
they need medical confirmation that the Acute Aortic Dissection was caused solely by 
accidental means, which independently of illness or any other cause (including 
sickness or disease) resulted directly in Mr Vs death. This is inline with the terms of 
the policy.  
As well as reviewing the evidence presented to them by F, Chubb also requested 
further information from Mr Vs General Practitioner (GP) specifically asking if the 
cause of the death would be related in any way to bodily injury as a direct result of an 
accident. In the circumstances, it was reasonable for Chubb to ask for further 
comments from Mr Vs GP to assess whether the death was a direct consequence of 
an injury from the accident. The GP said that they were unable to confirm specifically 
on the cause of death. I dont think this alone is substantial enough to confirm that 
there isnt sufficient evidence. I have therefore reviewed all the evidence provided by 
F in deciding whether Chubb acted reasonably in declining Fs claim.   
The death certificate states the cause of the death as Acute Aortic Dissection. Chubb 
is correct that there is no mention of accident listed here and also that no inquest into 
the death was carried out following Mr Vs death. 
The Accident and Emergency letter and discharge note state that Mr V suffered an 
Aortic Dissection following a water-skiing accident. This has not been disputed by 
either party. However, it doesnt confirm that the water-skiing accident was the cause 
of the Aortic Dissection which sadly resulted in Mr Vs death.
In support of Fs claim that the trauma from the accident caused the Aortic 
Dissection, it provided an article where it says this has happened. The article is about 
a 61-year-old male who suffered trauma when hit by a snowboarder. He was later 
diagnosed with an Aortic Dissection. However, the article goes on to conclude that a 
causal relationship cannot be proven, and that the Aortic Dissection and chest 
trauma may have been coincidental. 
Chubb said that an Acute Aortic Dissection occurs due to a weakened area of the 
aortic wall. A number of medical conditions associated with the weakening of the walls of the blood vessels could cause it to happen. In rare circumstances it can also 
be caused by a traumatic injury to the chest area, such as during a motor vehicle 
accident. 
The information provided by Chubb suggests that the aortic wall needs to be 
weakened and traumatic injury may be a contributory factor in causing an Aortic 
Dissection. So, while I think there is a possibility, although rare, that the trauma of the 
accident could have contributed to the Aortic Dissection, there is insufficient evidence 
to demonstrate that it was the case here.  
The medical evidence which has been presented doesnt confirm if any injuries were 
sustained as a direct result of the water-skiing accident and more importantly that the 
water-skiing accident was the cause of the Aortic Dissection which sadly resulted in 
Mr Vs death.  
Im satisfied that Chubb have acted in line with their terms and conditions and it was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for them to decline this claim based on the available 
evidence. I know this will be disappointing to F but unfortunately there just isnt enough 
evidence to show that the accident was the direct cause of the Aortic Dissection resulting in 
Mr Vs death. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman