DRN-3396078
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he received in 1992 to take out a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) plan. The advice was provided by BMA 
Services, which is now the responsibility of Wesleyan Assurance Limited. 
Mr Ms wife received advice at the same time as Mr M but this decision relates solely to 
advice provided to Mr M. 
What happened
Mr M and his wife met with an adviser from BMA in 1992. BMA were an Independent 
Financial Adviser that provided financial advice to British Medical Association members, 
such as Mr M.  
The fact find and suitability letter completed at the time confirmed that Mr M was in full time 
employment as a Doctor, earning £34,000 per annum and was a member of the NHS 
Pension Scheme. He was expected to achieve 35 years service by his normal retirement 
age of 60. 
Mr Ms objectives for the meeting were recorded as:
Saving money in the long, medium, and short term
Providing an income in retirement
Protection for the family in the event of long-term sickness and death
Providing for school fees
Following a review of Mr Ms circumstances, the adviser recommended Mr M take a number 
of insurance and savings plans, along with an FSAVC to top up his retirement provision. 
Mr M accepted the advisers recommendations. The FSAVC plan started with an initial 
monthly contribution of £80, increasing incrementally each year to £180.24 per month in 
2019. 
In 2019 Mr M, with assistance from a representative, complained to Wesleyan about the 
advice he received from BMA. Wesleyan upheld the complaint and confirmed that it would 
be passing Mr Ms file to its actuaries for a loss assessment to be completed on the basis 
that Mr M would have chosen to buy added years in the NHS Pension Scheme had the 
FSAVC not been mis-sold. In early 2021 Wesleyan wrote to Mr M again to confirm the 
outcome of its loss assessment. It offered him a cash payment of £13,601.36. However, its 
letter confirmed that the loss assessment had been completed on the basis of Mr M 
contributing to the in-house money purchase additional voluntary contributions (AVC) 
arrangement.  Mr Ms representative queried this with Wesleyan, particularly as Mr Ms 
wifes complaint  which appeared to be very similar  had already been settled on an added 
years basis. 
Wesleyan confirmed that after the initial complaint response had been issued, a quality 
check had been completed on Mr Ms case and it hadnt agreed with the initial decision to 
uphold the complaint on an added years basis. This was because Wesleyan was satisfied 
there was clear evidence that the added years option had been discussed and discounted. 
Wesleyan also explained that having now reviewed matters, Mr Ms wifes case should also 
have been completed on the basis that she would have contributed to the in-house AVC but 
as settlement had already been made, Wesleyan said it would not be changing the outcome 
of Mr Ms wifes case.
Mr M was unhappy with the offer put forward by Wesleyan and his representative requested 
that Wesleyan reconsider matters but ultimately, the parties were unable to resolve matters 
so the complaint was referred to our service for consideration. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and agreed that it should be upheld on the 
basis that Mr M would have contributed to the in-house AVC arrangement. The investigator 
was satisfied that the added years option had been explained during the sale. And she 
thought that the 13% growth rate used in the comparison of benefits, which was set out in 
the financial planning report, was in line with the general projections at that time. 
Mr Ms representative disagreed and provided further submission to support its stance that 
Mr M would have bought added years. In summary Mr Ms representative said that: 
the basis of analysis undertaken in the Financial Planning report wasnt fit for 
purpose. The NHS Added Years contract provides such a strong guarantee 
(including spouses and dependents pension benefits and annual indexation of 
pension in retirement). The cost of securing equivalent benefits in the open market is 
much higher (when converting AVC or FSAVC funds at the point of retirement). None 
of these points were adequately disclosed to the client in the conclusions, creating a 
very unbalanced picture.
comparing added years to an FSAVC that assumes 13% annualised growth for in 
excess of 30 years could never be a fair comparison. An assessment showing the 
rate of growth (critical yield) needed to match the Added Years would have been a 
fairer method of demonstrating the value of guarantees on offer - or at least 
comparisons reflecting a range of returns. This was not provided leaving a picture 
heavily distorted in favour of a product sale, rather than adding funds to an added 
years contract (an option which would also have been free of commission or advice 
costs).
the suitability of money purchase AVCs (and indeed the appropriateness of the level 
of growth selected for the comparison) have not been demonstrated with reference to 
the risk tolerance, preferences and objectives of the client. Risk tolerance/ fund 
selection is not even covered (in spite of the significant impact on the 
appropriateness of the comparison assumptions). The flexibility of the arrangement 
has been suggested as a benefit, without any real explanation or justification.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of advice BMA was acting as an independent financial adviser and was required 
to follow the rules of FIMBRA (Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory 
Association). The advisor was expected to have compared what the in-house options and 
what the FSAVC had to offer. So, this meant the adviser should have gone further than a 
tied adviser by looking at the in-house options and the FSAVC and positively recommending the suitable option. So, the adviser should have actively made a recommendation that was in 
Mr Ms best interest.
Wesleyan hasnt been able to determine that this was done so it has upheld the complaint. 
Although initially saying that it thought Mr M would have taken added years if hed been 
suitably advised, its since changed its stance and now believes he would have joined the in-
house AVC arrangement. I think the way it communicated this change of position to Mr M 
could have been better and Ive addressed this further on in my decision. But Ive first 
thought about what Mr M would have done, had he been suitably advised. 
Generally speaking people are better off making in-house AVCs (as opposed to FSAVCs) 
as the charges tend to be lower than those associated with FSAVCs. And the perceived 
benefits of FSAVCs (flexibility and portability) are less likely to be relevant for a medical 
professional like Mr M. He was likely to remain within that profession (and therefore the 
same pension scheme) rather than changing employers throughout his working life. 
However, Mr M argues that he wouldnt have joined the AVC arrangement and instead 
would have bought added years. 
I acknowledge that with hindsight Mr M might have been better off if hed bought added 
years as investment returns have failed to live up to expectations. But I cant safely say he 
would have taken added years in 1992. And its worth noting that the vast majority of added 
years arrangements, including public sector arrangements like the NHS, are not intentionally 
subsidised by the employer. This means added years cost more to the member than gaining 
a normal year of service under the occupational scheme.
Mr M was expected to accumulate 35 years service by the age of 60 so he had scope to 
buy 4 added years. And it appears he could have afforded added years too. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that he would have chosen to buy them. 
The adviser was required to make a like for like cost comparison. It does appear the adviser 
obtained some information from Mr Ms employer about added years and they attempted to 
carry out a comparison of benefits. However, the comparison only showed what the FSAVC 
fund could be worth if it grew at 13%. At the time, this was the highest of the regulators 
predicted growth rates for pension investment returns. But a fairer comparison would have 
been to also include projections at 8.5% and 10.75%, which were the lower and mid-rate 
projections. But even if a comparison had been done at all three projections, I think its likely 
that, even at the lower rate, it would have shown that Mr M had the potential to be better off 
if hed joined the in-house AVC. I say this because the comparison at 13% showed that Mr M 
could be significantly better off if he took the FSAVC. And given the significant growth 
expected at this rate, I think its very likely that it would have also shown at the mid-rate, and 
at the lower rate, that the potential returns on the FSAVC would be better than the added 
years arrangement. 
Mr Ms representative considers showing the rate of growth (critical yield) needed to match 
the added years benefits would have been a fairer method of demonstrating the value of 
guarantees on offer. It says that had this been done it thinks a growth rate of 8  8.5% would 
have been needed to match the benefits. But given that potential returns in 1992 were so 
high, I think its possible that if this comparison had been completed, then it would have still 
shown that the money purchase option had the potential to provide better benefits. And Im 
conscious that the comparison at 13% was based on the potential returns of the FSAVC not 
the in-house AVC, which given the lower charges on the AVC, would likely have meant that 
the projected returns would have been even higher for the AVC.
 
I do appreciate there were other factors that needed to be taken into consideration and Ive 
also thought about these. In terms of Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR), I think its clear from the fact find that there was a discussion around this. I say this because Mr M has been noted as 
having an ATR of 3-4, and his wife an ATR of 5. The scale used for this isnt noted but I think 
its likely to have been 110. So although at the lower end of the scale, it doesnt appear that 
Mr M was risk adverse so he was prepared to take some risk.
And given what he was expected to accumulate from the NHS pension scheme at retirement 
(35 years guaranteed pension), I think he had the capacity to take some investment risk to 
achieve the same pension (or more) than added years. 
Ive also thought about the spouses benefit that added years would have provided. 
Generally when looking at a married individual, this may be considered a valuable benefit. 
But in the case of Mr M, his wife was expected to accumulate a good pension in her own 
right. So he may not have perceived this particular aspect to provide much benefit, 
particularly considering a significant proportion of his payments towards added years would 
have gone towards funding this.   
Im also conscious that although Mr M seems to have had a reasonable amount of 
disposable income, and it appears that he could have afforded added years, I dont know 
that he would have been prepared to make the necessary financial commitment added years 
would have required at that time. The paperwork suggests that Mr M and his wife were 
considering starting a family in a few years and that they may look to move home. So it may 
well be that he wouldnt have wanted to commit to an added years contract at that time as 
once started it couldnt be changed. 
And at the age of 27, retirement would have been many years in the future and the 
forecasted returns he could have made are likely to have been a more attractive prospect 
than paying for relatively expensive added years. So I think even if the adviser had done 
everything they were supposed to at the time, I think Mr M is more likely to have preferred a 
money purchase option, such as the in-house AVC. And from what I can see, that wouldnt 
have been an unsuitable recommendation as I think most people who were prepared to take 
some risk wouldnt choose an option which looked relatively more expensive but was 
intended to achieve the same outcome. 
I do appreciate that Mr Ms wifes complaint was settled by Wesleyan on an added years 
basis. But Im only considering Mr Ms case and for the reasons Ive explained, I think if hed 
been given suitable advice, he would most likely have joined the in-house AVC arrangement. 
And I note that Wesleyan has since said that had they not already settled Mr Ms wifes case, 
it would also have changed the basis on which it upheld the complaint to mirror Mr Ms. 
Turning now to how Wesleyan dealt with its change in stance from initially upholding Mr Ms 
case on the basis that he would have bought added years and then changing this position 
and instructing its actuaries to carry out a charges only calculation. As I understand it, it was 
only after Mr Ms representative raised this matter with Wesleyan that an explanation for the 
change was provided. I think Wesleyan ought to have contacted Mr M when it first decided 
that it had reached the incorrect outcome and was changing the redress methodology.
 
Instead, for over a year Mr M was led to believe that his complaint was being upheld in full 
and that redress would be paid on an added years basis. I therefore think Wesleyan should 
pay Mr M £150 for the inconvenience this has caused. 
Your text herePutting things right
Wesleyan should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
And Wesleyan should pay Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result 
of the redress methodology changing and its failure to notify Mr M of this before issuing its 
revised offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Wesleyan Assurance Society 
to complete a calculation and pay redress as set out above. It should also pay Mr M £150 for 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman