DRN-3505408
The complaint
Mrs M complains about charges BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) told her 
to pay for damage to a car when it was returned. 
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs M took out a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a new car. She 
gave notice of her intention to voluntarily terminate this agreement in April 2021.
BMWFS arranged for their agent to inspect the car on 28 April 2021. Mrs M received a copy 
of the inspection report, listing the following damage: 
Component Condition Cost
Wheel LHF Scratched £68
Wheel LHR Scratched £68
Bonnet Scratched £106
Bumper front Scratched Right Corner £45
Wing LHF Scratched £106
Door LHF Scratched £106
Door LHR Scratched £106
Qtr panel LHR Scratched £106
Qtr panel RHR Scratched £106
Door RHF Scratched £106
Following this inspection, BMWFS sent Mrs M an invoice for £711 for damages outside wear 
and tear.
Mrs M contacted BMWFS on 3 May 2021, disputing this charge. She said that, before the 
car was collected, shed had the rear bumper professionally resprayed and a new tyre fitted. 
She said the windscreen had also been replaced a few months earlier. Mrs M said the car 
had been in excellent condition  and that the added resale value due to the very low 
mileage far outweighed the cost of polishing out any superficial marks.
BMWFS responded to Mrs M on 11 May 2021. They said theyd reviewed the report of the 
initial inspection, together with the appraisal completed by their refurbishment centre when 
the car arrived on site. They reduced their invoice to £242. They said this was for damage to 
the alloy wheels and bonnet, which fell outside the guidelines for fair wear and tear.
Mrs M offered BMWFS £68, for the cost of a repair to one alloy wheel. She said their 
inspector had been overzealous in his assessment of the car. 
On 4 June 2021 BMWFS sent Mrs M their final response, saying they were satisfied the 
damage had been recorded correctly and fell outside the wear and tear guidelines they work 
to. They said they were unable to take the return mileage into account when assessing the 
vehicle - and didnt accept her offer of a reduced payment. 
One of our investigators reviewed the evidence about the damage to the alloy wheels and 
bonnet. He also considered the terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs M had signed 
and the industry standard - the fair wear and tear guidelines published by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
The investigator said he was satisfied the charge for the damage to the alloy wheels had 
been raised correctly, because this was more than fair wear and tear. But he said BMWFS 
should remove the other charge for damage to the bonnet, because he didnt think there was 
conclusive evidence to support this.
BMWFS accepted our investigators view, agreeing to reduce the balance Mrs M owed by 
£106. 
Mrs M said she was willing to pay for the damage to the alloy wheels. But she didnt think the 
investigators view took account of distress and inconvenience shed been caused as a 
result of BMWFS incorrectly demanding £711, when in fact only £136 was due. She felt 
theyd been trying it on here. Mrs M said BMWFS had ignored numerous emails shed sent 
them about this.
Mrs M stressed that shed acted responsibly by arranging her own inspection of the car at a 
local dealership and ensuring the damage theyd identified was put right. She didnt think the 
inspector had followed BVRLA guidelines. Mrs M said the car had been returned with an 
above average resale value due to its low mileage  and shed certified this mileage to a 
prospective purchaser, which had assisted BMWFS to resell the car. 
The investigator was satisfied BMWFS had followed the correct procedure in raising the 
charges, so he didnt think compensation was justified. He explained that the low mileage 
had no bearing on damage charges. The investigator said the fact that hed asked BMWFS 
to reduce their charge didnt mean their initial assessment had been wrong, or they were 
trying it on. 
Mrs M disagreed. She felt BMWFS must have known the report was wrong and/or 
fraudulent, as they reduced their invoice.  She asked for an ombudsman to review whether 
she should be compensated for distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Entering into consumer credit contract such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can look into Mrs Ms complaint against BMWFS. 
The damage charges are no longer in dispute, so theres no need for me to discuss that. My 
decision focusses on whether Mrs M should be paid compensation for distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused. 
I appreciate voluntarily terminating a hire purchase agreement can be a stressful decision to 
make. But I can only consider an award for distress and inconvenience caused by something 
BMWFS did wrong  not for the overall impact of the situation on Mrs M. So Ive started by 
considering whether BMWFS acted unfairly or unreasonably by sending her an invoice for 
£711. 
Ive read the hire purchase agreement Mrs M signed, to see what kind of damage BMWFS 
could charge her for. The first page has a section headed other charges, which says:If the vehicle is not returned in good repair and condition (allowing for fair wear and 
tear), we will charge you a set cost for each item of damage we would have to repair to 
return the vehicle to the state we expected it to be in (we use recognised industry 
standards to determine this). These charges reflect the cost to us in carrying out the 
works needed. A list of the current charges that may apply can be found on our 
website
I consider the BVRLA guidelines to represent good practice across the industry, giving 
fairly detailed descriptions of damage that should be considered fair wear and tear when a 
vehicle is returned. I can see Mrs M feels strongly that the inspector didnt follow these 
guidelines when he assessed the scratches on the bodywork. She says there was no 
primer showing, and she was confident theyd polish out. 
Ive looked at what the guidelines say about scratches to paintwork:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out.
So in assessing whether a scratch would be classed as fair wear and tear under these 
guidelines, my first consideration is whether it exceeds 25mm in length. If the scratch falls 
within this size restriction, Id then go on to think about whether it can be polished out  
and if the primer or bare metal is showing.
BMWFS have provided a copy of the inspection report dated 28 April 2021 and the photos 
of the damage, which Ive reviewed. A ruler has been included in the photos to show the 
size of the damage. 
With any visual inspection, I dont consider it unusual for opinions to differ as to whether 
damage will polish out. The photos confirm it had recently rained - and I accept that water 
marks and reflections on the car make it more difficult to assess the severity of the 
damage in some of the photos.
But I find the BVRLA guidelines to be clear that any scratches longer than 25mm fall 
outside what would be considered acceptable as fair wear and tear. And I do think the 
photos of the car show scratches of more than 25mm in several areas of the bodywork. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable for BMWFS to initially raise an invoice to Mrs M for 
£711 for damage to the car. Ive seen nothing to suggest they acted incorrectly here  or 
that they were trying it on.
And in any event, the evidence Ive seen shows Mrs M didnt pay this invoice. BMWFS have 
told us that, when she disputed the damages, they reviewed the photos taken before the car 
was collected and the assessment of the true costs after the car arrived on site. Ive seen 
evidence showing they emailed Mrs M on 11 May 2021, saying theyd reduced their invoice 
to £242. Im satisfied this was a fair and reasonable thing for BMWFS to do. 
Our investigator felt the charge for damage to the bonnet should be cancelled  and both 
parties have agreed. So theres no need for me to comment on that damage. The 
cancellation of this charge means the invoice will be reduced by £106.
I understand the thought of having to pay a damage charge of £242, instead of £136, has 
had an impact on Mrs M. But I dont think this would be enough to say BMWFS should make 
any further award. So although I realise Mrs M will be disappointed with this decision, I wont 
be directing BMWFS to do anything more to resolve her complaint. My final decision
BMWFS has already agreed to reduce their invoice to Mrs M by £106 to settle this complaint 
and I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
So my decision is that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should remove the £106 
charge for damage to the bonnet.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman