DRN-4427966
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) when 
making a repatriation claim on his travel insurance policy.
Any reference to IPA includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Whilst on holiday, Mr S fractured his hip. Mr S was taken to hospital and had an operation. 
This all occurred on 21 April 2023. Mr S contacted IPA to inform them of his situation on 
22 April 2023. He provided some medical information and advised hed been told he might 
be fit to travel by 24 April 2023. On 23 April 2023, which was a Sunday, IPA contacted the 
hospital and spoke to a ward nurse. IPA were informed of the following:
Mr S wasnt fit to fly at this present time.
They should call back the following day to discuss repatriation with the surgeon in 
charge of Mr S care. 
The medical report wouldnt be available until the following day. 
An ambulance would be more comfortable than the camper van Mr S had originally 
planned to return home in.
Mr S would be able to leave for home on either 24 April 2023 or 25 April 2023.
On 24 April 2023, Mr S asked the hospital if he could leave and was driven home by his 
friend in their camper van as originally planned. Whilst on the journey, Mr S informed IPA 
that he was on his way home.
On returning home, Mr S informed IPA that he was unhappy that they hadnt arranged for his 
repatriation and as a result, hed suffered significant pain on the journey home. IPA agreed 
that their communication could have been better and initially offered Mr S £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. This was later increased to £200. Mr S was 
unhappy with this offer and so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that IPAs offer was fair. Mr S didnt accept the outcome. He felt that 
it wasnt his responsibility to contact IPA as they hadnt contacted him at all. He also felt that 
the claim would have cost IPA more than theyd offered in compensation.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether IPA 
acted in line with these requirements when handling Mr Ss claim.
IPA has accepted that their service wasnt as theyd expect, so this isnt in dispute. In this 
decision I have concentrated on whether the £200 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Under his policy, Mr S was covered for the cost of repatriating him home. Mr S was also 
covered for any additional transport or accommodation expenses if his holiday had to be 
extended. However, the policy has the following special condition relating to claims:
If you suffer bodily injury, illness, disease or complication of pregnancy we reserve the 
right to move you from one hospital to another and/or arrange for your repatriation to the 
United Kingdom at any time during the trip or one-way trip. We will do this if in the opinion 
of the (Agent) or us (based on information provided by the medical practitioner in 
attendance), you can be moved safely and/or travel safely to your home area or a suitable 
hospital nearby to continue treatment.
At the point that Mr S started his journey home, IPA hadnt received the information they 
needed from Mr S medical practitioner to confirm that he could be moved safely. I wouldnt 
expect IPA to start repatriation until they had this confirmation. Based on the timeline of 
events, I dont think IPAs actions in trying to arrange repatriation has been unreasonable. I 
say this as on the 23 April 2023 the ward nurse had asked them to call back the following 
day. However, by lunchtime on 24 April 2023, Mr S was already making his own way home. 
Although I can see that IPA had given Mr S travel assistance information and a contact 
number, I think it would have been appropriate to let him know that they were waiting on 
information from the hospital.
Whilst I empathise with Mr S situation and acknowledge that his journey home must have 
been uncomfortable and painful, I dont think IPA can be held liable for this. Whilst I do 
accept that IPA should pay Mr S compensation for the service he received, I think that in the 
circumstances IPAs offer is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Inter Partner Assistance SA has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer Is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Anthony Mullins
Ombudsman