DRN-4295855
The complaint
Miss F complains about Hiscox Underwriting Limited continuing to take payments for her 
home insurance policy after shed decided not to renew her policy and take out cover with 
another insurer.
  
Hiscox use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Hiscox 
includes these agents.
What happened
Miss F had a home insurance policy with Hiscox, which she took out in 2018. When the 
policy came up for renewal in March 2022,she decided not to renew the policy as the 
premium offered was too high. So, she took out a policy with another insurer. However, she 
subsequently noticed Hiscox had continued to collect monthly premiums until August 2022. 
She contacted Hiscox, saying shed spoken to their underwriter around the time of the 
renewal date, asking to cancel the policy. Hiscox asked her to send a form setting out the 
details of the policy shed had with them to her new insurer, for them to complete and return 
to Hiscox. Once received, Hiscox would consider whether they would refund the premiums 
theyd continued to take. However, Miss F said she couldnt get her new insurer to complete 
and return the form, so wasnt able to get a refund of the premiums Hiscox had taken. 
Miss F then complained to this service. She said Hiscox had taken five monthly premiums of 
£80.04 from April to August 2022. She wanted Hiscox to refund the premiums deducted. 
As Miss F complained to this service before raising a complaint with Hiscox, our investigator 
asked Hiscox to consider the complaint in the first instance. In their final response, Hiscox 
said theyd emailed renewal documents to Miss F in January 2022, which said the policy 
would automatically renew unless Miss F contacted them to advice otherwise. Hiscox 
couldnt find any record of Miss F having contacted them to cancel the policy, so they 
concluded they hadnt acted incorrectly. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
However, they accepted (from documents provided about Miss Fs new policy) that a period 
of dual insurance had occurred (Miss F had policies from Hiscox and her new insurer in 
place from March to August 2022). Hiscox had asked Miss F to get her new insurer to 
complete a form and return it to them. However, the form had been completed by Miss F (not 
her new insurer) so Hiscox wouldnt accept it. But if the form was completed by the new 
insurer and returned to them, Hiscox would refund 50% of the premium Miss F had paid 
under her policy with Hiscox. The refund would be 50% as had there been a claim in the 
period, Hiscox and the new insurer would have shared eligible costs equally. As an accepted 
practice in cases of dual insurance, Hiscox said theyd expect the new insurer to similarly 
refund half of the premium Mis F had paid over the period.
Miss F wasnt satisfied with Hiscoxs final response, so asked this service to consider her 
complaint. She said she had phoned Hiscox to cancel her policy and it wasnt her fault 
Hiscox couldnt locate a record of the call  though she accepted she hadnt cancelled the 
direct debit mandate shed given Hiscox to take premiums under the policy. Shed provided 
evidence of the new policy shed taken out from the date her policy with Hiscox had been 
due to end so she thought she should receive a 100% refund of the premiums shed paid to 
Hiscox over the period.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Hiscox hadnt acted fairly. He thought it 
wasnt clear Miss F had contacted Hiscox to cancel her policy. In cases of dual insurance, 
our approach as a service would be for each insurer to refund 50% of the respective 
premiums (as had there been a claim in the period of dual insurance, each insurer would 
have been liable for 50% of the cost). There was enough information available about the 
new policy to ask Hiscox to refund 50% of the premiums, without the need for the new 
insurer to complete the form.
Miss F disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She thought the dual insurance situation didnt apply, and her policy with Hiscox 
was void for the period, so Hiscox should refund 100% of the premiums theyd collected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Hiscox has acted fairly towards Miss F.
The main element of Miss Fs complaint is she contacted Hiscox to cancel her policy in 
March 2022. But Hiscox didnt cancel the policy and continued to collect premiums through 
direct debit until August 2022. Miss F wants Hiscox to refund 100% of the premiums they 
took. Hiscox say they have no record of Miss F contacting them to cancel the policy, and as 
the policy was issued on an automatic renewal basis and they had no record of Miss F 
contacting them to cancel the policy, they didnt act incorrectly in taking the premiums. And 
they would refund 50% of the premiums on receipt of a completed form from the new insurer 
and expect the new insurer to refund 50% of the premiums theyd taken. Additionally, Hiscox 
say Miss F hasnt followed the process in cases of dual insurance, by getting her new insurer 
to complete a form and return it to Hiscox.
Looking at Miss Fs policy documents with Hiscox, they clearly indicate the policy would 
automatically renew unless Miss F rescinded the automatic renewal facility. So, Miss F 
would have either had to do this, or contact Hiscox to cancel the policy.
Miss F says she contacted the Hiscox underwriter to cancel the policy around the time of its 
renewal. Ive seen reference in an email from Miss F that she vaguely remembers 
contacting the underwriter. However, Hiscox say they have no recollection of Miss F 
contacting them. And Miss F hasnt provided any evidence (such as a record of phone calls) 
to support her view. Based on this, I cant reasonably conclude Miss F contacted Hiscox to 
cancel the policy.
That being so, the policy would have automatically renewed, and the premiums collected by 
direct debit. Thats what happened, until Miss F noticed that five monthly direct debits had 
been collected (she cancelled the direct debit, so the sixth payment wasnt taken).
In the circumstances, Ive concluded Hiscox didnt act unreasonably in thinking Miss F 
wanted the policy renewed, and automatically renewed it and collected five monthly 
premiums. Ive considered that  had Miss F cancelled the policy  she would have received 
confirmation from Hiscox of the cancellation. As Hiscox didnt think shed cancelled the 
policy, no such confirmation was sent. I think Miss F should reasonably  not receiving a 
confirmation of cancellation and the direct debits continuing  have known the policy hadnt 
been cancelled and continued.From the documentation provided, I can see Miss F took out a policy with another insurer 
from the date her policy with Hiscox would have been due to end (had it not automatically 
renewed). So, there was a period in which she had two home insurance policies in place. 
This means there was a dual insurance situation  I dont agree with Miss Fs view that the 
Hiscox policy was void.
That being the case, its reasonable (and in line with our approach as a service and general 
insurance industry practice) for a policyholder to receive a refund of 50% of the respective 
premiums paid to each insurer. That is what Hiscox sought to do in asking Miss F to get her 
new insurer to complete a form to this effect, and for them to return it to Hiscox. I can see 
there were then issues about the completion of the form (by Miss F, rather than the new 
insurer) and then the new insurer raising data protection issues about completing the form 
and returning to Hiscox.
However, given my conclusions above, Im satisfied that a dual insurance situation occurred 
and so its reasonable Miss F receives a 50% refund of the premiums taken by Hiscox 
through to August 2022. From the information available, it seems five monthly direct debits, 
each of £80.04, were collected by Hiscox. Applying a 50% refund to these payments would 
mean a refund of £200.10.
It would be for Miss F to contact her new insurer to pursue a 50% refund of the premiums 
she paid under her new policy for the period.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I require Hiscox Underwriting 
Limited to:
Refund Miss F 50% of the five monthly premiums they collected under her policy (a 
total of £200.10). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman