DRN-1879423
The complaint
Mr M complains as a director of T, a limited company about difficulties arising from Bank of 
Scotland (BOS) placing a block on their debit card.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr M went into a BOS branch to try to deposit some emergency cash into Ts 
account. The branch staff told Mr M they couldn't accept the payment because there was a 
block on the card. They told him to speak to the fraud team. Mr M was on hold to the fraud 
team for around half an hour, but he couldn't wait any longer because of work commitments. 
The next day Mr M called the fraud team and says he was on the phone for over an hour. 
Fortunately, no fraud had occurred. But BOS told Mr M a new card would need to be issued 
and this would take several days.  
Shortly after this, an online retailer attempted to make payments into Ts account, but they 
wouldnt go through because the card had been blocked. Mr M says this caused a cash flow 
problem, meaning T was unable to pay bills and suppliers. As a result, one of Ts suppliers 
now requires T to pay upfront rather than after goods have been supplied. T has had to 
reduce the hours of a member of staff because they cant afford to pay him. 
BOS said it blocked the card on 11 July because it had received a warning that the card 
details had been compromised and there was a serious risk of fraud. It sent a text message 
to Mr Ms mobile number asking for him to contact the fraud team. If Mr M had been able to 
wait to speak to the fraud team while he was in the branch, he would have been allowed to 
deposit the cash into the account.
Mr M spoke to the fraud team on 12 July and BOS established that no fraud had been 
committed. But as a precaution it told Mr M that the debit card would be cancelled and a new 
one would be sent out.
BOS acknowledged that T couldn't receive payments from the online retailer because a 
cancelled debit card was showing on its system. Payments were received into Ts account 
on 17 July (totalling around £2,300). BOS didn't feel it was responsible for delays in T 
receiving credits because of the arrangement with the online retailer. It said T had an 
overdraft facility of £4,900 and this was not fully being used between the 11 and 17 July.
BOS paid T £50 for inconvenience and £12 for phone calls.
Mr M was unhappy with BOSs response to his complaint, so he brought it to us. Our 
investigator looked into his concerns but thought BOS had acted reasonably.  She said BOS 
had shown that when it detects potential fraud, its process is to block the debit card to 
protect the funds and send a text message to prompt a customer to call the bank. She was 
satisfied the text message had been sent to the telephone number on the account, even if 
Mr M didn't receive it.She acknowledged Mr M had been on hold to the fraud team for half an hour while in the 
branch and hadn't  been able to wait any longer due to work commitments. But branch staff 
had provided Mr M with the relevant contact number and this is what she would have 
expected them to do in the circumstances.
She could see that payments from the online retailer were delayed by a couple of days. It 
also would have been inconvenient to have to update the online retailers account with new 
debit card details. But she felt BOSs actions were reasonable as it was trying to prevent 
potential fraud.
Our investigator didn't  think BOS was responsible for the delay in T paying their supplier. 
There was an overdraft facility in place to provide financial assistance, but T had chosen not 
to make full use of this.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said the reason T didn't want to use the full 
overdraft was because wages and a rent payment were due to come out in a few days time 
and they didn't want to risk going over the agreed overdraft. He didn't think a £50 payment 
was adequate for the stress and ongoing problems caused. He thought a text message was 
a poor way for a business to deal with something of the magnitude of stopping a business 
having access to funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulations require BOS to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. It also has a duty to protect the money in Ts account from potential fraud.
BOS has provided information to show that it had reason to believe Ts account had been 
compromised. So, I think it was fair for BOS to put a block on the card. 
Mr M says he didn't receive the text message BOS sent to notify him of this. But BOS has 
sent a screenshot showing that a text was successfully delivered to Mr M asking him to 
contact BOS about an ongoing fraud investigation.
Mr M has also expressed his concerns that a text message wasn't sufficient to notify him of 
an issue with the account. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that BOS followed its 
process and did what it was required to do within the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr M tells us T was already experiencing difficulties with cash flow, having recently received 
an unexpectedly large bill. He says if BOS had warned him about the potential repercussions 
of cancelling the card, he would have delayed it being cancelled for a few days. 
I appreciate that the delays in receiving payments from the online retailer, following the block 
on the account, made the cash flow issues worse. But I think it was reasonable for BOS to 
cancel the card and issue a new one because it was trying to protect Ts account from 
potential fraud. I wouldn't expect it to delay cancelling the card for a few days if Mr M had 
asked it to, because this would have risked the security of Ts account.   
BOS had granted T an overdraft facility of £4,900 shortly before the card was blocked. There 
was sufficient capacity in this to have allowed T to pay their supplier before receiving the funds from the online retailer. I acknowledge that Mr M didn't want to fully use the overdraft 
facility because he thought it might be needed for rent and wages. But as Ive said, I think it 
was reasonable for BOS to have cancelled the debit card and order a new one. And the 
payments from the retailer were received into Ts account less than a week after this 
happened. So, I cant see that BOS caused any unreasonable delays.
Mr M is unhappy that he had a wasted journey into the branch when he was unable to 
deposit cash into the account. He says he was kept on hold waiting to speak to the fraud 
team for around half an hour while he was there but was unable to speak to anyone due to 
work commitments. He's also mentioned spending a long time on the phone to BOS after 
this.
I understand this would have been frustrating for Mr M. But I cant consider any impact on    
Mr M personally, because he isn't the complainant  its T. And T, as a limited company, isnt 
able to experience frustration or distress. I am able to consider inconvenience caused to T. 
But I think the £50 BOS has already paid for this is sufficient. 
Overall, I think BOS has acted fairly and reasonably. It was acting in Ts best interests by 
placing a block on the card and ordering a new one to avoid potential fraud on the account. I 
appreciate this resulted in some difficulties for T, but the consequences of BOS not 
protecting the account could potentially have been much worse. While T may have 
experienced some unnecessary inconvenience, I think the compensation BOS has already 
paid it for this is fair. So, I wont ask BOS to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman