DRN-2872972
The complaint
Miss T complains that Think Money Limited have mis-sold her account, irresponsibly lent to 
her and she has not had any extra benefits or has been offered alternative accounts for her 
£17.50 monthly fee.
What happened
Miss T opened a Think account in 2012. For using the account she was charged a monthly 
fee of £17.50. Miss T says she took out loans and further credit with Think but due to her 
financial situation she says that Think did not do the proper checks and she believes they 
lent irresponsibly to her. In addition, she says her account was mis-sold to her. She believes 
this was because of her poor credit history, being in financial difficulty and having had her 
previous bank account closed down due to her circumstances. She said Think didnt offer 
her any alternatives to the account she had with them.
Miss T complained to Think about these matters. On one complaint she complained about 
the mis-selling of her account and the irresponsible lending and on another complaint she 
complained about the fees she had been charged for her account.
Think did not uphold any of Miss Ts complaints, so Miss T brought her complaints to our 
service. Our investigator explained that we would look at her complaints separately. For her 
complaint regarding the mis-selling of her account, it was explained that this is out of our 
jurisdiction to consider as this was brought more than six years of the event happening and 
wasnt brought to us within three years of when she reasonably should have known she had 
a right to complain about this matter. Her complaint about irresponsible lending was 
assigned to a different investigator to investigate. 
The complaint Miss T brought regarding her fees for her account had been brought out of 
timeframe as she brought the complaint more than six months after Think had issued their 
final response letter on 25 April 2019. Our investigator explained that we could only look at 
the monthly fee from until April 2019 to when she closed her account.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ts complaint regarding the monthly fee. She said that 
in Thinks Personal Account Plus Conditions, Think agreed to set up a Salary Account
and Card Account for Miss T with another bank. Her income would be paid into her Salary 
Account. Think would then calculate how much she needed to pay in bills, and these were 
paid from the Salary Account. This included a monthly fee of £17.50 to Think. Think sent the 
remaining money to a Card Account, which Miss T could spend using a prepaid debit card. 
Think arranged for her to be provided with this card. Our investigator also said that Think 
have provided Miss T with the services they said they would in their account conditions.
Miss T said that she didnt get the budgeting service that Think offered as part of the monthly 
fee. Our investigator explained to Miss T that the budgeting service which Think provided 
was a service to hold Miss Ts income in a Salary Account, pay her regular bills from there, 
and then release the remaining money into a Card Account which she can spend. She said 
this is set out in their account terms. Our investigator said that Think have shown her Miss 
Ts account statements from April 2019 until the closure of her account, which demonstrated 
that this service was provided. Our investigator said she can't say Think acted unreasonably 
here, as they've provided the service which they said they would. Miss T asked for an 
Ombudsman to review her complaint. She added a number of points including that if Think 
had provided a budgeting service then how did she have unpaid direct debits and that she 
would need to contact Think to move money to the correct account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear to Miss T that the only part of the complaint I can consider is her monthly fee 
after the final response letter was issued by think on 25 April 2019 until her account was 
closed for the reasons above.
Miss T has made a number of points to both Think and this service and Ive considered and 
read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Ive considered what Miss T has said regarding the fee she was charged didnt reflect the 
services or benefits Think would provide. But Im not persuaded that Think were 
unreasonable for the charge which they made and Ill explain why.
The charge of £17.50 was an operational charge for holding her account only. Its not the 
role of this service to say how a business should charge for the accounts they offer. But what 
I need to see is whether Think have followed their terms and conditions in relation to the fee. 
So, Ive looked at the account terms and conditions. In section three, it states that you will 
pay us an account operation fee. The amount of this fee is notified by us to you when 
opening the account. So the monthly fee of £17.50 would have been agreed by Miss T and 
Think prior to her opening her account. Although Miss T has said Think have not offered any 
alternative accounts to the one she had, they are not required to do so. So I cant say they 
have made an error by not offering her an alternative account if they had one more suitable 
to her needs.
Ive looked at Thinks website as regards to the budgeting options which Miss T mentions. 
Im not persuaded that the budgeting options is a service where Think will go through Miss 
Ts finances in detail with her which is what shes said she would expect. I know Miss T says 
that the money which she paid for the budgeting options was not successfully offered. But 
Miss T did not pay a fee for the budgeting as such, as the £17.50 fee was payable 
regardless of any account features which she chose to use.
As our investigator has mentioned, the budgeting that Think refers to is a service to hold 
Miss Ts income in a Salary Account, pay her regular bills from there, and then release the 
remaining money into a Card Account which she can spend. This is set out in their account 
terms. And based on Miss Ts statements from April 2019 onwards, they provided this 
service.
Ive considered what Miss T has said regarding if Think provided this service then how did 
she have unpaid direct debits. So I asked Think this question. They said that as per the 
terms and conditions Miss T agreed to at the time it says You will arrange for your 
salary/income to be paid into the account. To help with the running of your account its 
important that you make us aware of any salary/income that is due to be paid into your 
account and when this may change. So Think required Miss T to inform them of her income 
details in order for the account to budget accordingly. Think also said that Miss T would need to keep them informed of her direct debits. They said the terms say if you do not tell us this 
information, we wont be able to retain funds in the account to meet this payment. 
Im satisfied from these terms that it is Miss Ts responsibility to ensure she kept her income 
and direct debit information up to date with Think. Think has demonstrated that there were 
two incomes which were expected to credit her account, but Miss T had not updated them to 
inform her these payments wouldnt be credited and therefore she had unpaid direct debits 
as there was not enough money in the account to cover these payments. As the 
responsibility is on Miss T to inform Think of this information, then I cant say Think had 
made an error here. 
Ive considered what Miss T has said about contacting Think to move money between 
accounts. Think have said that there were two occasions in the timeframe we are looking at 
where Miss T had contacted them to do this. And this was due to income crediting the 
account which Miss T said would credit the account, but it didnt. As a result of this the 
system predicted a shortfall. These funds were then held to cover this shortfall, as expected 
and how the system is designed and set out in the terms and conditions. 
In summary, Im satisfied Thinks accounts worked as they should have worked for the 
reasons Ive already given. So it follows that I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman