DRN-3091664
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tilney Investment Management Services Limited trading as Bestinvest 
(BestInvest) didnt give him enough information to make an informed decision in relation to 
some shares he held.
What happened
Mr M held shares in Company S through the BestInvest platform. In January 2019, 
Company S was subject to corporate action and taken over by Company T. BestInvest could 
only facilitate the default option of the corporate action and didnt tell Mr M about it or the 
other options that may be available to him if hed transferred his shares elsewhere. As result 
Mr M received a cash payment per share and shares in Company T. As BestInvests 
platform wouldnt allow customers to hold shares in Company T, these were also sold and 
Mr M received the proceeds. Mr M received a total of £9,910.11.
Mr M queried the payments and was told initially that the corporate action was mandatory. 
He was then told by BestInvest that there were a number of options available to 
shareholders but the default option was the only option that BestInvest could facilitate. Mr M 
complained that he wasnt given an opportunity to do something different as he wasnt given 
the correct information.
BestInvest acknowledged that it didnt give Mr M enough information. Initially it said he 
hadnt suffered a financial loss and offered £150 for the trouble and upset it had caused. It 
later acknowledged that Mr M may have taken different action. It said that assuming Mr M 
transferred his shares to another platform then it was likely he wouldve later sold his shares 
in Company T depending on how the price moved. It considered Mr Ms usual pattern of 
purchasing and then selling shares within a month and calculated a loss based on the 
following:
- Mr M moving his shares in Company T and selling them within the month from the 
takeover
- Taking an average share price across the month looking at all options available 
(currency and custodian)
- Calculating the loss of value and adding interest 
BestInvest worked out that Mr M had suffered a loss of around £268 and made an offer of 
£400 total compensation. This was increased to £550 to include the initial £150 
compensation offer.
Our investigator felt this was fair as it wasnt possible to know what Mr M wouldve done at 
the time and BestInvest had considered all options when looking at how much he may have 
lost. But Mr M disagreed. Mr M said he was certain he wouldve sold his shares in 
Company S prior to the takeover. So, hed have never taken any of those options as he 
wouldnt have retained the shares.
Based on this information, BestInvest reverted to its original offer of £150 compensation for 
trouble and upset. It said that had Mr M sold his shares in Company S in the 12 months prior 
to the take over the highest he couldve received was £9,896.89. Mr M received £9,910.11 
from the default option so he hadnt suffered any financial loss. Our investigator agreed with 
this and felt this offer was fair, taking into account everything that Mr M had said.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. He reiterated that the 
service hed received wasnt acceptable and he felt a higher payment of compensation was 
fair. He also said he wouldve sold his shares in Company S during the takeover period and 
this wouldve generated a higher price but hed not provided evidence of this. As no 
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to look at what is likely to have happened had BestInvest not made an error  
that is if it had told Mr M about the corporate action options. Ive considered that there were 
a number of options available other than the default option but Ive been guided by Mr M 
who has made it clear hed have never taken any option. He told us:
I know that to transfer sharescan take a long period and I would not have transferred 
them. I would instead have soldit is a clear and easy decision to make for me.
So, I think its clear that Mr M believes hed have never taken any of the options, including 
the default option, had he known about the corporate action. Rather hes said he wouldve 
sold his shares in Company S and I think its reasonable to assume this is the case. So, I 
need to determine whether hes lost out financially by being denied the opportunity to do this. 
From what Ive seen, he has not.
The takeover of Company S happened on 7 January 2019 with new shares in Company T 
being issued to shareholders on 8 January 2019. The highest price that shares in 
Company S couldve been sold for over the 12 months prior to the takeover was £48.28 
(rounded up) per share. Mr M had 205 shares. So, had he sold these prior to the takeover 
the highest possible price he couldve received was around £9897. Mr M received more than 
this from the default option that BestInvest followed.
Whilst I appreciate that this is a simple way of looking at things, it is impossible to know 
without the benefit of hindsight what Mr M wouldve done. But had Mr M sold his shares, as 
hes said he wouldve done, he wouldnt have achieved a better financial settlement than he 
did from BestInvest following the option that it did. So, I dont think hes suffered a financial 
loss because of BestInvests error of not telling him about the corporate action options.
Ive considered the compensation for the trouble and upset Mr M has experienced. I agree 
that BestInvest couldve been better at communicating, and it must have been frustrating to 
find out there were other options available that Mr M missed out on. I also note that 
BestInvest first told Mr M that the corporate action was mandatory and that there werent 
other options available to him which wasnt correct. But I think that £150 is fair compensation 
for the trouble and upset this misinformation and lack of communication caused Mr M. 
My final decision
Tilney Investment Management Services Limited trading as Bestinvest has already made an 
offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So, my decision is that Tilney Investment Management Services Limited trading as 
Bestinvest should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman