DRN-2452953
The complaint
Mr W complains that he didnt receive the best rate from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
when his introductory mortgage rate ended.
What happened
Mr W tells us that his two year introductory mortgage rate was coming to an end in January 
2020 and he searched the market for the latest offers. He saw his existing mortgage 
provider, Barclays were offering a rate of 1.78% on the type of mortgage he wanted. He says 
he also noted that Barclays were offering a better rate of 1.69% for the same mortgage to 
new customers. 
Mr W tells us he proceeded at the 1.78% rate for existing customers and that his mortgage 
account was updated quickly and efficiently. He received a Revised Payment Notice (RPN) 
confirming his new mortgage payment and says he was shocked to see the first line of the 
letter, highlighted in bold, which stated All our best mortgage rates are available to existing 
customers. Mr W adds that as he knew this wasnt accurate he complained to Barclays.
Barclays responded to Mr W and acknowledged that the RPN does state "all our best 
mortgage rates are available to our existing customers". In its response Barclays said I 
would like to assure you there are different rates applicable to existing customers and new 
customers. However, In order to apply for the rates you must be eligible, either as a new or 
existing customer. Therefore, I can understand why you feel this way, after reviewing the 
letter you have been sent. I can confirm this is bank policy and I am unable to uphold your 
complaint, as there has not been any bank error. It added that feedback would be passed to 
management.
Mr W wasnt happy with this response and said it didn't address the fact that a new customer 
could have received a rate of 1.69%, whereas he received a rate of 1.78% for the same 
product. And he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said he appreciated why Mr W felt he should be offered the lower rate and 
agreed that the wording on the RPN could be better. He explained the role of this service 
was to investigate complaints about regulated businesses but that we dont regulate financial 
businesses and that lenders can exercise their commercial judgement as to what rates it 
offers to customers. His view was that the issue was with the wording of the RPN rather than 
the details of the mortgage Mr W proceeded with and didnt feel it was reasonable to expect 
Barclays to offer Mr W the lower interest rate. He added that he felt it was reasonable for 
Barclays to provide feedback on the RPN wording to the relevant department. 
Mr W remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Barclays, like many lenders has a range of different product lines including 
new purchases, rate switches and internal re-mortgages. In each of these product lines they 
have a number of other variables including different fixed terms, fees and maximum loan to 
value.
Mr W already held a mortgage and was looking for the best deal he could find now his 
introductory rate was ending. The product he applied for was a rate switch and had a five 
year fixed term at an initial interest rate of 1.78% with no fee and a maximum loan to value 
of 60%. 
Ive seen that Barclays were also offering an initial rate of 1.69% for new purchases with a 
five year fixed term, no fee and maximum loan to value of 60%. This mortgage is available 
for customers that are taking up new mortgage borrowing, it is not available to customers re-
mortgaging or doing a rate switch. 
Mr W raised his complaint when he saw the RPN said All our best mortgage rates are 
available to our existing customers. I can understand why Mr W was unhappy to see this as 
he couldnt benefit from the 1.69% rate. And Barclays have agreed to provide feedback to 
the relevant department, and I think this is reasonable. From what Ive seen the 1.69% rate 
is for new purchases rather than rate switches or re-mortgages, and Mr W wasnt making a 
house purchase. Its not unusual for mortgage lenders to have different rates available for 
existing customers and new customers, and that in itself isnt inherently unfair.
In response to our investigators view Mr W says he is paying an additional £56.19pa for his 
mortgage compared to the lower rate he saw. And Barclays should either place his mortgage 
at the lower rate of 1.69% for the five year fixed rate period or refund him £280.95, this being 
the amount he feels he is overpaying over the five year term. Im mindful that Mr W tells us 
he decided to proceed with the mortgage at a rate of 1.78% even though he believed a lower 
rate was available for new customers. So he was aware of the interest rate he would be 
paying. And given that I dont think its unfair for Barclays to offer a different rate to its 
existing customers than what it offers to new customers, I dont think its reasonable for 
Barclays to reduce Mr Ws interest rate or refund the difference between the payments.
In the circumstances of this case Im satisfied that Barclays havent acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman