DRN-4386035
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that Coventry Building Society registered a marker against 
them at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In 2020, a mortgage application was made to Coventry in Mr and Mrs As name, via a 
regulated mortgage broker and a regulated solicitor, to purchase a property in Mr and 
Mrs As local area.
The application was made using Mr and Mrs As correct details, and their genuine photo ID, 
with a signed declaration. The broker said theyd spoken to Mr and Mrs A over the phone 
and recalled being introduced to them by a previous customer who knew them. Coventry 
were provided with Mr and Mrs As bank statements and payslips, but found these had been 
falsified to make it look like Mr and Mrs A were in a better financial situation than they were, 
in order that Mr and Mrs A would be granted a better mortgage. Coventry checked the 
documents with HMRC and with Mr and Mrs As own bank to confirm the forgery.
Coventry declined the application and registered a marker at CIFAS for false documentation.
In late 2022, Mr and Mrs A complained. They denied ever making the application or 
providing the documents. They suggested their phone might have been hacked, though they 
confirmed their phone and apps were password protected. They didnt know how someone 
had got hold of their ID documents, which they still had in their possession.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and 
Mrs A didnt agree. They now say they lost a laptop about six months before the application, 
which they now say was not password protected, and which may have allowed someone to 
steal their identity.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first note that technically speaking, this complaint really should have been dismissed 
due to a lack of a proper relationship between Mr and Mrs A and Coventry. But given that 
neither side have objected to us looking into the matter, we are rather late in the process 
already, and there are such strong feelings about the merits, on this occasion I will comment 
on the merits for the sake of giving both sides some closure.
In order to register this marker, Coventry were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr and Mrs A had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable 
grounds to believe that theyd provided falsified documents, which went beyond a suspicion 
or concern, and which had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered 
everything that both sides have said and provided, I find that Coventry did have sufficient 
grounds to register this marker. Ill explain why.
The application was made using Mr and Mrs As genuine photo ID, which they didnt lose 
and which matches up to the copies they provided our service. It was also made using bank 
statements which matched their real ones, aside from the parts which were altered to make 
their financial situation look better. A declaration was physically signed, and the signatures 
match up to both Mr and Mrs As genuine signatures on the ID theyve shown us. This 
strongly supports that this was a genuine application from Mr and Mrs A.
The application went through a genuine regulated mortgage broker, who said they spoke to 
Mr and Mrs A over the phone at the time. The phone numbers provided are the same phone 
numbers Mr and Mrs A still use now. Indeed, all of the contact details on the application 
were Mr and Mrs As genuine details, so all contact went to them. It is not likely or plausible 
that a fraudster would use Mr and Mrs As genuine phone numbers, email addresses and so 
on to falsely get credit on their behalf, as Mr and Mrs A would quickly receive contact and 
the fraud would be discovered long before the conveyancing process could ever finish.
The application was also made via a genuine regulated solicitor, local to Mr and Mrs A. Had 
the mortgage application gone forward, this solicitor would need to have verified Mr and 
Mrs As identity and the source of the deposit, and carried out fraud checks. I dont see how 
this plausibly could have been done if Mr and Mrs A were unaware of the application and 
werent putting forward the deposit themselves. So its not likely or plausible that a fraudster 
would even try this  theyd reasonably know they wouldnt get past the solicitor.
Further, even if the property purchase had somehow gone through without Mr and Mrs As 
consent, it would still have been Mr and Mrs As names on the deeds, and the property 
would then belong to them. So a fraudster would get no reasonable benefit from all this 
effort. Indeed, the applicants offered a deposit of over £150,000 to put the property in Mr and 
Mrs As name. So if this was a fraudster, theyd be effectively handing a six-figure sum to Mr 
and Mrs A. It is simply not credible that a fraudster would do that.
As far as I can see, the details on the application were correct  such as Mr and Mrs As 
personal details, contact details, financial details, employment details, and bank details  
aside from the information that was falsified in order to make their financial situation appear 
better. The property in question was in Mr and Mrs As local area. There is nothing which 
shows or substantiates that anyone other than Mr and Mrs A made this application, and the 
only party who realistically stood to benefit from this application was Mr and Mrs A.
Coventry sent Mr and Mrs A several letters about the application, keeping them up to date 
with what was happening and telling them to get in touch if they hadnt applied. These letters 
went to Mr and Mrs As correct address, which was verified as being correct via their bank 
and the voters roll. It is not likely that a fraudster would be able to intercept every single 
letter, as Mr and Mrs A suggested. Its most likely that Mr and Mrs A were aware of the 
application. They did not raise any issues with Coventry at the time. Again, this supports that 
the application was made with Mr and Mrs As knowledge and consent.Mr and Mrs A now say they lost a laptop some time beforehand, which didnt have a 
password. They never mentioned this before, so its difficult to take this latest testimony as 
being reliable. And even if they did lose a laptop, its still not likely or plausible that someone 
would then try to buy a property for Mr and Mrs A, including potentially putting forward huge 
sums of their own money for equity that would then all belong to Mr and Mrs A anyway. Its 
not likely or plausible that theyd do this using Mr and Mrs As genuine contact details and a 
genuine regulated broker and solicitor, and its not likely that theyd be able to so accurately 
replicate Mr and Mrs As wet signatures.
Realistically, the only likely and plausible explanation is that Mr and Mrs A made this 
application. This possibility is strongly supported by the evidence at hand. Whereas theres 
no evidence which reasonably shows or substantiates that anyone else applied.
Coventry checked the documents that Mr and Mrs A provided with their bank and with 
HMRC. Both organisations confirmed that the documents had been falsified in order to make 
Mr and Mrs As financial situation look better, so that Mr and Mrs A could get a better 
mortgage. Again, the only party who really stood to benefit from this was Mr and Mrs A. With 
that in mind, I find it was fair that Coventry denied the application and registered the 
appropriate marker with CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a 
difficult message for Mr and Mrs A to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the 
balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman