DRN-3427641
The complaint
Mr H complains about a fraud prevention marker recorded by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr H contacted a car dealer to buy a used vehicle. During their 
discussions, the dealer tried to secure borrowing for Mr H, to allow him to get the car. After 
several attempts with other lenders, the dealer and Mr H decided to pursue an application for 
a finance agreement with Volkswagen.
While the application was with Volkswagen, they asked Mr H to provide more information 
about his financial circumstances. So, Volkswagen asked Mr H to send them bank 
statements from one of his business accounts. Mr H says he asked one of his staff members 
to organise this, as he was overseas.
Mr H says his staff member initially submitted bank statements from a different business 
account, which he wasnt associated with. He also says the name and address on that bank 
statement was redacted. After learning of this, Mr H says the same staff member 
resubmitted the same statements again. Only this time they included Mr Hs name and 
address. This made it appear that Mr H was the holder of a bank account that wasnt actually 
his.
Once Volkswagen received the resubmitted bank account statements, they declined the 
application based on the information provided by Mr H. Additionally, Volkswagen recorded a 
fraud prevention marker with Cifas. Mr H didnt know about the marker recorded with Cifas 
and says he found out around six months later, when he applied for borrowing elsewhere.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr H complained to Volkswagen. They responded to say 
they acted correctly given that Mr H had provided bank account statements where the details 
had been altered. Mr H didnt accept this and brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs case and found that Volkswagen had treated 
Mr H fairly. He said the onus was on Mr H to make sure the information provided as part of 
the finance application was correct. He also concluded that it was fair of Volkswagen to have 
recorded the fraud prevention marker, with reference to Cifas own guidance about passing 
such information to them.
Mr H didnt agree. He said Volkswagen should have contacted him first, because he could 
have explained about the errors made by his staff member. He said the impact on his 
business was severe and would get worse if the marker wasnt removed by Volkswagen.
The investigator didnt change his conclusions and Mr Hs case has now been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Cifas marker
The type of Cifas marker that Volkswagen asked to be applied relates to the discrepancies 
they found during Mr Hs application. To file such a marker, Volkswagen are not required to 
prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but they must 
show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
Cifas guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and] 
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So, the relevant finding for me to make is whether I think there is sufficient evidence to 
conclude that Mr H provided incorrect information to try and secure borrowing. And in 
relation to this, where Volkswagen would be able to escalate its concerns to Cifas.
The finance application
Mr H applied for the finance for the car using his personal details, rather than in the name of 
a business. He says he provided Volkswagen with details of his personal bank account and 
thought it odd, that he was subsequently asked for statements from his business bank 
account.
Ive considered this further, along with the amount of the finance Mr H applied for and the 
deposit he intended to pay to the dealer. Having done so, I think it was reasonable for 
Volkswagen to ask further questions about Mr Hs income and expenditure. 
Lenders are required to carry out proportional checks, to satisfy themselves that any 
borrowing they provide is sustainable. Here, Volkswagen needed more supporting evidence 
from Mr H. So, I think it was fair for them to ask for more information about his financial 
circumstances.
To support the application, Mr H says he arranged for one of his office staff to send his 
business bank account statements to Volkswagen. He says she made an error, by sending 
statements for a separate business, which Mr H isnt part of. Mr H also says it was normal 
practice for his office worker to redact the name and address from any financial information 
being sent outside of his business.
I understand Mr Hs reasons for being cautious when sensitive information is passed 
between businesses. But, Mr H was looking to provide supporting documents in a finance 
agreement. So, I think it was reasonable for the information on the bank statement to show 
the relevant details.
Moreover, when Mr H became aware he needed to resubmit his business account 
statements, he says his member of staff made a further error. Mr H says instead of removing 
the redaction, the staff member copied his name and address onto the statements for the 
account that wasnt his.Having considered everything, I think incorrect information was sent to Volkswagen as part 
of the car finance application. The incorrect information made it appear that Mr H was the 
owner of a business account, which he wasnt actually connected to. So, on balance, I think 
Mr H provided Volkswagen with financial information which wasnt an accurate reflection of 
his financial circumstances.
I acknowledge where Mr H says he didnt actually provide the incorrect information, as it was 
a member of his office staff. I also understand Mr Hs reasons for making those 
arrangements, since he was overseas and says he didnt have access to the information. 
But, I think Mr H was responsible for providing the information needed by Volkswagen. The 
application was in his personal name. So, I think the onus was on him to make sure all the 
correct and relevant information Volkswagen had asked for, was sent to them to support the 
car finance application.
In all the circumstances, I think Volkswagen treated Mr H fairly when they asked for the 
specific statements and started to process the application, once Mr H had arranged for the 
information to be sent to them.
Volkswagens actions after declining the application
Soon after declining the application, Volkswagens records show they recorded the fraud 
prevention marker with Cifas. Mr H says Volkswagen should have contacted him before 
doing that, because he could have explained what had happened. He says its likely 
Volkswagen wouldnt have placed the marker with Cifas as result.
Ive concluded that Mr H had submitted incorrect information to Volkswagen as part of a car 
finance application. I think the use of that information was very important to the outcome of 
Volkswagens lending decision. And I also think the responsibility was on Mr H to provide 
accurate bank statements to Volkswagen.
Overall, I think the evidence was clear, relevant and rigorous such that Volkswagen could 
confidently report what had happened to the police. After thinking carefully about the 
evidence they had, I also think Volkswagen had reasonable ground to believe Mr H had 
used the incorrect information to form part of his car finance application.
Had Volkswagen sought to ask more questions of Mr H, I think they would have still been 
faced with the same situation. In other words, Volkswagen still needed to consider that the 
details submitted by Mr H were from another business bank account, with the account 
holders details changed for his.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Volkswagen treated Mr H unfairly by recording the 
fraud prevention marker with Cifas, without asking further questions of him beforehand.
I do of course acknowledge the very difficult personal circumstances Mr H has described to 
us and the worries he faces. But, when looking at all the evidence, I think Volkswagen have 
treated him fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman