DRN-2751993
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA dealt with a request under their 
Buyer Protection scheme.
What happened
Mr M booked some accommodation, direct with the owner, using a holiday rentals company 
Ill call A. He paid two payments of £196.93  on 13 July and 25 August 2020 - through his 
account with PayPal for this. Mr M was unhappy with the accommodation and, on 8 
September 2020 he complained to the property owner. He then escalated his complaint to A, 
after which the property owner offered him £125 compensation.
On 25 September 2020, Mr M complained to PayPal. He was unhappy with the quality of the 
accommodation offered and asked for a full refund of what hed paid, under their Buyer 
Protection scheme. But, on 13 October 2020, PayPal said the accommodation was 
consistent with the advert and the claim wasnt covered by the Buyer Protection scheme. Mr 
M wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator explained the terms of PayPals Buyer Protection scheme and how they 
defined whether an item ordered (the accommodation) was Significantly Not as Described. 
He also explained that an item not meeting expectations doesnt mean a refund is due.
The investigator said PayPal had considered Mr Ms claim, but they didnt think it met the 
Significantly Not as Described criteria laid down in the Buyer Protection scheme. So he 
thought PayPal had acted reasonably by denying the claim. And he didnt think the offer of 
£125 from the property owner meant that either the owner or A accepted the accommodation 
wasnt as described. So he didnt think PayPal needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He thought the accommodation was Significantly Not 
as Described and he pointed out that the investigator hadnt mentioned the net curtain issue 
when he listed why Mr M wasnt happy with the accommodation in his view. Mr M has also 
referred to a previous complaint hes had against PayPal, where they wrongly failed to apply 
a refund. He feels this shows that PayPal can make mistakes  just like they have now.
Because Mr M didnt agree, this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at a complaint like this, Im considering whether PayPal applied their policy 
fairly given all of the circumstances. And each complaint is considered on its individual 
merits. So, just because Mr M has successfully complained about PayPal in the past, it 
doesnt mean that PayPal have automatically got it wrong in this instance.
And, having reviewed the evidence, Im in agreement with the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe 
its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M was unhappy with the quality of the accommodation, and he initially complained to the 
property owner. He also complained to A, after which the property owner offered him £125 
compensation for any inconvenience hed suffered. Ive not seen anywhere that this offer 
was an admission of liability, either by the property owner or A, that the accommodation 
wasnt as advertised. So I wouldnt expect PayPal to take it as being one.
Mr M made a claim through PayPals Buyer Protection. The terms of this scheme state:
 
When you buy something from a seller who accepts PayPal, you may be eligible for a 
refund under PayPal Buyer Protection  PayPal Buyer Protection may apply when 
you encounter these specific problems with a transaction:
You received an item, but the item isnt what you ordered (referred to as a 
Significantly Not as Described claim).
An item may be considered Significantly Not as Described if:
The item is materially different from the sellers description of it.
You received a completely different item.
The condition of the item was misrepresented.
The item was missing major parts or features.
The item is unusable in its received state.
An item may not be considered Significantly Not as Described if:
The item was properly described but did not meet your expectations.
Mr M complained that the sofa bed wasnt clean, there was bulb missing in a lamp, another 
lamp was broken, a shower holder was broken, there wasnt enough bed linen, the wi-fi only 
supported three devices, and a window lock was broken (which he was able to fix). He was 
also unhappy that there were bugs and very small ants in the property. Mr M has also 
complained there were only net curtains, which meant a lack of privacy in the property.
PayPal declined Mr Ms claim because they considered the property to be materially similar 
to the description, and because the property not meeting Mr Ms expectations is an excluded 
item from the Buyer Protection scheme.
I appreciate that Mr M was unhappy with the property, and this affected his enjoyment of his 
holiday. But Ive also seen that, after raising the problems with the property owner, she 
arranged for a cleaner to visit the property and to sort out the wi-fi issue.
A asked Mr M to provide photographic or video evidence to support his claim, and I havent 
seen anything to show me that he did this. And Mr M has said hes no longer able to access 
As booking site, so he cant get a copy of the original advert.
From reviewing the evidence Mr M supplied to PayPal, Ive seen a single picture of the 
property from As website, which shows the inside of the main living area. Mr M has also 
provided a photo of the outside of the property.Ive also seen a very short video showing the patio doors that separate the outside seating 
area from the main living space. And this video shows a net curtain on the patio doors was 
closed. But the main photo of the living space shows both net curtains and a heavier curtain 
on the patio doors. Unfortunately, from the angle of the video and because it was taken from 
outside the property, not inside, it isnt possible to see if any heavier curtains are also hung 
on the patio doors.
Given this evidence, Im satisfied theres not enough for PayPal to have been able to 
conclude that the property was materially different from the advert. Its not disputed that Mr 
M stayed at the property he booked, so he didnt receive something different, and without the 
advert I cant say if there was any misrepresentation. Mr M hasnt said that the property 
wasnt usable, only that a few items in the property werent working as they should. And this 
wouldnt be classed as missing major parts or features.
Given the above, Im satisfied Mr Ms claim doesnt fulfil the criteria of PayPals Buyer 
Protection scheme. And the fact hes dissatisfied with the property is a scheme exclusion, so 
this wouldnt entitle him to a refund. So I wont be asking PayPal to do anything more. And 
its now for Mr M to decide whether to accept the offer from the property owner or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above uphold Mr Ms complaint. PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman