DRN-3955134
The complaint
Mr T complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited hasnt fully settled a claim he made on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
During October 2021, Mr T was on a trip abroad in a country Ill call S. Unfortunately, a bag 
was stolen from his car boot, as the result of a likely distraction theft. Mr Ts bag contained 
his passport, house and car keys and a computer. Mr T had to stay in S for an extra night 
while he arranged a temporary passport and incurred additional travel and accommodation 
costs.
Mr T made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs of the temporary and 
replacement passports; his door keys and his computer.
Astrenska ultimately offered to partly settle Mr Ts claim. It agreed to consider the costs of Mr 
Ts additional accommodation and transport under the Passport, documents and driving 
licence section of the policy. But it said the cost of the temporary and replacement passports 
werent covered by the terms of the contract. And it considered the Police report Mr T had 
provided. It noted that this only referred to the stolen passport. So it didnt agree to cover the 
cost of Mr Ts computer.
Mr T was unhappy with Astrenskas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the cost of 
Mr Ts temporary or replacement passports were covered by the policy terms. And while she 
hadnt considered the police report, she thought it was most likely that Mr Ts personal 
possessions claim would be specifically excluded from cover. Thats because she 
considered the items had been left unattended.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 January 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought Astrenska had treated Mr T fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ts policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Astrenska treated 
him fairly.
It seems to me that there are two key issues for me to decide. First, should Astrenska cover 
the costs of replacing Mr Ts passport and his temporary passport? And second, is it fair for 
Astrenska to decline to cover Mr Ts personal possessions claim? Ill consider each in turn.
The passport claim
Ill first consider the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr T and Astrenska. Page 27 sets out the Passport, documents and driving 
licence section of the policy. This says:
We will pay up to the limit shown in your policy schedule if your passport, visa, travel 
documents or driving licence are accidentally damaged, lost, stolen or destroyed during your 
trip.
We will pay reasonable additional travel, communication and accommodation costs while 
you arrange a replacement or temporary replacement.
This section of the policy has a limit of £350. In my view, Astrenska has made it clear that 
this section covers additional travel, accommodation and communication costs a 
policyholder incurs while they obtain replacement documents. Its common ground that Mr T 
did incur additional accommodation and travel costs because he couldnt take his original 
return flight when his passport was stolen. So its appropriate for Astrenska to deal with 
these particular costs in line with the policy terms and less the applicable excess.
However, this section of the policy doesnt cover the costs either of a replacement passport 
or the temporary passport Mr T had to arrange. And so I dont think it was unfair for 
Astrenska to decline to cover these particular costs.
The personal possessions claim
Page 31 of the contract sets out the personal possessions cover  which would include the 
claim for Mr Ts laptop and keys (although consequential losses such as keys are specifically 
excluded by the policy terms in any event). This says that Astrenska will cover personal 
possessions which are damaged, lost or stolen during a trip.
However, this section of the policy also includes a list of special conditions. One of these 
says:
You must report any loss as soon as possible to the PoliceYou must get a Police report 
formwithin 7 days.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to 
show that theyve suffered a financial loss as a result of an event which is covered by the 
terms of their insurance contract. So Astrenska is reasonably entitled to be satisfied, on 
balance, that Mr T both lost the personal possessions he claimed for and in the way he said. 
Theres no dispute that Mr T obtained a police report following the theft, which he sent to 
Astrenska. Ive seen a translated copy of that report. But the report only refers to the stolen 
passport. Theres no reference to a stolen computer, bag or keys. I note Mr T says he gave 
the police a full list of the stolen items and its unfortunate that these havent been recorded 
on the report.
As it stands then, theres simply no police report or official documentation which shows that 
Mr T suffered the loss of a bag or his computer. In the absence of these items being listed as 
stolen on the police report, I dont think it was unreasonable for Astrenska to conclude that 
this part of Mr Ts claim didnt meet the policy terms. I dont currently think that Mr T has 
provided enough evidence to show that this part of the claim is covered by the policy. And so 
it follows that I dont think it was unfair for Astrenska to turn down this part of Mr Ts claim.
Id add that even if this part of Mr Ts claim had been accepted, the computer wouldve been 
covered up to the overall gadget limit of £250, in line with the deductions for age set out in 
the policy booklet. As Mr Ts computer appears to have been bought in 2016, it wouldve 
been subject to the cost of a new, equivalent replacement, less 85%. So its very unlikely 
that Mr T wouldve been paid the full costs hed claimed for the computer.Overall, despite sympathising with Mr Ts position, I currently think that Astrenska has 
handled his claim fairly and Im not intending to direct it to pay anything more. If it hasnt yet 
settled Mr Ts additional travel and accommodation costs, it should now do so and explain to 
Mr T how it calculated the settlement.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence or comments they wanted 
me to consider.
Astrenska didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr T disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, he said Astrenska hadnt made 
any offer to settle any part of his claim during the 15 months the claim had been ongoing. He 
said there was no exclusion in the policy for the costs of replacement passports  if he 
hadnt obtained these documents, hed still be abroad. He told us hed had no control over 
what was written in the police report. Hed explained to the police what had been stolen and 
hed provided Astrenska with the relevant receipts. He didnt think it was reasonable for me 
to conclude that Astrenska could decline to cover his personal possessions because they 
werent listed on the police report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, I still think Astrenska treated him fairly 
and Ill explain why.
Mr T says that Astrenska hasnt settled any part of his claim  including the travel and 
accommodation costs. It agreed to review and consider these costs in its final response 
letter of May 2022. As I set out in my provisional decision, Astrenska should now settle Mr 
Ts additional travel and accommodation costs in line with the Passport, documents and 
driving licence section of the policy, if it hasnt already done so. Thats because it 
acknowledged that it should have accepted this part of Mr Ts claim at first instance. 
Astrenska should also clearly explain to Mr T how its calculated settlement. 
I appreciate this section of the policy doesnt specifically exclude the costs of a temporary 
passport or replacement passport. I also acknowledge that without these documents, Mr T 
wouldve been unable to travel back to the UK. However, I think Astrenska has clearly set 
out the costs it covers under this section of the policy and its chosen not to cover the cost of 
replacement passport documents. So I dont find that the absence of a specific exclusion for 
these costs means that they should be covered.
It's clear that Mr T feels strongly that he told the police which items had been stolen and that 
its therefore unreasonable for Astrenska to decline to cover his personal possessions claim. 
I accept he had little control over what the police chose to record on the report. But it 
remains the case that Astrenskas reasonably entitled to be satisfied that Mr T lost the items 
hes claimed for. The police report is contemporaneous, documentary, official evidence from 
the time of the theft. This report only refers to the lost passport. And as Ive explained, the 
contract terms specifically require the provision of a police report in personal possession 
claims. As such, theres no official documentation to demonstrate, on balance, that Mr Ts 
computer or other items were stolen. So I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Astrenska to conclude that Mr T hadnt met the policy terms or shown that his personal 
possessions claim fell within the scope of cover.  And this means I remain persuaded that it 
was fair for Astrenska to turn down Mr Ts personal possessions claim.Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ts position, I still find that Astrenska has 
handled his claim fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman