DRN-2063263
The complaint
Ms D believes Clydesdale Financial Services Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan 
shed applied for.
Ms D is being represented in her complaint by her son. But, for ease of reference, Ill refer to 
both Ms D and her son as Ms D throughout my decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 23 July 2020, a copy of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary I said that Ms D had applied for a loan with Clydesdale, which was used by a 
family member to purchase a car. Ms D believed she was only a guarantor for this loan, but 
theres nothing in any of the paperwork to indicate this was the case.
I didnt think Clydesdale had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when they 
approved the loan. But, after looking at Ms Ds financial situation at the time she took the 
loan out, had Clydesdale carried out further checks theyd have found that the loan was 
affordable. So I didnt think Clydesdale were irresponsible when they approved the loan. And 
I didnt intend on asking them to do anything more.
The family member who used the money to buy the car initially gave Ms D the payments for 
the loan. But they stopped when they lost their job. I said that, because the loan was in Ms 
Ds name, she was responsible for the payments. But I also said that this wouldve been the 
case if Ms D was only a guarantor, as she thought she was  a guarantor is ultimately 
responsible for payments if the person who took out the loan doesnt pay them. So I didnt 
think the loan being in Ms Ds name, instead of her being a guarantor, made any difference 
to the situation she now finds herself in.
Ms D is currently in financial difficulties and struggling to pay the loan. But I didnt think 
Clydesdale were responsible for this, as reasonable checks wouldve shown the loan to be 
affordable at the time it was taken out. I said Id expect Clydesdale to deal sensitively with 
anyone in financial difficulties, and I was glad theyd written off the outstanding loan balance. 
But this wasnt something Id expect them to do.
Clydesdale had offered Ms D £150 for the delays in dealing with her complaint, and I said it 
was for Ms D to decide whether to accept this offer or not. 
Both Ms D and Clydesdale have been given the opportunity to comment on my provisional 
decision. Mrs D agreed with my provisional decision. 
Clydesdale didnt disagree with my decision, but they said Ms Ds account hadnt been 
written off. They explained that, while the annual statement they sent in June 2020 contains 
the system entry policy write off, this only means the account had been transferred to their 
recoveries team. And Ms D still owes the outstanding loan balance. Clydesdale accept that 
an entry of this type can cause confusion {but} the account has not been written off.
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms D believes Clydesdale Financial Services Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan 
shed applied for.
Ms D is being represented in her complaint by her son. But, for ease of reference, Ill refer to 
both Ms D and her son as Ms D throughout my decision.
what happened
In June 2014, Ms D applied for a loan of almost £15,000 with Clydesdale, over 5 years, with 
payments of £312 a month. The loan was used by a family member to purchase a used car.  
Ms D believed she was only acting as a guarantor for the family members loan, but the loan 
was provided in her name. The family member was initially giving Ms D the money to pay the 
loan but, when they lost their job, this stopped. And Clydesdale chased Ms D for payment.
Ms D has complained that Clydesdale didnt act responsibly when approving the loan. She 
says it wasnt affordable as she was retired and on benefits. And being chased for payments 
has caused her a lot of stress. Ms D has asked that Clydesdale waive the outstanding 
balance on the loan and refund her the charges and interest shes paid.
Clydesdale say they adhere to a strict lending criteria and Ms Ds application met their lending 
requirements. But they offered Ms D a goodwill gesture of £150 for the delay in replying to her 
complaint. Ms D didnt accept this and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for us to consider.
Our investigator said there was nothing on the paperwork to indicate Ms D was only applying 
to be a guarantor. And even if she was a guarantor, shed still be liable for the payments if 
they werent being made. But he thought the loan wasnt affordable to Ms D at the time she 
applied for it and that Clydesdale hadnt done proportionate checks before approving it. He 
recommended Clydesdale refund Ms D any payments shed made. He also thought they 
should pay her £200 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
Clydesdale didnt agree. They felt theyd fully considered all of Ms Ds circumstances when 
approving the loan and that it was affordable. They say the checks they carried out were 
proportionate to the loan being provided, and they believe theyve carried out their regulatory 
obligations. So theyve asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
After making the request for a final decision, Clydesdale have written off the outstanding 
balance. Ms D has asked that an ombudsman still considers the case because she believes 
that compensation is also due.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to consider 
whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair. And 
if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. Ive seen the paperwork for the loan, and theres nothing to indicate she was applying to be a 
guarantor for someone else. But, even if she had been a guarantor, she still wouldve been 
ultimately responsible for making the payments. So, when the family member stopped giving 
Ms D the money for the loan, she was chased for payment. And this still wouldve been the 
case if she was only a guarantor.
Ive seen the application form provided to Clydesdale by the broker who sold the loan. This 
shows Ms D as being both retired and employed. This is something Id expect Clydesdale to 
have queried, but Ive not seen anything to show they did. The application form also says Ms 
Ds gross income was £15,000 a year (equivalent to £1,096 pick-up a month).
Ive also seen a copy of the credit file Clydesdale considered as part of the application 
process. This shows Ms D was paying £60 a month towards another loan and had an 
outstanding credit card balance of £515. But it doesnt verify her income or other outgoings.
Clydesdale have said that Ms Ds credit file was accessed and her credit score was deemed 
sufficiently high enough for her to be considered a low risk borrower. But I dont think this 
was sufficient. The application said Ms D was a tenant, but Clydesdale made no effort to ask 
how much her rent or other essential outgoings (council tax, utility bills etc.) were. Because of 
this, I dont think Clydesdale could fairly say that the loan was affordable. They shouldve 
carried out more checks.
Ms D has provided copies of her bank statements for January to August 2014, to show her 
income and expenditure around the time of the loan application. This shows weekly, bi-weekly 
and four-weekly income equivalent to £1,666 a month  substantially more than was declared 
on the application form. This income is from pension and benefits.
The bank statements also show the loan and credit card payments, as well as rent and other 
essential and regular monthly bills. I calculate these to total £895 a month. Which would leave 
Ms D £771 a month disposable income. Taking the Clydesdale payment of £312 from this, Ms 
D would be left with £459 a month for food, clothing and other general expenses  about £100 
a week.
So, while I dont think that Clydesdale carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when 
they approved the loan, had they done so it wouldve shown the loan was affordable. 
Because of this, I dont think that Clydesdale did anything wrong by approving the loan  the 
decision wasnt impacted by the checks they did instead of those they shouldve done. And I 
dont think they were irresponsible in approving the loan.
I appreciate that Ms D struggled to pay the loan when her family member stopped paying her 
the money to do so. But I cant hold Clydesdale responsible for this  reasonable checks 
wouldve shown the loan was affordable. But I would expect Clydesdale to deal sensitively 
with anyone in financial difficulties. So Im glad that theyve decided to write-off the 
outstanding loan balance. But I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Its now for Ms D to decide whether to accept their offer of £150 for the delays in dealing with 
her complaint, or not.
my provisional decision
For the reasons explained above I dont intend to uphold Ms Ds complaint against 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I agree that an entry on a statement saying policy write off will cause confusion when the 
account hasnt actually been written off. And from Clydesdales comments it would seem that 
this isnt uncommon with their customers. I cant tell Clydesdale how to conduct their 
business, so I cant tell them to change how they classify things on their systems and 
statements. But if this is causing issues to multiple customers, Id expect them to consider 
providing an explanation on statements as to what policy write off actually means. 
But, as I said in my provisional decision, I thought the loan was affordable at the time Ms D 
took it out. And I wouldnt expect a financial business to write-off a loan just because it was 
no longer affordable. So I cant say that Clydesdale should write-off this loan given Ms Ds 
current circumstances, even if the way the transfer of the balance to their recoveries 
department is shown on their statements indicates that the loan has been written off.
And I cant tell Clydesdale what to do about Ms Ds current financial situation. But I would 
expect them to deal with the matter sensitively and work with Ms D to agree an affordable 
repayment plan.
So, the comments Ive received dont change my view that Clydesdale didnt act 
irresponsibly when they approved Ms Ds loan application. And it remains her choice 
whether to accept their offer of £150 or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint about Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman