DRN-3106331
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that Ulster Bank Ltd made mistakes in dealing with its 
account leading to financial loss and inconvenience.
What happened
The director of D had opened an account for a different company with Ulster Bank. Within a 
matter of days, he contacted Ulster Bank and told it he wanted to change the name on the 
account to that of D. He completed relevant forms and also applied for an overdraft. He was 
later told that as D was a different legal entity he would need to open a new account. By then 
he had arranged for the other company to be dissolved. And so, he couldnt access Ds 
money in the account until that company had been restored. Costs have been incurred 
which D wants to recover.
Ulster Bank said it hadnt made a mistake as it couldnt change the name on an account to a 
different legal entity. But it said that its service could have been better, and it paid £50 in 
compensation to D.
Our investigator recommended that compensation of £150 should be paid. Hed listened to 
calls between the director and Ulster Bank. And the director had referred to a change in the 
business name and not to a different legal entity being involved.. He didnt think Ulster Bank 
could be responsible for the costs of restoring the other company. But he thought that staff 
could have done more to assist, and this was fairly reflected in higher compensation.
D didnt agree. It said that it wanted this escalated and that the payment doesnt reflect the 
cost of its overdraft fee. It said that Ulster Bank had an inability to communicate effectively 
and D had demonstrated the costs involved in restoring the other company to the register so 
that Ds money could be accessed.
my provisional decision
 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 October 2021. I set out below what I 
said.
Id also listened to the available call recordings between D and Ulster Bank. I agreed that the 
director didnt say that D was a different legal entity to that company holding the existing 
account. And Ulster Bank staff understood the position to be that this was a name change to 
D. Staff seemed to note that this was a relatively new account.
Ulster Bank sent forms for D to complete a name change on the account which the director 
took to a branch in October 2019. The director could see these hadnt been dealt with as the 
name hadnt changed and contacted Ulster Bank and was told that these were being 
addressed. He explains that he was then told that the forms werent completed correctly and 
resubmitted them in November 2019. Ulster Bank wrote to D on 9 December 2019 to say 
that D would need another account. In January 2020 D discovered that the account it was 
using had been frozen.
Id noted from public records that the process to dissolve the other company was started 
after the first request for the change in mandate had been made. But this was before D had 
confirmation that the name on the account had been changed. So, it reasonably knew that 
its money was being paid into an account for a different legal entity. The decision to dissolve 
the other company before the new arrangement for D had been confirmed was one for the 
other company and not something Id expect Ulster Bank to give guidance on. So, I didnt 
consider Ulster Bank should be responsible for the costs of needing to restore that company 
even if those were paid by D.
Having said that I thought there was the opportunity for Ulster Bank to realise what was 
happening earlier on. I said this because D had provided a business plan and had applied 
for an overdraft in its name. A fee for this of £150 was charged. So, I thought it reasonable 
that Ulster Bank would notice that the legal entity applying for the overdraft was different to 
that on the account. And wouldnt process that application further and take the fee until this 
had been addressed. My understanding was that business banking management services 
are provided online or by phone. So, the extent of checking of any application in branch is 
limited. The director had visited a branch and it was likely again not clear to the branch what 
the full request was. But when the application was sent to the head office and first rejected 
as not being complete I thought again there was the opportunity for what happened to have 
been identified. By December 2019 however, I thought D also reasonably knew that it didnt 
have an account in its name and that the other company would be dissolved. I thought that 
gave it a potential opportunity to access its funds and make other arrangements before that 
account was frozen.
my assessment
In its complaint to Ulster Bank D had asked for the costs of restoring the other company of 
£1,500 to be paid and Id explained above why I didnt consider that to be appropriate here. 
It has asked for a refund of the overdraft fee of £150. I thought that is appropriate as there 
was an error made in processing that application as it was to be applied to an account in the 
name of a different legal entity. I worked on the basis that D incurred this cost.  
D has asked for costs of the time of the director in dealing with this at his professional rates. 
I needed to explain that we rarely make awards for time spent and not then at professional 
rates. But I took into account the inconvenience caused to D by the time the director did 
spend on this matter and for going through an application for an overdraft when it was 
technically unable to access that overdraft or legitimately use the account. Ulster Bank then 
reasonably knew from the business plan that funds being paid into the account were from 
Ds trading and took no action about this. Had D been told the position then it could have 
taken steps to mitigate the effect. And although Ulster Banks staff responded to what D said 
given that the account was for a limited company with hindsight Ulster Bank recognises it 
could have done more. Taking all this into account in my provisional decision I said I 
intended to require an additional payment for inconvenience to D of £200 further to the £50 
that has been paid already and which together with the fee refund totals £400.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ulster Bank didnt make any further comments.
The director of D made a number of points on its behalf. He emphasised that he had been 
asked to complete the form on multiple occasions and so there were missed opportunities. 
He said he had made clear when he applied for the overdraft that this was for D and what the entity name was and had arranged for D to pay £150 for this. He accepted he hadnt 
explicitly said that this was a change in legal entity, but he had explained the position to 
branch staff and he questioned why if this was only a name change he needed to go back to 
a branch.
The director said he wasnt sure if Ulster Bank had cherry picked the call recordings 
provided to this service. And it had failed to follow up on things when the account was 
frozen. It hasnt closed the account as he requested and had not paid any money out or 
acknowledged his communications. He emphasised that the stress and business impact of 
what happened cant even be quantified.
In a further response he said that he wanted Ulster Bank to provide him or this service with 
the procedures for an entity or name change so it could be established whether it followed 
them. He said he had taken legal advice and had been told that this had happened on other 
occasions.
I have thought about what the director has said on behalf of D. It is a matter for this service 
to decide what information to request for its investigation and I am only considering what 
happened here. And I dont consider that looking further into the procedures of Ulster Bank 
would assist. Clearly what should have happened is that it be identified that D was a different 
legal entity. The director accepts that he didnt mention this, and I have already said that 
staff wouldnt necessarily have realised this and have referred especially to this being a new 
account. I have already agreed with D that this should have come to light at the time of an 
application for an overdraft and I didnt need any further evidence from Ulster Bank to decide 
on that.
I cant know if there were other calls that havent been provided. And thats especially if D 
cant help identify them and explain what was said in any that would have made a difference 
here. I have reviewed the calls that are available.
This complaint is from D which as is now clear is a different legal entity to the company 
operating the account. So, I cant consider complaint points here from that other company 
about not receiving any funds outstanding. Although my understanding is that funds had 
been withdrawn once that company had been reinstated to the register of companies. The 
director would need to contact Ulster Bank if there is an account still open and funds to be 
paid. And I also cant consider any personal impact on the director of what happened as he 
isnt the complainant here either.
I looked in detail at his claim for compensation for D. I also indicated that I took the position 
that the cost of the overdraft fee had been incurred by D as the potential customer and this is 
unchallenged by Ulster Bank. I have reviewed what I said and Im afraid I take the same 
view about compensation and for the same reasons as before.
I make clear that Ulster Bank must pay the compensation to D and not into an account it 
holds for a different legal entity. The director has referred to taking legal advice and if he 
doesnt accept my decision he is free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant 
time limits.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Ulster Bank Ltd to pay D a further 
£350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman