DRN-4453794
The complaint
Mr E has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited regarding a 
total loss settlement it paid for his car.
What happened
Mr Es car was damaged in early March 2023 and he made a claim to Admiral. Admiral felt 
his car was a total loss. It felt a fair market value for the car was £39,425. It said it would pay 
this to Mr E less the excess and less an amount to clear the vehicles finance. It was late 
June when Admiral paid the settlement to Mr E. 
Mr E was unhappy. He thought he should have had a courtesy car whilst Admiral decided 
the claim. Admiral said he wasnt entitled to one under the policy (because his car wasnt 
repaired/repairable). Overall it was the time it had taken Admiral to settle the claim that had 
frustrated Mr E. That, along with the fact he felt its market value wasnt fair. He felt it was too 
low, that he wouldnt be able to replace his car for that sum. He noted cars like his for sale 
were advertised for £42,000 - £45,000. He was also aware that his local dealer had recently 
offered him £41,500 for his car  meaning it would sell it on for more than that sum.
Admiral said it had relied on two motor valuation guides to arrive at the market value (an 
average of the two). It felt that was fair. But it accepted there had been some delay in it 
making its settlement. So it said it would pay Mr E £677.46, being a sum for interest applied 
to the market value figure across the delay period. Also £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Mr E remained dissatisfied about the market value and time which had been 
taken. He complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator noted Admiral had only referenced two of four commonly available motor 
guides. She noted the other two gave slightly higher values, the uppermost being £41,410. 
She also noted Mr E had provided adverts for cars similar to his, one being for £42,380. She 
was also mindful of the purchase offer from the local dealer. She said bearing all that in 
mind, a figure at the top end of all of the motor guide values seemed reasonable. Noting the 
purchase offer from the local dealer, she said Admiral should use that sum as the fair market 
value for Mr Es car. She said Admiral should pay Mr E £2,027, the difference between the 
market value it had applied and the one she felt was fair, plus interest. She also thought it 
should pay a further £100 compensation.
Mr E said he accepted the view. Admiral said it disagreed with the revised market value. It 
felt including adverts and the dealer offer didnt, in its view, present a fair outcome. It said it 
would increase its offer to an average of the three guide values referenced by our 
Investigator. So it offered an increased market value of £40,087. Mr E was asked if hed be 
prepared to accept that and he said he was not. He reiterated that his car would have been 
sold for more than £41,500 by his local dealer (had it bought his undamaged car from him).
The complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the complaint I find my view is the same as our Investigator. In short 
Admirals offer, based on only two of the four motor valuation guides was unfair and 
unreasonable. Like our Investigator Ive then thought about what a fair and reasonable 
market value is.   
There are four motor guide valuations available. They range from £39,245 (the lower of the 
two used by Admiral) to £41,410 (the higher of the two viewed by our Investigator). The 
motor valuation guides can be really useful tools in determining market values because the 
figures they return are based on a lot of nationwide sales data. 
Using all four valuations gives the widest range of data on which to base a market value 
decision. But refencing adverts and any other relevant data available too can also be vital to 
ensure a fair value is reached. That type of data can help determine, that even given that 
wide range of detail, the values returned are reliable indicators of a fair market value. 
Particularly if there is a difference in the values returned, as is the case here. Although 
I accept there isnt a big difference.
In this situation the other available data can help determine if its fair to apply an average 
sum, as Admiral has sought to (both in its original settlement and its amended offer), or if a 
settlement at the top end of the range is fair.
Here I note that Mr E presented two adverts for cars for sale; one at £44,995 and one, 
referenced by our Investigator at £42,380. This latter one alone being more than £3,000 
more than what Admiral originally felt was a fair market value. Even if that car does not sell 
for quite that sum, its difficult to see it selling for much less. Especially not when put in light 
of Mr Es local dealer offering to buy his car  not a car similar to his, but his exact car  for 
£41,500. 
As Mr E pointed out, the dealer would then add a mark up on that sum for sale. Whilst it isnt 
clear exactly how much that mark-up would have been, in the currently competitive 
second-hand car market it seems unlikely that a dealer would allow for much negotiation on 
their asking price. So I dont think Mr Es car would have been sold for less than £41,500.
Setting the above data against the motor guide valuations shows that applying an average of 
those sums doesnt offer a fair market value. The average of £40,087 is still quite lot lower 
than the uppermost guide value and that other available data. The other data discussed, 
particularly the dealer offer, shows that the uppermost value returned is most likely indicative 
of a fair market value. That is £41,410. Given the dealer offer though, I think its fair, on this 
occasion, to exceed the guide value slightly and view that proffered sum of £41,500 as fair 
market value for Mr Es car. I think Admiral should pay Mr E £2,027  the difference between 
its market value of £39,425 and the sum Ive found to be fair and reasonable of £41,500.
Admiral has accepted that it should have paid its initial settlement to Mr E earlier than it did. 
Its paid interest to make up for that delay (applied from 26 March 2023). And its initial 
settlement should have represented a fair and reasonable value for Mr Es car. Which I have 
found it did not. So Im satisfied that Admiral should apply interest* to the additional payment 
Im now requiring it to make of £2,027, from 26 March 2023 until settlement is made.   
As Ive noted, Admiral has accepted that it caused delays on this claim. That meant Mr E 
had to wait for around two months longer than he reasonably should have done for it to pay him its initial settlement sum. And Ive found that sum wasnt fair and reasonable. Im 
satisfied that total compensation of £200 is fairly and reasonably due to make up for this 
upset. Admiral has paid £100 already so it now only needs to pay the remaining £100. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral to pay Mr E:
£2,027, as an increased total loss settlement, plus interest* applied on that figure from 
26 March 2023, until payment is made.
£100 compensation, where total compensation is £200 and £100 of that sum has already 
been paid. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Admiral to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman