DRN-4244818
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that, despite a 100% pension sharing order (PSO) being
agreed in May 2015, Friends Life (now part of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited) continued 
to make pension payments from her ex-husbands plan  and didnt tell her that it was an 
annuity in payment or chase her for its outstanding requirements. Her understanding was 
that the pension was now in her name and would come into payment when she retired. 
A complaint about subsequent delays from when she resumed querying this matter with 
Aviva in June 2021, and the change in the transfer value when the PSO was subsequently 
settled in August 2022, is being dealt with by this service separately.
What happened
Mrs Ns ex-husband held a deferred annuity with Friends Life which resulted from the wind-
up of his former employers pension scheme. He reached his normal retirement date in 
March 2006 and began drawing the annuity. In the rest of this decision Ill refer to Friends 
Life as Aviva.
In March 2015 the Family Court issued a PSO as part of Mr and Mrs Ns divorce. 100% of 
Mr Ns entitlement in the Aviva pension was to be transferred to Mrs N, with the fees for 
implementing the PSO to be met 50/50 by those parties.
Mrs N was assisted in the divorce proceedings by her local solicitor. They sent a copy of the  
sealed consent order and decree absolute to Aviva on 12 March 2015, and followed this up 
by asking Mrs N to pay half of the fees in late March. It appears there was temporarily an 
issue with Mrs N finding the funds, as her attention was understandably focused on 
supporting her daughter who was due to have major surgery in mid-April. However, the 
solicitor subsequently sent Mrs Ns fee to Aviva on 15 April.
On 20 April, whilst it was waiting for Mr N to pay his half of the fees, Aviva told Mrs Ns 
solicitor that it would need to receive an application from Mrs Ns proposed receiving 
scheme, including its bank details and ASCON number (this is a reference allowing the 
protected rights part of the benefits to be transferred).
Mrs Ns solicitor appears not to have understood that Aviva was referring to the receiving 
schemes own application, rather than a form it provides for implementing PSOs. So, 
although Mr Ns solicitor had sent his part of the fees to Aviva by 21 May, it wasnt until a 
phone call from Mrs Ns solicitor to Aviva again on 11 August that they had the correct 
understanding that Mrs N would need to complete whatever documentation the receiving 
scheme required. It only seems to be at this stage that Mrs Ns solicitor realised that the sale 
of a new pension was required, to accept the funds. That being a regulated financial services 
activity, they werent in a position to arrange it for Mrs N themselves.
On 20 August the solicitor explained to Mrs N, I advise you to seek independent financial 
advice and arrange for the financial advisor to transfer your pension creditlet me know 
when the PSO has been implemented so I can take steps to close your file.
The solicitor did remain in contact with Mrs N to check what progress she was making. They 
established on 28 August that she wasnt able to transfer the pension credit into her local 
government pension  a new personal pension was needed, hence the requirement for 
independent advice to select an appropriate provider. I can see that on 15 September the 
solicitor acknowledged in writing that Mrs N was making her own enquiries, and after being 
unable to make contact with her successfully on 19 October there are no further entries on 
its file.
Mrs Ns daughter sadly died in November 2015 and Mrs N didnt make further contact with 
Aviva until 2021. As Ive noted above, this is the subject of a separate complaint.
In its final response to Mrs N about the failed implementation of the PSO, on 15 August 
2022, Aviva set out that it never received instructions from her as to where the pension credit 
transfer should be sent. So, the transfer was never completed in 2015 and Mr N had 
continued to receive the annuity payments since then. It said Mrs N would need to contact 
Mr N in regard to any money he had received since 2015.
Aviva thought it should have sent reminders for the outstanding information after 2015, 
rather than waiting for her to make contact. So, it paid Mrs N £250 compensation for the 
long delay in complying with the PSO and for the distress this caused. Mrs N wasnt happy 
with this payment and referred the dispute to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our investigators began looking at the complaint. He spoke to Mrs N who told him 
that her ex-husband died in July 2022, but prior to this there had in any event been a 
restraining order  causing a difficulty in doing what Aviva suggested she would have to do 
to recover past payments.
Mrs N also forwarded a new response her financial adviser had received from Aviva on 10 
November 2022 about the fact the transfer value had changed from what it originally quoted. 
It gave separate referral rights to this service on that matter. 
Ive written to both parties recently to explain that the timing of the transfer value (and hence 
the amount) will depend on this services view of the alleged delays occurring between 2021 
and 2022. So, I wont be referring in this decision to the conclusions the investigator reached 
about the delay in processing the PSO during 2021 and 2022, or any further compensation 
he thought was appropriate in respect of that. Further evidence is still being gathered from 
Aviva so that those issues can be comprehensively addressed under a separate complaint. 
In respect of the failure to implement the PSO between 2015 and when Mrs N resumed 
contact in 2021, the investigator concluded that Aviva wasnt in a position to stop payments 
to Mr N. He explained the PSO had no effect under the law until Mrs N (or her 
representative) notified Aviva where the pension credit should be paid to. And he was 
satisfied that, notwithstanding Mrs Ns difficult situation with her daughter during 2015, her 
solicitor had told her that she would need to arrange a new pension to receive the transfer.
Mrs N didnt agree with the investigator. She said that at no time did Aviva or her solicitor 
inform her that the Aviva plan was an annuity and would continue to be paid to Mr N. Neither 
of them followed the matter up after 2015. And Aviva made it impossible for her to act 
without a financial adviser and a solicitor. She was seeking to recover the annuity payments 
that shouldnt have been made to Mr N.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Ive notified both parties that Ill be making a decision on 
this issue.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a PSO is presented to the existing pension provider by the recipient of the pension 
credit, there is a set process for every provider to follow. It has a maximum period of four 
months to implement the PSO from the time it receives all the necessary information. It is 
under no obligation to do anything until it receives that information. Nor does it have to 
disclose any other information to Mrs N about Mr Ns pension. The process for obtaining the 
PSO involved Mr N already giving the necessary prescribed information to the court. She is 
not otherwise entitled to information about someone elses policy.
Further, not all types of pension arrangement will allow the pension credit to sit within the 
same arrangement as the original members. Sometimes an occupational pension scheme 
can do this  by admitting the spouse as a new member. Mr Ns pension was originally an 
occupational pension scheme. But that scheme had been bought out as deferred annuities 
and then closed down. Aviva has no ability to vary the terms of this deferred annuity, from 
which Mr N had since started taking benefits.
So, in common with most types of personal pension, Mrs N would need to arrange her own 
pension plan to receive the pension credit. So Aviva was entitled to respond to Mrs Ns 
solicitor in 2015 that it would require an application from the proposed new scheme  
including bank details and a necessary reference number to transfer protected rights  in 
order to pay the CETV across. And that explains why it didnt act further in 2015, because it 
didnt receive this. 
The requirements are set out at reg. 5 of the Pensions on Divorce etc. (Provision of 
Information) Regulations 2000, known as Information required by the person responsible for 
the pension arrangement before the implementation period may begin. The information 
required for payment to a qualifying arrangement is:
(i)  the full name of that qualifying arrangement;
(ii)  its address;
(iii)  if known, the transferee's membership number or policy number in that arrangement; 
and
(iv)  the name or title, business address, business telephone number, and, where 
available, the business facsimile number and electronic mail address of a person who 
may be contacted in respect of the discharge of liability for the pension credit;
And any information requested by the person responsible for the pension arrangement in 
accordance with regulation 4(2)(i) or (k). The latter regulation allows the transferring 
scheme to request information additional to that specified in regulation 5 in order to 
implement the pension sharing order or provision. So, further information such as bank 
details and the ASCON number would reasonably fall under that latter regulation. 
Im satisfied that what Aviva referred to as an application wasnt a reference to an Aviva 
application form, even though Im not sure Mrs Ns solicitor initially understood this. From 
some of the comments the solicitor made at the time, they (or their practice) seem to have 
been familiar with implementing PSOs. So I think they would reasonably have known that 
the issuance of the PSO by the Family Court was enough to mean Mrs N was entitled to the 
pension credit, without other Aviva forms necessarily needing to be completed. But also, that 
Aviva was likely to require information governed by the Pensions on Divorce etc. (Provision 
of Information) Regulations 2000. Ive taken into account that Aviva initially re-stated its requirements to Mrs Ns solicitor, and 
didnt expand on its explanation until a subsequent enquiry. But it knew that it was dealing 
with a solicitor and would in my view expect that solicitor to be more familiar with the process 
than, say, if it were dealing with Mrs N directly. I would also expect Mrs Ns solicitor to have 
been aware that not all PSOs could be satisfied within the existing scheme, and that this 
case was one where an external transfer would have to be made. To the extent that this may 
not have been clear initially from the PSO document (and whilst I dont know what was 
discussed more widely with the Court), it would have been reasonable to make further 
enquiries when the PSO was first issued. So on balance, Im not persuaded that Aviva 
treated Mrs N unfairly at this time.
Im also mindful that the PSO itself doesnt refer to the fact that Mr Ns pension was in 
payment: it only refers to Mr Ns rights under his pension arrangement. Due to the 
standardised information that is sought by the Court, this may not necessarily have come out 
during the court proceedings either. Mr N had started drawing his pension nine years before 
their divorce, but I appreciate that even if Mrs N was aware of this she may not have known 
that it was a fixed annuity (as opposed to some sort of ad-hoc drawdown income that he 
might have stopped).
So, I can readily understand how unfortunate it is that this information didnt come to light. 
However I have to take into account that Mrs Ns entitlement to information about Mr Ns 
policy was limited. All the information sought had to be obtained and provided to the Court 
by Mr N. The process by which the PSO was negotiated was a matter for the Court, and Mr 
and Mrs N. Aviva was not a party to that. And in my experience, the divorced parties usually 
act very promptly to do what is required to effect the PSO and bring matters to a close. 
In Mrs Ns case, whether or not she knew that Mr N was receiving an annuity, Im satisfied 
her solicitor did pass on the key information to her that she would have to transfer to an 
external arrangement. I appreciate that addressing this was obviously not her priority with 
her family situation at the time. This might not have been helped by the lack of 
understanding that Mr N was still receiving payments. But that doesnt unfortunately change 
that both Aviva and then her solicitor had told her what was required, and Aviva wasnt 
responsible for giving her any more information about the nature of her husbands pension.
Some solicitors were permitted by the financial and legal regulators to advise on or arrange 
financial products as an ancillary activity to legal work  as long as those activities remained 
a minor part of their turnover. However that doesnt mean all solicitors offered this service, 
and I dont know what the terms of business of Mrs Ns solicitor were. From what they said at 
the time, they didnt offer this service, and thats why they recommended Mrs N sought 
advice from a regulated financial adviser who could. Thats a matter between Mrs N and her 
solicitor.
Mrs N suggests that Aviva forced her to use both the solicitor and financial adviser. I dont 
think thats correct. She was already using the solicitor as this is common practice when 
seeking a divorce. And it looks to me that for the same reason, her solicitor thought that 
Mrs N would benefit from a financial advisers guidance. Aviva didnt tell Mrs N in 2015 that 
she had to use a financial adviser, and indeed it wouldnt have been able to deny payment of 
her CETV if Mrs N located a new pension provider herself  as long as that provider supplied 
Aviva with the necessary information to implement the PSO.
Mrs N initially tried to do this herself, but found her local government pension was unable to 
receive a pension credit. I think this shows why her solicitor felt a financial adviser was 
needed. I appreciate that losing her daughter in November 2015 meant this was something 
Mrs N then didnt pursue. However, I think it would have been reasonable for her to address 
the problem when she was next able to, rather than (as it seems) come to the conclusion that no further action was required. I think the response she had from the solicitor had been 
clear.
Aviva has paid Mrs N £250 because it feels it could have followed up the lack of contact from 
her, or her solicitor, later in 2015. And also it seems because of how doubly upsetting it was 
for Mrs N to then find out that Aviva was still making payments to Mr N. In some respects 
Avivas payment to Mrs N looks very fair to me, because until it had the necessary 
information to start implementing the PSO  which it had set out  Mr N continued to be its 
customer. So it wasnt in a position to take sides in the divorce settlement.
The fact that the PSO had been ordered by a Court had no impact on Aviva, until Mrs N 
carried out the necessary steps to implement it. That is what the law required. Aviva had no 
ability to stop Mr Ns annuity payments until then  in fact it is a breach of the tax legislation 
to stop an annuity in payment for reasons other than death or the valid implementation of a 
PSO. That would otherwise be treated as an unauthorised payment of the pension and 
attracted a penal tax charge.
The remedy for Mrs N once she realised that Mr N had continued to receive payments she 
hadnt anticipated, would most likely have been to go back to the Family Court. I dont know 
if she would have been successful, given there was a process to implement the PSO which 
she hadnt completed. And given that Mr N has now died I also dont know if this is a matter 
she can involve his estate in. Mrs N may wish to speak to her solicitor about this.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Avivas payment of £250 to Mrs N in respect of the possibility 
that it could have  but was under no obligation to  follow up her lack of response in 2015 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Aviva has already paid Mrs N £250, which I consider is a fair and reasonable settlement for 
failing to follow up her lack of response to implementing the PSO in 2015, and the upset this 
caused in view of the payments to Mr N continuing. Providing that Mrs N has banked this 
payment I do not require Aviva to pay Mrs N anything further in respect of this complaint. 
Her other complaints about events in 2021/22 will be addressed by this service separately.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman