DRN-3957150
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the service provided by AWP P&C SA (AWP) when dealing with a 
claim under his home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T took out a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by AWP. 
The home emergency insurance policy (version dated November 2020) included the 
following definition:
Temporary repair
Repairs and/or work immediately required to stop further damage being caused by 
the emergency. You will need to replace this with a permanent repair at your own 
cost.
The general exclusions explained the following would not be covered by the policy:
Any subsequent claim relating to the same problem where:
-permanent repairs have not been carried out within 30 days of our tradesperson 
attending the initial emergency, to prevent the emergency recurring: or
-further work is needed after our tradesperson resolved the immediate emergency by 
completing a temporary repair
In March 2022 Mr T contacted AWP as hed noticed a constant dripping of water onto [his] 
patio windows and doors and to the patio slabs. Mr T contacted AWP to arrange for a 
tradesperson to come and repair the problem. 
A tradesperson attended to Mr Ts property the next day and completed repairs. Mr T 
thought the problem had been fully resolved, but just over a week later the same problem 
started again. Mr T contacted AWP to arrange another call-out. 
Mr T says he was promised an immediate call out on the Sunday (10 April) evening 9pm 
and so waited and waited. He was then told they wouldnt be sending another tradesperson 
to deal with the same problem. 
Mr T complained to AWP about the way theyd dealt with his claim, specifically in telling him 
that a tradesperson would be able to help, and then telling him that this was incorrect. AWP 
responded to Mr Ts complaint apologising for the poor level of service provided and offered 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with AWPs response, Mr T referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
service for investigation. 
The investigator found that the service provided by AWP had been poor but thought the 
£100 offered was reasonable. This was because the terms and conditions of the policy 
wouldnt have allowed for a tradesperson to help Mr T as the second claim was about the 
same issue that hed previously had repaired.   
Mr T didnt accept the investigators findings. Mr T said What was not taken into 
consideration was the hours of phone calls and being shunted from customer service 
assistant to customer service assistant then onto an alleged senior manager to be told 
empathetically I had no entitlements, this after the initial promise of a call out followed by 
waiting in for an engineer
AWP didnt respond to the investigators findings. As the complaint couldnt be resolved it 
has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
similar reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is 
the right outcome.
Mr Ts policy was intended to provide emergency cover. So a claim under this policy would 
result in temporary repairs to prevent an emergency situation from escalating. Mr T was able 
to benefit from this cover when he first contacted AWP about a constant dripping of water 
issue. But things didnt resolve for him and a few days later he found himself in the same 
situation with the dripping of water issue. 
Mr T was told that a tradesperson would be sent out to repair the dripping of water issue. Its 
not disputed that this information was incorrect. So Ive considered what shouldve happened 
if AWP had handled the claim properly. 
Mr T shouldve been informed that the second claim for the same problem wont be covered 
by his policy. This is in line with the policy terms and conditions which says a subsequent 
claim for the same problem will not be covered where further work is needed after our 
tradesperson resolved the immediate emergency by completing a temporary repair. 
The first tradesperson only completed a temporary repair-  as thats what the policy was 
intended to provide. So it was always going to be for Mr T to instruct another tradesperson to 
deal with any subsequent problems relating to the dripping of water issue. 
I can appreciate what Mr T has explained about the inconvenience caused to him because 
when he called AWP to discuss the issue of the dripping water for the second time he was 
told they could help. AWP also didnt let Mr T know that a tradesperson wouldnt be coming 
until he chased them many times for a response. I am persuaded by what Mr T has 
explained about this leaving him feeling frustrated and upset. 
I think its fair that AWP pay Mr T compensation in recognition of the upset and 
inconvenience caused to him by their poor handling of his claim. 
Given the time spent by Mr T chasing his claim with AWP, and waiting for a response, I think 
£100 is in line with what this service would direct given the circumstances. This amount 
recognises the impact on Mr T because of the incorrect information given to him, but also 
that the terms of the policy wouldnt have reasonably allowed for a second claim for the 
same problem. So AWP wouldnt have provided cover for this second claim in any event. Putting things right
AWP is directed to pay Mr T £100 in recognition of the inconvenience and upset caused to 
Mr T by their poor handling of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ts complaint. AWP P&C SA must follow my 
directions above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman