DRN-3258675
The complaint
Mr F, in summary, has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to 
collect a direct debit for a loan that he held with it. He says this led to his credit file being 
affected and him having to spend a considerable time rectifying this matter.
What happened
In July 2020 a payment holiday was agreed on a personal loan that Mr F held with NatWest. 
Initially this was agreed to be for three months. A further extension was agreed, but NatWest 
took a loan payment in February 2021 whilst Mr F was still on a payment holiday. 
During the attempts to rectify this matter, NatWest has explained to us that its agent 
cancelled Mr Fs direct debit. This in turn led to no loan payments being made for several 
months resulting in this being recorded on Mr Fs credit file. 
Mr F complained about this and has explained it took him a considerable effort to try and fix 
this issue and caused him considerable distress. In response NatWest agreed to set up a 
new loan, refund the additional interest accrued on the loan, amend Mr Fs credit file and pay 
£300 for the distress caused by this matter. Mr F referred his complaint to this service and it 
was assessed by an adjudicator who thought what NatWest had agreed to do was sufficient 
to put matters right.
Mr F did not agree with this and therefore his complaint was passed to me to issue a 
decision.
I can see that Mr F has contacted us recently about further issues that he has had with his 
direct debit and his loan repayments. For the sake of clarity, this decision will only be 
considering the issues that occurred prior to NatWests final response of July 2021. Any 
other issues that have occurred since then would need to be considered separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that in general, where something has gone wrong and the error is 
down to a financial business, we aim to put the consumer back into the position that they 
wouldve been in, had the error not occurred. I should also add that it is not within my remit 
to punish or fine a business for an error that has occurred.
In this instance, I am satisfied that NatWest made an error in cancelling Mr Fs loan direct 
debit and in not contacting Mr F to set up a new one, once the payment holiday had ended. I 
can also see that it should not have taken a payment in February 2021. Further to this I can 
see that it took Mr F a considerable amount of time and effort to rectify this matter, as he had 
to contact various departments in NatWest.
Given this, it falls to me to decide whether what NatWest has already done is reasonable 
given the overall circumstances of this complaint. I can see that NatWest has set up a new 
loan, and amended Mr Fs credit file. I am satisfied that this puts Mr F broadly back to the 
position he wouldve been in had the error not occurred.
In relation to the £300 that NatWest has paid Mr F, I think that this is broadly in line with the 
amount that I wouldve asked NatWest to pay Mr F had it not already done so. So I think this 
amount reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience that Mr F experienced in trying to 
get NatWests error rectified.
I note Mr Fs comments that he would like an explanation as to why the errors occurred, but I 
am satisfied that NatWest caused the issues and has paid adequate compensation for these 
errors. So I dont think finding out the exact reasons as to why they occurred will add 
anything in terms of me deciding whether NatWest has taken reasonable steps to put 
matters right. That said, if anything goes wrong in the future, he would be able to complain 
about these issues as and when they occur.
Finally I should highlight that this decision represents the last stage in our process and there 
is no further recourse to appeal so we are unable to further discuss the merits of Mr Fs 
complaint after this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I think that what NatWest has already done is sufficient and it does 
not need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman