DRN-3472294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about how DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited dealt 
with a claim against their legal expenses insurance. Reference to  DAS includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs L have legal expenses insurance as part of their 
home insurance policy. Mr L has pursued the claim against the policy and the complaint, 
so Ill refer to him alone below. 
Mr L had a dispute with a builder he engaged to do work on his home. In June 2021,    
he contacted DAS in order to make a claim against his policy. DAS instructed one of its 
panel solicitors to assist Mr L, but it didnt have capacity to take on Mr Ls case. DAS 
instructed another one of its panel solicitors, but it didnt contact Mr L within a reasonable 
time or at all. 
In July 2021, DAS invited Mr L to contact it about instructing his own solicitor, which he 
did. DAS authorised Mr Ls own solicitor and said that the hourly rate of £100 applies 
and that it wouldnt consider an increase. Mr L said that his solicitor required £185 plus 
VAT to complete the initial forms required by DAS and then an hourly rate of £175 plus 
VAT. DAS agreed to pay Mr Ls solicitor £185 plus VAT to complete its forms but didnt 
agree to pay more than £100 per hour after that. It said that Mr L could use one of its 
panel solicitors or pay his solicitor the balance of the hourly rate. 
Mr L complained about DAS delay in dealing with the matter. He also complained that 
his policy says that the rate paid to solicitors may vary from time to time. He wants DAS 
to honour that and pay his own solicitor £175 per hour. 
In August 2021, DAS responded to Mr Ls complaint and maintained its position about 
the hourly rate but agreed that it had provided poor service. It paid Mr L compensation of 
£200 in relation to his inconvenience. DAS instructed another of its panel solicitors. 
In October 2021, the panel solicitor told Mr L that she couldnt confirm that his case has 
reasonable prospects of success. She asked Mr L to provide an experts report about the 
work and three independent quotations in relation to the remedial work. Mr L complained 
to DAS about the progress of his case and asked that DAS agree to pay for a surveyors 
report. Theres a dispute about what DAS said in a phone call on 8 October 2021 in 
response to that request. Ill refer to that in more detail below. 
DAS said that if the panel solicitor says that Mr Ls claim has reasonable prospects of 
success, it would refund the cost of the surveyors report. Mr L wasnt happy about that 
and pursued his complaint.
Mr L obtained a surveyors report and provided it to the panel solicitor. The panel 
solicitor confirmed that Mr Ls case has reasonable prospects of success. The panel 
solicitor reminded Mr L about its requirement in relation to quotations for the remedial 
work. DAS paid the surveyors fee. I understand that events have moved on and that   
Mr L has provided the panel solicitor with the quotations requested.
Mr L says that he thought that the reference in the policy to the fact that the hourly rate 
of £100 may vary from time to time meant that DAS would pay his own solicitors 
hourly rate. He says that the policy doesnt say when and how the amount may be 
varied, so the hourly rate should be varied in all and any circumstances from time to 
time. Mr L says that if hed known that wasnt the case, he would have taken out 
another policy. He wants DAS to pay his own solicitors hourly rate.
Mr L complains that DAS authorised the surveyors fee during a phone call on                 
8 October 2021 but later denied doing so. Whilst DAS has now paid the surveyors fee, 
Mr L says that that DAS actions caused him distress. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that DAS needed 
to take any further action in response to Mr Ls complaint. The investigator said that the 
compensation of £200 DAS had already paid in relation to delay at the start of the claim 
was fair. She thought that the term of the policy setting out the hourly rate was clear. 
The investigator said that DAS was entitled to rely on the panel solicitors initial view 
about the prospects of success. She said that DAS accepted that it could have been 
clearer about the surveyors report in the phone call it had with Mr L but that Mr L would 
have obtained the surveyors report in any event and DAS had now paid for the 
surveyors report. She didnt think that DAS needed to do anything further. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
The delay is ongoing. The panel solicitor now has the surveyors report and three 
quotations, but matters are progressing slowly.
He agrees that the policy term about the hourly rate is clear but the part of the 
term which says the rate may vary from time to time isnt clear. Policy 
documentation refers to rates of £100-£200 and DAS is acting unfairly and 
unreasonably in not agreeing to pay his own solicitors rate. 
If DAS had told him that it wouldnt pay for the surveyors report he may have 
sought another legal opinion to show that he had more than 51% prospects of 
success. He believes that he as 99.99% chance of success, as the contractor 
has admitted part of his claim. An apology in relation to DAS errors about the 
surveyors report isnt sufficient. 
Mr L asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. One of the insured incidents in 
the policy is a contractual dispute arising from an agreement for goods or services. The 
policy also says:  
What we cover
We will pay an appointed representative, on your behalf, costs and expenses for the 
insured incidents in this section as long as:
[]
-Reasonable prospects exist for the duration of the claim
The most we will pay in costs and expenses is not more than the amount we would 
have paid to a preferred law firm. The amount we will pay a law firm (where acting 
as an appointed representative) is currently £100 per hour. This amount may vary 
from time to time.
[]
 
Reasonable prospects are defined as:
For civil cases, the prospects that you will recover losses or damages (or obtain any other 
legal remedy that we have agreed to, including an enforcement of judgement), make a 
successful defence or make a successful appeal or defence of an appeal, must be at least 
51%. We or a preferred law firm on our behalf, will assess whether there are reasonable 
prospects.
Expert opinion
We may require you to get, at your own expense, an opinion from an expert that we 
consider appropriate, on the merits of the claim or proceedings, or on a legal principle. The 
expert must be approved in advance by us and the cost agreed in writing between you and 
us. Subject to this, we will pay the cost of getting the opinion if the experts opinion indicates 
that it is more likely than not that you will recover damages (or obtain any other legal remedy 
that we have agreed to) or make a successful defence.
has DAS treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that DAS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr Ls 
complaint. I say that because:
Delay
Ive looked at the chronology of events when Mr L first made the claim to DAS. Its 
common ground that there were delays. The first panel solicitors instructed by DAS 
didnt have capacity to take on Mr Ls case. The second panel solicitors didnt contact 
Mr L in a reasonable time or at all. I appreciate that was frustrating for Mr L. But 
when it became clear that matters were not progressing, DAS invited Mr L to contact 
it about instructing his own solicitor. I think that was the right thing to do.
I think that the compensation of £200 DAS has already paid in relation to the initial 
delay is fair and reasonable. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, 
extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr L by the initial 
delays in instructing a solicitor. Mr L says that the delay is ongoing. Now that the panel solicitors are instructed, DAS 
isnt responsible for any delay on their part. I cant deal with any criticism Mr L may 
have  of the panel solicitors. Thats because this service has no jurisdiction over 
solicitors, and we dont generally hold insurers responsible for the actions of panel 
solicitors. DAS appoints panel solicitors as independent legal experts with their own 
regulator and complaints body. Any concerns Mr L has about the panel solicitors 
should be directed to them directly in the first instance. 
the hourly rate
Mr L agrees that the reference in the policy to the hourly rate of £100 is clear. His 
contention is that the reference in the policy to the fact that the hourly rate of £100 
may vary from time to time meant that DAS would pay his own solicitors hourly 
rate. He says that the policy doesnt say when and how the amount may be varied, 
so the hourly rate should be varied in all and any circumstances from time to 
time. Im afraid I dont agree, and Ill explain why.
In the circumstances that arise here, DAS is entitled to limit the amount it pays to 
non-panel solicitors in the way that it has. Ive seen nothing to indicate that either the 
factual background or legal principles involved in Mr Ls claim are so complex that 
only a specialist would be able to deal with the case. 
The fact that DAS reserves the right to vary the hourly rate doesnt mean that its 
obliged to do so in Mr Ls case. DAS may have agreed in other cases to pay more 
than the hourly rate set out in the policy terms but that doesnt mean that it treated  
Mr L unfairly or unreasonably in declining to do so here. 
The marketing material Mr L has provided and referred to is from another business, 
not DAS. But in any event, it doesnt say that DAS will pay solicitors rates between 
£100 and £200  it says those are the rates an individual may have to pay without 
legal expenses cover. 
Mr L says that if hed known that DAS wouldnt pay his own solicitors hourly rate he 
would have taken out another policy. But as the legal expenses cover was part of   
Mr and Mrs Ls home insurance policy, I doubt that this matter would have caused 
them to choose a different policy at the outset.  
I think that the restriction on the hourly rate is reasonable and is sufficiently clear 
such that DAS is entitled to rely on it. I dont think that DAS treated Mr L unfairly or 
unreasonably in doing so.  prospects of success
Insurers are able to rely on the legal advice and opinions provided by a suitably 
qualified lawyer, provided that the advice or opinion are not obviously wholly incorrect 
when viewed from the perspective of a lay person. 
I think that DAS was entitled to rely on the panel solicitors initial view about the 
prospects of success of Mr Ls claim. The panel solicitor explained that, based on the 
information available at that stage, she was unable to confirm that Mr Ls claim had 
reasonable prospects of success. She said that she required expert evidence and 
quotations in relation to the remedial work to consider the matter further. 
I see that events have move on and, now that Mr L has provided expert evidence 
from a surveyor and quotations for remedial work, the panel solicitor has confirmed 
that Mr Ls case does have reasonable prospects of success. 
the phone call of 8 October 2021 in relation to the surveyors report
Mr L says that in a phone call with DAS on 8 October 2021, it said that it would pay 
for the surveyors report then reneged on that. Unfortunately, the recording of the 
phone call is incomplete, so I cant know with any certainty what DAS said at that 
stage about paying for the surveyors report. Where things are not clear, and 
evidence is incomplete or contradictory - as some of it is here - I make my findings on 
what I think is most likely to be the case. I take into account the evidence available to 
me and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
It would be unusual for DAS to agree to pay for a surveyors report at that stage, as 
the policy provides that where DAS requires expert evidence it will only pay for the 
report if theres reasonable prospects of success. I appreciate that in this case it was 
the panel solicitor, not DAS, who asked Mr L for the expert evidence, but I think the 
same principle applies. And DAS notes of the phone call which were made at the 
time record that it wasnt for it to agree to a surveyors report as it was commissioned 
under the instruction of the panel solicitor. 
Mr L says that if DAS had told him that it wouldnt pay for the surveyors report he 
may have sought another legal opinion to show that he had more than 51% 
prospects of success. I dont think that would have progressed matters any quicker 
for Mr L, as its more likely than not that any other solicitor would also ask for an 
experts report. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that I can fairly conclude that DAS agreed to 
pay for the surveyors report during the phone call on 8 October 2021. But in any 
event, DAS has agreed that the information could have been clearer. And events 
have moved on in that DAS has now paid for the surveyors report. I dont think that 
DAS needs to do anything further in relation to this part of Mr Ls complaint.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman