DRN-3051592
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited increased the credit limit on his account, which 
he feels was unaffordable for him at that time.
What happened
Mr J raised a complaint with Vanquis because he felt that Vanquis had provided credit to him 
irresponsibly. Mr J felt that Vanquis should never have accepted his application for credit in 
the first instance or increased the credit limit on his account at the times that they did 
because in all instances the credit that Vanquis provided him with was unaffordable for him 
at those times. 
Vanquis noted that the initial application for credit and some credit limit increases had taken 
place more than six years prior to Mr J making his complaint, and because of this Vanquis 
didnt feel that those events were eligible for review. However, Vanquis did look at the most 
recent credit limit that took place on the account  from £1,500 to £2,250 in August 2015  
but felt that there had been nothing resulting from the checks that theyd undertaken into Mr 
Js financial position at that time that reasonably suggested to them that Mr J might not be 
able to afford the higher credit amount being offered. So, they didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the information that Vanquis 
should have reviewed before increasing the credit limit on Mr Js account should have given 
Vanquis cause to consider that the credit increase wasnt affordable or Mr J at that time. 
Because of this, they recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Js favour and that 
Vanquis should reimburse to Mr J all interest and charges incurred on the account relating to 
any balance above £1,500 from the point of the credit limit increase in August 2015 onwards. 
Our investigator also recommended that Vanquis should remove all adverse reporting 
relating to this account from the point of the credit limit increase.
Vanquis accepted the recommendations put forwards by our investigator and made a 
payment of reimbursement to Mr J. However, Mr J felt that he should receive a 
reimbursement of all interest and charges incurred on the account from August 2015 
onwards on the full balance of the account, and not just a reimbursement on the interest and 
charges incurred on the balance above £1,500. Because of this, the matter was escalated to 
an ombudsman for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr J might feel that Vanquis, having accepted that the credit limit 
increase that took place in August 2015 shouldnt have been provided to him, should 
reimburse to his account all interest and charges incurred on the account beyond that date, 
and not just interest and charges accrued on the balance of the account above £1,500.
However, having reviewed whats happened here, Im satisfied that the recommendation put 
forward by our investigator  that Vanquis should reimburse all interest and charges from the 
point of the credit limit increase in August 2015 on the balance of the account above £1,500 
only  is fair, and I can confirm that its in line with what this service would expect here.
The reason for this is because the provision of credit by Vanquis up until the credit limit 
increase in August 2015 is outside the remit of this service to consider for the reasons 
already explained by our investigator and accepted by Mr J. Specifically, because the events 
in question  the initial provision of credit and the earlier credit limit increases  took place 
more than six years before Mr J raised his complaint with Vanquis and as such werent 
events that Vanquis were obliged to review.
This means that the position of this service is that the provision of credit up until the credit 
limit increase in August 2015 isnt under consideration. This effectively means that its 
accepted that the credit limit before the August 2015 increase  which was £1,500  isnt 
considered as having been provided by Vanquis irresponsibly.
Because this service cant say that the credit limit of £1,500 was provided irresponsibly, it 
follows that this service cant instruct Vanquis to reimburse interest and charges on the 
balance of the account below £1,500, even after the credit limit increase. 
One reason for this is because this service aims to restore a customer to the position that 
they would be in had the event in question never taken place. And in this instance, the event 
in question was an increase in the credit limit from £1,500 to £2,250. Had this event not 
taken place in August 2015, Mr Js credit account would still have had a credit limit of £1,500 
and would still have legitimately incurred interest and charges on the account past that date 
up to that balance.
Its for this reason that our investigator recommended that Vanquis reimburse to Mr Js 
account all interest and charges incurred on the account after the credit limit increase on any 
account balance over £1,500 only. And Im satisfied that it was fair, reasonable, and correct 
of our investigator to have made this recommendation, given the circumstances.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the actions to which Vanquis have already agreed 
here - including the reimbursement to Mr Js account of all interest, fees, and charges 
relating to the balance of the account above £1,500 incurred after the credit limit increase in 
August 2015, as well as the removal of all adverse credit reporting regarding this account 
following that date  does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr J wants here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Vanquis to take any further action, beyond that to 
which theyve already agreed. I trust that Mr J will understand, given all that Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman