DRN-2532301
The complaint
Mr J complains that a finance agreement he has with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) was misrepresented to him as the mileage allowance was not what he 
agreed. He also disputes and end of term charge for repairs to a windscreen. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I know it will disappoint MBFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant legislation explains that MBFS, as the provider of credit, is responsible for what 
the dealership, as the credit broker, say before the consumer takes out the credit agreement.
I understand that the finance agreement lists the mileage allowance as 12,000 but, on 
balance, I am persuaded that Mr J was likely to have told the dealership he wanted an 
agreement with a mileage allowance of 20,000 miles. I say that because:
I can see that Mr Js insurance was set for 20,000 miles and I dont think he would 
have been likely to do that if hed only expected to complete 12,000 a year;
Mr J has explained that his job requires extensive travel and it would not seem 
sensible for him to establish car finance with a lower mileage allowance;
If hed done so on the basis that he would benefit from lower monthly instalments that 
would not seem a sensible approach. Hed always be liable for excess mileage 
charges that would, I think its fair to say, outweigh the benefit of the reduced 
instalments;
the service plan shows annual mileage of 15,000 per year. MBFS have not explained 
why that would be the case if the annual mileage on the finance agreement was only 
12,000. I think this demonstrates its likely there was some miscommunication from 
the business about the mileage that would be covered. That supports Mr Js 
argument that hed asked for a higher mileage limit.
Im persuaded that Mr J wouldnt have proceeded with the deal if he had known the mileage 
limit he was being offered was only 12,000. So, I think there was a misrepresentation here.
Mr J appears now to accept that MBFS were within their rights to charge him for 
refurbishment to a chip in the cars windscreen when it was returned to them. The British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association provide the industry guidelines for assessing any 
damage when a vehicle is returned at the end of a lease. That guidance says that damage in 
excess of 10mm in line of the drivers vision is not acceptable. I think the chip is in excess of 
10mm and is in the drivers line of vision, so I think MBFS have been fair when making a 
charge to have it repaired and I dont think they need to waive this.
Putting things right
Ive thought about how best to put Mr J back in the position he would have been in had the 
misrepresentation not happened.
The car has now been returned and the contract has been terminated. I dont think any of 
the finance instalments Mr J has paid should be returned to him as hes clearly had fair use 
of the car.
But I dont think it would be fair for MBFS to charge him for any mileage below 20,000.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited not to charge Mr J for any excess mileage unless the annual 
mileage exceeds 20,000 per year.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman