DRN-2478310
The complaint
Mr A complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim relating 
to a damaged television and their decision to decline a claim relating to a damaged mobile 
phone.
What happened
Mr A has a home insurance policy with Lloyds which covers his buildings and contents, 
amongst other things.
He made two claims. One relating to his TV, which had been accidentally damaged. And one 
relating to his mobile phone, which he accidentally dropped on to a hard surface just outside 
his back door.
Lloyds agreed to replace the TV, but the model Mr A had was no longer produced. So, they 
offered a like-for-like replacement. Mr A wasnt happy with this, so Lloyds offered a cash 
settlement. Again, Mr A wasnt happy with what had been offered.
Lloyds declined the claim for the mobile phone. Mr A said hed had a quote for repairs 
amounting to around £1,000. Lloyds said Mr A wasnt covered for items damaged in his 
garden. Mr A wasnt happy with this either.
He made a complaint to Lloyds about both claims. And when Lloyds confirmed their stance, 
he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Lloyds had 
done anything wrong.
Mr A disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with the way the claim relating to the TV was handled first. 
Lloyds accepted the claim. According to the terms of the policy Mr A bought, they were 
therefore obliged to:
 either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
The policy goes on to say that if the item isnt directly replaceable with a new item of the 
same model, Lloyds will provide the nearest equivalent.
Mr As TV was no longer manufactured. In line with the policy terms, they offered him a 
different model with the same specifications. And when he objected, they offered a cash 
settlement.
I cant see that Lloyds have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably in the way they 
handled this claim. Theyve done what the policy requires them to do. And theres nothing 
unusual or unfair about the policy terms themselves  which are very clearly set out in the 
policy booklet. I understand Mr A has now decided to accept Lloyds offer. 
Turning to the mobile phone claim, theres no dispute here about the facts. According to 
Mr A he was standing at his back door and dropped the phone outside onto the hard surface 
just outside.
The policy Mr A bought automatically covers contents inside his private residence. The 
policyholder can then choose to add optional cover for contents in outbuildings and in the 
open. And they can also choose to add optional cover for personal belongings away from 
the home.
The policy booklet has a helpful pictorial diagram at the start which shows what areas count 
as inside a private residence and which count as outbuildings and in the open.
Its clear from that and the accompanying definitions that contents are automatically covered 
if theyre in the private residence (the house) itself - and this includes contents in integral or 
attached garages and attached conservatories.
This is by contrast to contents in the outbuildings and in the open which arent covered 
unless the policyholder takes out the optional cover. If they do take that option, the booklet 
makes it clear theyre covered for contents in the open within the boundary of the home 
(e.g. gardens, paths, driveways, patios).
Mr As policy schedule  provided to him at inception and renewal  shows very clearly that 
hes opted for cover for personal belongings away from the home, but hes not taken the 
option of cover for contents in outbuildings or in the open within the boundary of the home  
for example, in his garden or patio.
Mr A thinks its odd  and unfair - that the damage to his phone would be covered inside his 
house and outside the boundaries of his garden, but not in the garden itself.
I can see Mr As point. If hes on his way out of the house, or out of his garden, much will 
depend on the split second that he drops the phone or the exact place it lands.
However, it seems to me thats a consequence of the decisions Mr A made when he took out 
the policy  and whether he took or didnt take the various options for additional cover. In 
short, he decided to pay to cover his possessions away from the home (outside his 
propertys boundaries) but not to pay for cover for the outside parts of his property  the 
gardens and patios etc.
Im satisfied the policy documents are clear enough that Mr A would  or should  have 
known what cover he was buying when he made those choices. As I say, the first section of 
the policy booklet contains a very clear diagram showing the areas in which contents are 
covered automatically and the areas which require the purchase of additional cover.
Theres nothing inherently unfair about offering policies which are structured in this way. As 
long as its absolutely clear to the potential customer what cover theyre buying. It does allow 
policyholders to get different types of cover at different prices.
So, I cant conclude that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr As claim after 
his mobile phone was damaged. The accident happened in the garden. Mr As policy doesnt provide cover for that because he chose not to purchase the specific additional option on his 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman