DRN-3261579
The complaint
Mrs K complains Match the Cash Limited trading as Guarantormyloan.tv irresponsibly lent to 
her. 
Mrs K is represented by a claims management company. For ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by her. 
What happened
Match the Cash approved Mrs K for the following loans:
Loan Date Capital amount Term Monthly 
repayments 
(approx.)
One September 2015 £1,000 12 months £110
Two December 2015 £1,500 36 months £85
Three October 2017 £5,000 48 months £255
Four June 2018 £7,750 60 months £375
Mrs K says these loans were all lent irresponsibly. She says Match the Cash did not 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks; and had it done so it wouldve seen the 
loans were unaffordable to her.;
I wrote to both parties with my provisional decision. I set my provisional findings out as 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this 
complaint.   
Mrs K and Match the Cash are aware of our services approach to irresponsible and 
unaffordable lending complaints; so for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the 
detail here. 
Ive reviewed all of the information that was gathered by Match the Cash during each 
loan application; and Im satisfied in regard to each loan it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks. I can see that in each instance it completed a search of Mrs 
Ks credit history; completed an affordability assessment and verified this information 
via bank statements and screenshots.
As Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks were completed on each 
loan; Ive limited my decision here to whether Match the Cash made a fair decision to 
lend, whether it ought to have realised if it was increasing Mrs Ks overall 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or harmful; and if it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mrs K in any other way. Ill deal with each loan in turn.
Loan one
Loan one was for a capital amount of £1,000 to be repaid over 12 months with 
repayments of £110 (approx.). The purpose of the loan was listed as home 
improvements. Having considered the information that Match the Cash gathered Im 
currently minded to say it made a fair decision to lend.
Our investigator recommended this aspect of Mrs Ks complaint be upheld as there 
was evidence of Mrs K using her money to gamble. Whilst that is true, Im satisfied 
that Match the Cash had sight of these transactions; and had factored them into the 
affordability assessment it had completed. I note that the amount of gambling 
transactions was relatively low (albeit high in frequency). However; Im minded to say 
that this spending did not clearly demonstrate that the any lending would be used for 
unsustainable purposes. 
Looking through the assessment that Match the Cash completed; it had taken into 
account all of Mrs Ks known credit commitments (verified via the credit report and 
statements); and added in the repayments for this loan. Looking at these calculations 
the loan appeared to be affordable to Mrs K. And considering this was a first loan for 
a relatively small amount to be repaid over a short period, Im satisfied it was not 
increasing her overall level of indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. As such Im currently minded to say it lent loan one reasonably. 
Loan two
Loan two was three months after loan one. The capital amount was £1,500 to be 
taken over 36 months with repayments of £85 (approx.). The loan purpose was listed 
as for Christmas. This loan went in part to settle loan one.
Again, having reviewed this information Im currently minded to say that Match the 
Cash lent this loan responsibly.
The affordability assessment again noted Mrs Ks known outgoings and credit 
commitments. The statements showed that she was still gambling, but this was a 
similar pattern and level as loan one. So again, Im not persuaded it clearly 
demonstrated that any funds provided would clearly be used for demonstrably 
unsustainable purposes. The rest of the information that Match the Cash gathered 
demonstrated that Mrs K could afford the loan. Considering this loan also reduced 
Mrs Ks monthly repayments Im satisfied this loan was likely affordable to Mrs K; and 
as such Match the Cash made a reasonable decision to lend.
Im also currently minded saying that Match the Cash did not increase Mrs Ks 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. This loan whilst 
increasing her overall level of indebtedness actually reduced her monthly repayments 
and attracted a lower interest rate than loan one; so, Im persuaded it wasnt 
unsustainable or harmful to Mrs K.Loan three
Loan three was taken in October 2017 and was for a capital amount of £5,000. This 
amount went in part to settle loan two. The monthly repayments increased to around 
£255. The purpose of the loan was listed as home improvements.
Having considered all of the information that Match the Cash had available to it, Im 
not currently satisfied that it made a fair decision to lend this loan. 
Match the Cash say that the checks it completed demonstrated that the loan was 
affordable to Mrs K. Im not satisfied this was necessarily the case here; and 
considering the wider information it had Im not satisfied it made a fair decision to 
lend. The overall spending analysis that Match the Cash completed on Mrs Ks 
application demonstrated that she was at best breaking even when it came to debit v 
credit. 
The information which Match the Cash gathered also shows that Mrs Ks spending 
on gambling transactions had continued; and seemed to have increased in the period 
leading up to this loan being approved. The statements showed that Miss K was 
entering into her overdraft; and this was in part due to the gambling transactions she 
was completing. 
She had also continued to rely on other forms of credit to help supplement her 
income. This loan was not going to help consolidate any of these debts (outside of 
the existing Match the Cash loan); and her repayments were increasing significantly 
from around £85 to £255. So Im not satisfied this loan was sustainably affordable to 
Mrs K.
The credit file also suggested that Mrs K had received a default marker on her 
account between loan two and loan three being taken out. Again, suggesting that she 
was now struggling to meet her existing commitments. Equally, Match the Cash 
would now have seen that Mrs K now had a clear history of taking out new loans to 
repay previous ones. Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that there was clear 
evidence to demonstrate that Match the Cash ought to have realised that Mrs K was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay this loan.
Loan four
Loan four was taken out in June 2018, this was a total of £7,750. This loan went in 
part to settle loan three and the monthly repayments increased to £375. The loan 
purpose was listed as for home improvements and a holiday.
Ive already explained why I think that loan three was unfairly lent; and it follows that 
loan four would also be. Mrs Ks circumstances hadnt improved to the point where 
the increase in payments and overall debt was sustainable. The statements which 
Match the Cash gathered demonstrated again that at best she would be breaking 
even before considering the increased payment. Mrs K had continued to enter into 
her overdraft and was still gambling at similar levels as before. Her overall level of 
debt had also increased since loan three had been approved.
So considering this, and what Ive concluded in relation to loan three, Im not 
persuaded that Match the Cash lent loan four responsibly.Mrs K responded accepting the findings to my provisional decision. Match the Cash did not 
respond within the relevant timeframe.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs K accepted my provisional decision, and Match the Cash did not respond with any 
further comments, Im satisfied my provisional decision should remain. That is to say Im 
satisfied this complaint should be upheld.
This is for the detailed reasons outlined above, but for clarity:
Loan one was lent responsibly, as the checks demonstrated that Mrs K could afford 
the necessary repayments (whilst noting Mrs Ks expenditure on gambling).
Loan two was similar to loan one. The information demonstrated Mrs K could afford 
the repayments without increasing her indebtedness in a way which was 
unsustainable or unharmful.
Loan three was irresponsibly lent. This was because Mrs Ks gambling had 
continued; and the information Match the Cash gathered demonstrated that her 
outgoings had increased beyond her income. She had also continued to rely on other 
forms of credit to help supplement her income. This loan was not going to help 
consolidate any of her existing debts and her repayments were increasing 
significantly. 
Loan four was also unfairly lent. Mrs Ks circumstances hadnt improved to the point 
where the increase in payments and overall debt was sustainable.   
Putting things right
Mrs K has lost out financially as a result of Match the Cashs actions. She has had to pay 
additional interest and charges. As such Match the Cash Limited trading as 
Guaratormyloan.tv needs to put things right.
In order to do so, I require Match the Cash to:
In relation to loan three:
oRefund the interest and charges that Ms K has paid in relation loan three;
oThis amount should be refunded along with 8% simple interested (calculated 
from the date the payments were made until the date of settlement)*
oTo remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ks credit file in relation 
to loan three.
In relation to loan four:
oAdd up the total amount of money Mrs K received as a result of having been 
given this loan. The repayments Mrs K made should be deducted from this 
amount; as well as any charges or fees associated with the loan.a) If this results in Mrs K having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest 
(calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of 
settlement). *
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Match the Cash should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs K.
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
Match the Cash need to remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ks credit 
file regarding this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Match the Cash to take off tax from this interest. Match 
the Cash must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Match the Cash Limited trading as 
Guarantormyloan.tv.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman