DRN-2858596
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank passed on her 
personal information to a third-party debt purchaser without her consent.
What happened
Mrs W previously had a credit card account with Tesco Bank, which had been taken over by 
a third-party debt purchaser, who Ill call D, in October 2019. 
In October 2020 Mrs W complained to Tesco Bank as she believed it had given her 
personal, sensitive information to D without her permission. She wasnt happy with the way 
that D had communicated with her, as she found this to be intimidating. She said Tesco 
Bank had assured her that the debt company would treat her appropriately. 
But Tesco Bank said that it hadnt been aware of the particular information about Mrs W, so 
it wouldnt have been able to pass it on to D. It said it was sorry that Mrs W felt she hadnt 
been treated fairly by D but said that D wanted to provide her with a possible solution for her 
circumstances. Tesco Bank said that future contact would need to be with D as the owner of 
the account.
 
Mrs W supplied a copy of email she had sent Tesco Bank in June 2017, where she had 
referred to the personal information. So she said it had been aware of this. She recalled 
receiving a letter from D where it had said that Tesco Bank had told it about this in a phone 
call. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Tesco Bank had recognised that it received Mrs Ws email, but that the information 
she shared in it hadnt been recorded on her account information. Because of this, it wouldnt 
have been able to pass the information onto D. The investigator also contacted D and it told 
him that Tesco Bank hadnt passed it any such information. 
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that she had received a letter from 
D which confirmed it had information that Tesco Bank had given it. She didnt have a copy of 
this letter any longer and had tried to request a copy from D, but it hadnt replied to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have been sorry to learn of all that Mrs W has been through. I can appreciate how it will 
have been deeply upsetting to believe that private and personal information has been 
passed on to another business without her giving permission for this to be shared. 
Ive thought about all that shes told us and reviewed the information provided. But I havent 
seen that Tesco Bank did pass on the specific information about Mrs W to D.
I appreciate that Mrs W recalls receiving a letter from D that confirmed Tesco Bank provided 
the information to it. Its unfortunate that she no longer has that letter. I can see that she has 
endeavoured to get a copy of this from D, and I can understand that it will be frustrating that 
she hasnt received this. But where Ive not seen this information  I have to rely on the 
evidence that I do have.
 
The investigator has spoken to D and it confirmed to him that Tesco Bank hadnt passed it 
any sensitive information about Mrs W. Ive also seen in an email to Mrs W that D told her 
that information like this wouldnt normally be shared. I realise that Mrs W doesnt feel this is 
enough to show that the information wasnt shared. But I have to look at this complaint 
impartially  and having done so, I accept that both businesses have said that this 
information hasnt been shared and without any evidence to the contrary  this means that 
Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the information wasnt shared by Tesco Bank in 
the way Mrs W believes it was. 
I can see that Ds letter to Mrs W in October 2020 referred to the information. D thanked 
Mrs W for her own letter advising it of her circumstances and her offer of a repayment 
amount. The letter asked Mrs W some questions to allow it to assess her situation. I do 
appreciate her comments about the content of this letter. I am sorry that she was caused 
upset by this. But this letter suggests to me that D became aware of Mrs Ws situation 
through the details she shared with it, which seems to be why it questioned whether these 
circumstances made it difficult for her manage her finances. 
I also acknowledge the email Mrs W has provided from June 2017, which she sent to 
Tescos former Chief Executive Officer. Tesco Bank has told us that the details Mrs W gave 
in this email wouldnt have been recorded or noted in a way that would form part of the 
account information Tesco Bank may hold about Mrs W. It has explained that the way it 
deals with vulnerable customers now is very different to how it was in 2017. It accepts that it 
received Mrs Ws email but says that the information within it was only in that email  it 
wasnt then recorded anywhere else to be accessible with Mrs Ws account information or 
details. And I think this is supported as Tesco Bank was initially unable to find it and was 
unaware of it, as Tesco Bank would only have been reviewing Mrs Ws specific account 
information to respond to her complaint.
Taking everything into account, I havent seen sufficient information to say that Tesco Bank 
did pass on this particular information to D.
 
I would like to say that it is not the case that I disbelieve what Mrs W has told us; it is simply 
that I havent seen the information to say with certainty that Tesco Bank did pass on her 
personal details.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman