DRN-3577837
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied, when he handed back a car he acquired under a hire agreement.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr K entered into a two-year hire agreement to acquire a new car. The car 
was collected on 28 October 2021 by MBFSs recovery agents  who Ill refer to as B.
B issued a report on the condition of Mr Ks car when it collected it. It identified a couple of 
areas where the car was damaged and it noted that the parcel shelf was missing. Following 
this, the car was inspected at Bs defleet centre on 2 November 2021. B issued a further 
report which said the following damage was outside of fair wear and tear and considered 
chargeable:
1. Bumper front  scratched - £210
2. Left hand rear door  dented - £260
3. Left hand rear door inner shut  dented - £130
4. Parcel shelf  missing - £307.90
5. Right hand front door  scratched - £210
The charges totalled £1,117.90. Mr K queried the charges with MBFS and said he inspected 
the car before returning it and it wasnt damaged. He also said he called B to let it know the 
parcel shelf had been left behind and B told him someone would return to collect it, but this 
didnt happen. 
MBFS reviewed the charges and agreed to remove the charges for the bumper front and the 
right hand front door. This reduced the outstanding charges to £697.90. But Mr K remained 
unhappy with this and so complained to MBFS.
In December 2021, MBFS issued its response to Mr Ks complaint. It said the remaining 
charges had been applied correctly in line with its vehicle return standards (VRS). And that 
B had advised it didnt ever say it would collect the parcel shelf from Mr K after the 
inspection of the car.
Unhappy with this, Mr K referred his complaint to this service. He said when the car was 
collected from him, B didnt identify any areas of damage. He said he wanted MBFS to 
withdraw the charges and he wanted an apology from MBFS.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought the charge for the parcel shelf and 
the left hand rear door dent had been calculated fairly in line with MBFS own VRS and the 
industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) fair wear 
and tear guidelines. But she thought the charge for the left hand rear door inner shut dent 
had been unfairly calculated. She also acknowledged that Mr K was likely to have suffered 
some distress and inconvenience when he queried the damages and attempted to hand 
back the parcel shelf. So she recommended MBFS pay Mr K £50 in recognition of this.
MBFS agreed to remove the charge for the left hand rear door dent and pay Mr K £50 
compensation. It also agreed to remove the charge for the left hand rear door inner shut. But 
Mr K disagreed. He said B told him the parcel shelf would be picked up from him or that hed 
be allowed to post it to MBFS. And so, he didnt think it was fair for MBFS to charge him for 
the cost of the missing parcel shelf.
As Mr K remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
MBFS is only pursuing Mr K for the cost of the missing parcel shelf. So Ive only considered 
this charge as part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. MBFS isnt a member of the BVRLA, but as they are relevant industry 
guidelines, Ive considered these alongside MBFS own VRS.
The VRS are set out in Mr Ks hire agreement and these explain the standards that MBFS 
expected this car to meet on return. When Mr K acquired his car under the hire agreement, 
he agreed to return the car in line with the standards set out in the VRS. He also agreed to 
compensate MBFS for any loss it may suffer and that MBFS would be entitled to charge him 
for costs of repairs and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in 
the sale value, as compensation. 
The VRS state that the car must be returned with no missing components or parts which 
were fitted as standard equipment.
Mr K isnt disputing that the parcel shelf wasnt in the car when it was collected by B. Instead 
he says B should have told him the parcel shelf was missing when it collected the car. He 
says he still has the parcel shelf and when he called B after being notified the parcel shelf 
hadnt been returned, it told him it would return to collect it. But B has said it didnt say this.
As both Mr K and B provided two conflicting version of events about the parcel shelf, Ive 
thought about what I think is most likely to have happened on a balance of probabilities.
Mr K has maintained that when the car was collected from him and B carried out an initial 
inspection, he was told that everything was okay. However, the condition report lists the 
parcel shelf as missing and it lists some areas where damage was identified to the car. The 
condition report also confirms that Mr K didnt agree with the reported condition of the car. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that B did tell Mr K that the parcel shelf was 
missing at the time it collected the car. I say this because the version of events Mr K has 
described, doesnt appear to be supported by the inspection report carried out by B at 
collection. I think its likely that Mr K did raise that he was unhappy with the scratches 
notified and the parcel shelf being noted as missing at the time of inspection, as stated on 
the condition report. Had Mr K been told that everything was okay by B as he says he was, I 
think it unlikely the report would have contained comment to the effect that Mr K didnt agree 
with the condition report. 
Mr K says he still has the parcel shelf and when he was notified that the parcel shelf was 
missing, he contacted B to arrange the collection of it. However, B disputes this and has said 
it didnt ever agree to collect the parcel shelf. Having thought about this carefully, I think its 
unlikely on balance that Mr K did call B to arrange collection of the parcel shelf. But even if 
he did, the car was returned to MBFS without the parcel shelf. And so B wasnt obliged to go 
back and collect it, as importantly Mr K was required to ensure the car had all its 
components in it when it was returned to it. MBFS is entitled to charge Mr K for any loss it has suffered. In this case, it says it replaced 
the parcel shelf as it was missing when the car was returned by Mr K. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr K for the cost of replacing it.
Ive gone on to think about whether I think Mr K was caused any distress and inconvenience 
by B after it sent him the invoice for damage to the car. Having done so, I think he was 
caused some inconvenience. 
MBFS initially sent Mr K an invoice identifying chargeable damage in five areas and Mr K 
was required to dispute this to have two of the charges removed. So, I think hes likely to 
have suffered some inconvenience and I think MBFS should pay Mr K £50 compensation as 
suggested by our investigator. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should do the following, as it has now agreed to do:
reduce Mr Ks invoice for damage charges to £307.90; and
pay Mr K £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If MBFS does not pay this £50 compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Mr K accepts my final decision, then it must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman