DRN-1651760
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr J and Mr S say HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr J and Mr Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
As the sale happened over 20 years ago, theres limited information available from the time. 
So, where I dont have any clear evidence, Ive considered what I know about the way HSBC 
sold these policies in general and thought about what is most likely to have happened based 
on everything Ive been told. 
Mr J and Mr S say they were told the PPI was a necessity and it was made clear to them 
that they needed to take the policy to get the borrowing. HSBC says it would have made it 
clear to Mr J and Mr S that the PPI was optional, and it wouldve got their consent before 
adding the cover. 
HSBC has given me a copy of Mr J and Mr Ss Personal Financial Planning Review. It 
looks as though discussions took place about Mr J and Mr Ss financial situation. And it 
seems as though the adviser made a recommendation for them to take out the PPI. From 
what we know about HSBCs sales policies like Mr J and Mr S at the time in question, it 
usually made it clear that the policy was optional. And had the PPI been a compulsory part 
of the borrowing, I think it is unlikely that HSBC would have then advised Mr J and Mr S to 
take out something that they had to have in order to obtain the mortgage. On that basis  
and in the absence of persuasive evidence that something very different happened in this 
case  I think it most likely HSBC made it clear that Mr J and Mr S didnt have to take out the 
PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this.
HSBC says it recommended the PPI to Mr J and Mr S, so it had to check the PPI was right 
for them. Based on what Ive seen of Mr J and Mr Ss circumstances at the time, I think the 
policy was suitable for them. 
For example, they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem to have had a need for the cover.  Mr J and Mr S say they wouldnt have needed 
the PPI because they both had sick pay benefits from their employers. But the PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of any sick pay they might have got, as well as covering them if either of 
them lost their jobs. I have noted Mr J and Mr S comments about the savings they had, but they were taking on 
a large financial commitment secured against their home. And the effects of not keeping up 
with the repayments could have been serious for them. So, I think they would have wanted 
the security of knowing their mortgage repayments would have been covered if either of 
them was unable to work due to being made redundant or were too unwell to work. And on 
this basis, I think Mr J and Mr S could have still found the policy useful. As such I dont think 
it was wrong for HSBC to have recommended it to them. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr J and Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But it seems like it was affordable at the time. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
I know Mr J and Mr S feel strongly about their complaint and will be disappointed by this 
outcome. And Ive thought carefully about all the points they have raised. But overall, I dont 
think they have lost out as a result of anything HSBC might have done wrong. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman