DRN-4438510
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Prudential Insurance Company Limited (Prudential)) will not allow 
him to take income drawdown from his pension plan without him using a financial advisor. 
And that Prudential did not tell him about this requirement before he wished to take benefits.
What happened
Mr S had several pension plans with Prudential. One was already an income drawdown plan 
(IDP) set up several years ago. His other plans had yet to provide benefits. Mr S had used 
an independent financial adviser (IFA) but removed it from his arrangements in September 
2022, as he felt he no longer needed it. In June 2023 Mr S wanted to take some tax-free 
cash from the plans not yet in drawdown. Prudential said a new plan would need to be set 
up, but this could only be done through a financial adviser. Mr S felt this was unnecessary as 
he was aware of his options and the risks involved. 
Mr S complained to Prudential. It didnt uphold his complaint. It said given the importance of 
the decision and the multiple factors to be considered to ensure this was suitable to your 
individual needs and circumstances, its internal policy was that the involvement of a 
financial adviser was mandatory. Mr S said Prudential should have told him he needed to 
use a financial adviser to move to an IDP when he was discussing removing the adviser 
from his plans. He said hed contacted an adviser, whose fees would be over £6,000 to 
advise on his arrangements. The adviser had also recommended he switch investment 
funds to reduce charges. But that this would crystalise negative adjustments in the smoothed 
investment funds he currently held of around £30,000, which he felt was unnecessary. And 
the combined costs made withdrawing the £10,000 he wanted unviable.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it.
Our investigator said it wasnt a regulatory requirement that Mr S took financial advice over 
commencing drawdown. But as doing so with Prudential required a new contract, it was 
entitled to set the conditions on what basis this could be arranged. He said there was no 
evidence Prudential had misled Mr S about this requirement. But he said it could have better 
explained the reasons why a financial adviser needed to be involved. He said Mr S was 
aware that he could transfer to a drawdown plan with other providers without needing to take 
financial advice. And that Prudential had offered an alternative mechanism for Mr S to 
access the funds he wanted from the plan currently in drawdown. 
Our investigator said he understood the point about the potential capital loss that would be 
incurred if the plan was transferred. But that didnt mean Prudential was at fault, as there 
was no evidence this was caused by anything other than market movements which were an 
inherent part of investment products. He said Prudential hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr S disagreed. He accepted that Prudential had the right to make commercial decisions. 
But he said part of his complaint had been that the requirement to use a financial adviser 
wasnt mentioned previously or anywhere in Prudentials literature, which only suggested 
advice be taken. And it should have mentioned this when he discussed removing the adviser 
in September 2022 and he would have reconsidered.
As Mr S doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 27 October 2023; I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint in part. 
I understand Mr Ss frustration here as Prudential are happy to deal with him directly in 
respect of his existing IDP, but not facilitate the arrangement of a new one without him taking 
advice. As hes aware this isnt a regulatory requirement, and many providers will facilitate a 
transfer into income drawdown without an adviser being involved. But our service doesnt 
regulate financial businesses and it isnt my role to tell Prudential to change its procedures, 
but I can consider whether these have resulted in an unfair outcome. 
In this case Prudential has presumably decided that the business risk is too great to accept 
unadvised drawdown applications. Mr Ss existing plans dont facilitate drawdown. It isnt 
unreasonable that it sets conditions on the basis it is prepared to arrange the new contract 
required. That means I cant tell Prudential to set up an IDP for Mr S without him taking 
advice. And I dont think it has treated him unfairly by having these requirements, despite the 
inconvenience it has caused him. However, I think he would have been caused less 
inconvenience had it made this requirement clear at an early stage. Because from its 
literature it wasnt clear that this feature wasnt directly available.  
Mr S has provided various annual statements and other documents, including those issued 
when he requested payment of benefits. These set out the options available and repeatedly 
recommend that advice be taken. But they dont say advice must be taken or that certain 
options, like drawdown wont be facilitated. Indeed, one section of Prudentials brochure 
Your Pension, your choice discusses using a financial adviser and says;
If you dont take advice and end up in a product thats unsuitable for you, its unlikely 
youll be able to make a complaint.
And in Prudentials letter of 9 June 2023, setting out what options were available, including 
drawdown, the first page says:
After you consider your options, and get any guidance or advice you need, please 
give us a call to let us know what decision you've made.
On page 4 it says:
We strongly recommend that you get financial advice.
The annual statement dated June 2023 sent to Mr S also sets out what options are available 
when benefits are taken. This includes a description of drawdown. It says;
To do this, you may need to transfer to a drawdown plan, and you might need 
financial advice.And;
How you take your benefits is one of the most important decisions you'll make. We 
suggest you get information and advice on it
It recommends that the Pension Wise service is consulted and, relevantly, it points out that 
Prudential doesnt offer some options like enhanced annuities. These documents were 
specifically about the plan Mr S held. And, whilst there is clearly some generic content in 
them, I think its reasonable that these should have identified the specific requirement that 
advice had to be taken if the drawdown option was wanted through Prudential. Rather than 
only suggesting it might be needed. 
I havent seen evidence that Mr S was in urgent need of the funds that he wanted. But he 
certainly seems to have had to make multiple calls to Prudential over many weeks, to clarify 
that he couldnt access his benefits with it in the way he wanted without taking advice. And 
had he been made aware of the restriction earlier he would have been able to better plan 
taking his benefits, particularly if there were considerations over investment valuations. So, I 
think he has been caused some distress and inconvenience over what has happened, and it 
is fair that he be compensated for that.  
Putting things right
  
I think its reasonable that Prudential should have made Mr S aware of its requirements in 
this area sooner. Not doing so increased the level of inconvenience and frustration as well 
as delaying matters. So, I think it is fair that Prudential should pay him £100 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Mr S said he accepted my decision but remained disappointed by Prudentials requirement 
that he take advice. He said he was considering transferring one of his plans to another 
provider who didnt have this requirement.
Prudential said it had nothing to add and agreed with the £100 compensation Id suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part.
I dont think it is unreasonable for Prudential to choose the basis on which it will offer new 
contracts. But I think it could have made any requirements here clearer as Mr S was an 
existing customer. Had it, he would have suffered less inconvenience and would have been 
better able to manage his financial affairs. 
Hopefully Mr S will be able to sort out what he wants without further difficulties. And I think it 
fair that Prudential should compensate him for the inconvenience hes been caused.Putting things right
Mr S has been inconvenienced and I think it is fair that Prudential pay him £100 in 
compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part against The Prudential Insurance Company Limited.
I direct The Prudential Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S £100 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman