DRN-3979180
The complaint
Mr G complains that CB Payments Ltd (CB) wont refund money he lost as a result of a 
scam. 
What happened
Commencing on or around January 2021, Mr G says he fell victim to a multi-layered 
operation orchestrated by a company Ill refer to as B. Mr G says B sold him an investment 
opportunity and he was persuaded to transfer money to his existing account with CB and 
purchase crypto via Coinbase. That crypto was sent onto the scammer and Mr G says he 
lost approximately £17,660 as a result. 
Mr G complained that Coinbase failed to recognise that he was falling victim to a scam and 
also failed to intervene and appropriately warn him. He feels Coinbase could have prevented 
his loss and asked for it to return his money. 
Coinbase replied and said Mr G purchased Bitcoin and Ethereum and sent it to a number of 
external blockchain addresses. It said it has no control over these blockchain addresses and 
it cannot verify who owns them. As Mr G authorised the payments, they cannot be cancelled, 
reversed or recovered in accordance with his user agreement. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this office.
 
CB objected to this office considering the complaint on the basis that the complaint does not 
relate to the issuance of e-money or the provision of any payment service provided by it as 
an e-money business. Rather, the complaint relates to digital asset services, over which we 
have no jurisdiction. It said the service complained about  specifically the sending of 
cryptocurrency is a service provided by Coinbase Europe which is unregulated. 
One of our Investigators felt we couldnt consider the complaint based on the fact that the 
matter complained about was an unregulated activity and therefore something this office 
cannot consider. Mr G didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. 
He said in summary that:
CB provided services to scammers and sent his crypto to them.
Good industry practice ought to mean that CB protect customers from financial harm 
as a result of fraud or financial abuse. 
CB as a member of the Electronic Money Association (EMA) should have had 
systems in place to detect, prevent and respond to fraud and adhere to anti-money 
laundering (AML) regulations. 
On 6 February 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
I dont intend to uphold this complaint for reasons Ill go onto explain. But I have reached 
different conclusions to that of our investigator, hence my invitation to both parties to provide 
any further information they wish for me to rely on before making my final decision. 
I think I can consider some aspects of this complaint. But I think there are several points Mr 
G has raised that our service doesnt have the power to consider. 
Weve previously made CB aware of our jurisdiction to consider complaints like Mr Gs, so I 
dont intend to repeat in great detail here why our service can consider some of the 
complaint points that have been raised. But to summarise, because Mr G deposited fiat 
currency into his CB wallet and purchased crypto, he was provided with electronic money 
services by CB, and Im satisfied Mr Gs complaint relates, at least in part, to those services, 
we can consider this aspect of Mr Gs complaint. 
However, when Mr G purchased crypto, it was added to his digital wallet held with Coinbase 
Europe. Coinbase Europe isnt a regulated entity and our service cant consider a complaint 
related to it, or any of the other crypto activity or transactions carried out from Mr Gs wallet. 
This means I will not be able to consider Mr Gs concerns about:
Recovering his crypto
Monitoring fraudulent blockchains
Blocking a crypto payment for further checks
Ive therefore thought about the aspects of Mr Gs complaint that I can consider. 
The starting point for my considerations is that Mr G is generally solely responsible for 
payments he made himself. And it doesnt appear to be disputed that at the time the 
payments were made, he believed he was involved in a genuine investment opportunity. Mr 
G also made all the payments to his CB account from his own bank account and he could 
see a corresponding amount on the fake trading platform provided by B. Mr G also had 
access to his CB account as he opened this some time before he got involved with B. 
As Mr G authorised the payments, hes presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. But 
that isnt the end of things. I agree with Mr G that CB should monitor its customers accounts 
for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. This should include 
monitoring account activity for transactions that are unusual or out of character. In some 
circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry out additional checks, before 
processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr G already held his account with CB before the scammers persuaded him to invest with B. 
Ive therefore reviewed his CB account from May 2020 (when it appears to have first been 
funded). Ive noted that Mr G regularly used his CB account to deposit and withdraw funds 
as well as buying and selling crypto. Transactions prior to the disputed payments would 
range from £1 to around £1,500. His account was regularly used and sometimes there were 
multiple transactions on any one day. As CB provide a specialised account  offering only 
the ability to buy and, receive the proceeds of the sale from, crypto, I dont think the activity 
that took place from 11 January 2021 to April 2021 (the period of the scam) was particularly 
unusual when considering the normal operation of Mr Gs CB account as this is what he 
commonly used his account for.
Theres also no dispute that it was Mr G who funded the account with his own, legitimate 
funds. AML obligations extend beyond the opening of an account and origins of the funds 
deposited to an account, those obligations are not always aligned with preventing financial 
harm from fraud. They are primarily aimed at preventing criminals laundering money. That 
means that even if CB had found the activity on Mr Gs account to be suspicious from an AML perspective (though I dont agree there was any cause for suspicion here), it doesnt 
necessarily follow that the scam would have been uncovered. 
For that to happen, I think CB would have had to have had a fairly detailed conversation with 
Mr G and discussed the wider circumstances surrounding the payment. It then might have 
been in a position to provide a warning about the dangers of falling victim to crypto scams. 
But, I think it would be onerous to expect CB to do that for every customer and every 
transaction. Instead, I think it was only obliged to do this where it had cause to be concerned 
about the risk of fraud. And, after considering Mr Gs disputed payments, I dont think that 
was the case here for the reasons Ive explained. As Mr G didnt contact or speak to CB 
during the scam, I also cant see any other reason for it to have suspected fraud. 
Im also satisfied that Mr Gs funds could not be recovered as it is accepted they were sent 
off the Coinbase platform, in crypto, to a third party. 
Responses to my provisional decision
CB replied to my provisional findings accepting them and didnt have anything further to add. 
 
Mr G replied to my provisional findings confirming he had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties didnt have any further comments to add to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from what Ive said.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that despite my natural sympathies for Mr Gs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman