DRN-3975381
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly removed his overdraft facility.
What happened
Mr L says he has been a Barclays customer for some years and had an overdraft facility on 
his account. He says Barclays removed the facility unfairly and without any discussions with 
him about the decision. Mr L says its not clear why the facility was removed and says he 
has been caused distress as a result. He also says Barclays didnt communicate 
appropriately with him after the decision and didnt handle his complaint as it should have. 
Mr L would like compensation and the facility reinstated.
Barclays said it wrote to Mr L on 8 July 2022 telling him it was removing the overdraft facility 
as its entitled to do in line with account terms and conditions. It agrees it didnt handle the 
complaint appropriately and didnt follow the correct process after the decision was made but 
says its original decision was correct. Barclays offered £50 compensation for the poor 
service.
Mr L brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought Barclays must have carried out a new application for an overdraft facility 
that Mr L may not have consented to. The investigator didnt think Barclays had handled 
parts of the complaint appropriately and recommended it pay £100 compensation and 
remove any search records from Mr Ls credit file.
Barclays has agreed to pay that amount but says there was no search carried out.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and in summary says there has been no consideration of his 
good account management and no correspondence with him before the letter telling him the 
facility was being removed. He says he has not been given copies of internal documents 
about him and suggests it would be fraud to make a new application without his consent. He 
also says the compensation isnt enough but accepts he doesnt appear to have used the 
overdraft facility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he 
feels about what took place.
I hope it helps Mr L to understand our role here. We are not a consumer champion or 
Barclays regulator. We look at complaints independently of either side to a complaint. So, I 
cant direct that Barclays change its policy for example on overdrafts or order it consider how 
long Mr L has been its customer.
The starting point for changes to an agreement is the account terms and conditions which I 
think Mr L would have agreed to when the account was first opened. I have looked at 
Barclays terms and conditions for bank accounts and overdrafts online. I can see those 
terms and conditions make clear that an overdraft is not a right and can be reduced or 
removed by providing a customer with 30 days notice. I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr L 
on 8 July 2022 telling him his overdraft facility of £370 was being removed on 26 August 
2022 which is more than the required 30 days notice.
So, Im satisfied Barclays didnt make a mistake or act unfairly and acted in line with agreed 
account terms and conditions. Im also satisfied its up to Barclays to decide if it lends 
money, as an overdraft is lending, when it exercises its commercial judgement. Mr L doesnt 
have an automatic right to such a facility, and I dont think it matters how long he has been a 
customer for. I also doesnt think Barclays is obliged to speak to Mr L as he suggests in 
advance of such a decision.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ls account statements, and I dont think he has used his 
overdraft facility in any event or that he has even come close to using it. I appreciate 
circumstances can change but there appears little evidence of that likelihood here. And of 
course, its open to Mr L to apply for such a facility if his circumstances do change.
There is no question here that Barclays didnt deal with Mr L as it ought to have after the 
decision was made. The investigator has explained that we cant consider how complaints 
are handled as that is not a regulated matter. But Barclays accepts it made mistakes and 
has paid £100 compensation which I think is fair and reasonable for those parts of the 
complaint it relates to. I accept that is not the main part of the complaint and dont think 
whatever took place justifies further compensation. I dont think it clear if Mr L reapplied for 
the overdraft facility or if Barclays did but dont think it matters as Mr L clearly wanted his 
overdraft reinstated and so there would have had to be an application at some point.
I appreciate Mr L suggests there may be documents in Barclays possession that may be 
relevant and questions if there was a fraud. I am satisfied, as I have made clear, Barclays is 
entitled to remove an overdraft facility as it has done here by giving appropriate notice. I find 
that is the main issue and so it follows I cant fairly order Barclays reinstate that facility. I also 
find that this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do. 
I cant see that any documents that Barclays may have are likely to have any relevance to 
the decision to remove an overdraft and I dont think Mr L has explained what documents he 
believes are in Barclays possession or what relevance they may have.
Putting things right
Barclays has paid the £100 compensation which Mr L initially agreed to and so I dont 
require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part but find Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
made a fair and reasonable compensation offer which has been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman