DRN-3064879
The complaint
Mr E complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) have unfairly declined his legal 
expenses insurance claim.
Amtrust use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance and manage claims 
on their behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as 
including the acts or omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
Mr E holds a legal expenses policy with Amtrust. He made a claim for assistance with 
pursuing his employer for unfair dismissal, discrimination and breach of contract as a result 
of the way it carried outs its collective redundancy process. 
However, Amtrust declined the claim as they said that Mr Es employment dispute was one 
of several claims being made against the same employer. They said that all the individuals 
involved in the legal action were seeking the same or similar outcomes, which all resulted 
from the collective redundancy process. So Amtrust said it wouldnt be covered due to a 
clause in the policy that excludes claims that are part of a class action or that will affect the 
outcome of other claims.
Mr E complained that Amtrust had declined the claim unfairly. He said that his claim was not 
part of a class action because there is no such term or concept within UK employment law. 
And while he acknowledged that his claim was similar to that of other ex-employees, he said 
it was nonetheless an individual claim. Mr E said he completed his own claim form, and that 
he doesnt consider that it would affect the outcome of others because each case could win 
or lose based on its own individual facts.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that Mr Es claim could be 
considered as a class action. But he was satisfied that Amtrust had still declined the claim 
fairly, as it was clear that the Employment Tribunal intended to consider Mr Es claim 
alongside other similar claims being made against the same employer, such that it could 
reasonably be said that it would likely affect (or could be affected by) the outcome of other 
cases. Mr E disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms and conditions state:
Theres no cover for:
Costs if your claim is part of a class action, will be affected by, or will affect the 
outcome of other claims. 
Mr E submits that his claim can neither be considered as part of a class action, and nor will it 
affect or be affected by the outcome of other claims. So Ive considered both parts of this 
exclusion to determine whether it has been applied fairly.
The term class action has not been defined within the policy, meaning we must look 
beyond the policy document to determine what is meant by this phrase. When considering 
the scope of the term class action and its meaning within the context of English law, its 
helpful first to examine the different ways in which a group of litigants can bring the same (or 
similar) legal action in the UK Courts. Traditionally, the terminology class action was only 
used in the context of the US legal system and a few other jurisdictions around the world, 
and typically refers to an opt out form of litigation where potential claimants fall within a 
defined class and will be included in a claim unless they choose to opt out.
Group litigation procedures have also long existed in English law, but they havent 
historically been referred to as class actions. The Civil Procedure Rules, for example, set 
out the formal collective action procedures available for use in the High Court. These 
include:
Group litigation orders;
Representative actions; and
Claims that can be conveniently disposed of in the same proceedings by the court.
All of these group litigation procedures operate on an opt-in basis whereby all claimants 
have to be part of a given claim in order to share in any remedy. There is no scope for an 
opt-out style of class action, and neither is this terminology used within the Civil Procedure 
Rules itself. These procedures are also only available for use in the High Court - and not in 
the Employment Tribunal, which is where Mr Es case is being pursued.
The Employment Tribunal has its own set of rules and procedures for group litigation. Rule 9 
of the Employment Tribunal Rules of Procedure 2013 allows for multiple claimants by way of 
two or more individuals making their claims on the same claim form if they give rise to 
common or related issues of fact or law. Rule 36 of the 2013 Rules allows the Employment 
Tribunal to specify one or more claims as a lead case for it to consider while staying the 
related claims-with the decision of the Tribunal subsequently being binding on the other 
related claims. The Tribunal also has general case management powers under Rule 29 of 
the 2013 rules to consolidate claims if this will save costs and time (e.g. where two claims 
arise out of substantially similar facts). But again, in common with the Civil Procedure Rules, 
there is no reference in the Employment Tribunal Rules of Procedure 2013 to class actions 
or of the multiple/consolidated/lead case systems being termed as such.
A new category of group action was, however, subsequently introduced by the CRA 2015 
which is more akin to the class-action lawsuits seen in the USA. Schedule 8 of the Act 
amended sections 47A and 47B of the Competition Act 1998, to allow for collective 
proceedings to be brought by multiple claimants in the Competition Appeals Tribunal 
(CAT)  the first such system to make allowances for an opt-out form of group litigation in 
English Law. In the recent Supreme Court case (brought by our former chief ombudsman) 
Mastercard Incorporated and others v Walter Hugh Merricks CBE [2020] UKSC 51  Lord 
Briggs said there are three key features of these collective proceedings:
1) Claims by any number of claimants may be pursued on their behalf by a single representative who may, but need not be, a member of the class. The claims need 
not be identical, and they need not all be against all the defendants, but they must all 
raise the same, similar or related issues of fact or law.
2) The remedy sought may, but need not always, be the award of what are called 
aggregate damages. This type of damages provides just compensation for the loss 
suffered by the claimant class as a whole, but the amount need not be computed by 
reference to an assessment of the amount of damages recoverable by each member 
of the class individually.
3) The CAT has discretion as to how aggregate damages (if recovered) are to be 
distributed among members of the class.
I acknowledge that Schedule 8 of the CRA 2015 references collective proceedings. 
However, in the Merricks case, the Supreme Court adopted the terminology of class 
actions where it was used synonymously with, and as a term of art for, collective 
proceedings in the CAT. For example. Lord Sales in his judgment set out:
Class actions
A new class action regime was Introduced in the United Kingdom In 2015 as part of a 
wider set of reforms of private actions for breaches of competition law. The central 
rationale for any class action regime Is that It enables claimants to benefit from the 
same economies of scale as are already naturally enjoyed by the defendant as a 
single litigant. It does so by allowing numerous Individual claims to be combined into 
a single claim brought on behalf of a class of persons.
But in reference to this regime of class actions. Lord Sales said:
The regime Is limited in scope to claims to which 47A of the Act applies. These are, 
broadly speaking, claims for redress for loss or damage caused by an Infringement 
or alleged Infringement of competition law.
In the Merricks case. Lord Sales goes on to differentiate between Group actions which 
enable a (potentially large) number of claimants to litigate common Issues together, allowing 
them to share costs and obtain one judgment and Collective proceedings brought under 
section 47B of the Act that require judicial certification by the CAT in order to proceed. But 
as set out above, the Court only refers to the latter as class actions  it does not group all 
formal group action procedures in English law (such as those used in the High Court or 
Employment Tribunal) under this umbrella. And Lord Sales said that the new regime of 
class actions is limited in scope to breaches of competition law.
So, in light of the considerations set out above, Ive considered what the term class action 
means in the context of Mr Es legal expenses policy in the absence of any specific definition 
having been assigned to it. When a court interprets a contract, it seeks to determine what a 
reasonable person would have understood the parties to have meant by the language used, 
where the reasonable person is taken to have all the background knowledge which would 
have been reasonably available to the parties at the time of the contract (see the judgment 
of Lord Hoffman in Chartbrook Ltd v Persimmon Homes Ltd [2009] UKHL 38). When a 
certain phrase has a natural and ordinary meaning, it will generally be given that meaning. 
But where it has a technical meaning, it will usually be interpreted in accordance with its 
technical meaning unless the context or the policy wording has altered that meaning. If, 
however, a phrase has a natural and a technical meaning, then which one applies is to be 
determined in the context of the contract and also in line with what yields to commercial 
common sense.Taking account of the CRA 2015 and the recent judgment of the Supreme Court in the 
Merricks case, its clear that the term class action also has a technical meaning in English 
law (i.e. referring to collective proceedings brought in the CAT for loss or damage caused by 
an infringement of competition law). In the circumstances of Mr Es claim, the term is used 
within a legal expenses policy in the context of bringing legal proceedings. So, against this 
background, I consider that a court would likely interpret class action in line with this 
technical meaning in law. 
In my judgment, this is what the parties would have likely understood the term to have meant 
in the context of a legal expenses policy and is also the interpretation that yields to 
commercial common sense. I appreciate this is a consumer policy, but nonetheless, given 
there is seemingly no definitive natural or ordinary definition of class action that a 
reasonable consumer would readily understand, I still think the technical meaning would 
likely be considered by the court as being the correct one intended by the parties in these 
circumstances.
So, bearing this interpretation in mind, it does not appear that Mr Es legal action fits the 
criteria of being a class action in line with the technical meaning of the term. It is not part of 
any collective proceedings being brought on behalf of a particular class in the CAT for a 
breach of competition law. It also does not seemingly require judicial certification in order to 
proceed.
However, the above only deals with the first part of the exclusion relied upon by Amtrust to 
decline the claim, which also states that it will not cover claims which will be affected by or 
will affect the outcome of other claims.
Mr E submits that his claim will not affect or be affected by the outcome of others. He says 
that each of the claims has been submitted individually and they each have their own claim 
number. Mr E also considers his claim to be different from the rest as it has an added 
element of disability discrimination. But having considered all the evidence, there are several 
reasons why I consider that Mr Es claim will be likely to affect or be affected by the outcome 
of the other claims being brought against the same employer, for example:
The ET1 form has been ticked yes where it states:
Multiple cases 
Are you aware that your claim is one of a number of claims against the same 
employer arising from the same, or similar, circumstances?
Mr Es particulars of claim also list the names and ACAS numbers of 34 other group 
claimants bringing the same or similar legal action against the same employer.
Mr Es solicitors are representing around 35 other ex-employees in bringing 
discrimination and/or unfair dismissal claims against the same employer for the 
handling of its collective redundancy procedure. There has even been a 
crowdfunding page set up for people to contribute to a legal fund to pay for a top 
legal team to fight for us (the team of which is led by the partner of the firm 
representing Mr E).
The claimants name in the case against the employer has been listed as [Mr R] and 
18 others where Mr R has been named as the lead claimant, and Mr Es claim is 
part of the others joined to the legal action against the employer.I appreciate that Mr Es claim may have been submitted as an individual claim. But the 
evidence suggests that it has now essentially been absorbed into the other claims being 
made against the same employer, that will be heard in the Employment Tribunal together.
 
I accept its possible that some claims may be decided differently to others due to individual 
differences. But essentially, all the employees (including Mr E) are challenging the 
employers handling of the same matter, where it allegedly forced its employees to choose 
between redundancy or being fired and rehired on significantly inferior terms. The employer 
was able to submit master grounds of resistance that applied to all claimants, alongside 
supplementary grounds of resistance that responded to any particular individual allegations 
that had been made. 
So, although I accept that each claim may have its own particular nuances and differences in 
facts, its clear that there are also common themes that run through all cases, meaning they 
are similar enough such that they can be heard together in the Employment Tribunal. If each 
case were genuinely distinct and unique, it seems unlikely that the Tribunal would be able to 
consider them together in this way. Instead, it appears that the general intention here is for 
the lead/sample claim in the group to be heard first to deal with any common issues that flow 
through all the employees claims (rather than each single case being heard individually on 
its own merit). Indeed, if these cases were all being pursued individually by the solicitors 
instead of together as a group, it presumably would make the legal action unsuitable for 
crowdfunding, which is what Mr Es solicitors are also pursuing for the group.
I also appreciate that the tribunals decision may not be automatically binding on all other 
cases. However, the cases have nonetheless been combined and a sample lead claimant 
has been chosen (Mr R), where the Tribunal will look to determine some of the generic and 
common themes that run through all the other claims. So if the lead claimant, for example, is 
not successful in establishing liability on the common issues, this will seemingly have a 
knock-on effect for the other claims in the group and hinder their chances of succeeding on 
those same issues. Likewise  if they are successful in establishing liability, then the 
common issues that have already been decided by the Tribunal will not need to be 
considered in any other claims.
In other words, the way these cases are going to be considered by the Tribunal makes it 
clear that the decision made on the lead claimants case will most likely serve to shape the 
outcome of other claims (whether positively or negatively) including that of Mr Es. I 
appreciate he also has other supplementary grounds for claiming, such as disability 
discrimination. But this doesnt mean that the common issues present in his claim cannot 
also be decided as part of the group of claims being considered by the Tribunal. 
So on this basis. Im satisfied that Amtrust have applied the second part of the exclusion 
fairly because it seems most likely that Mr Es claim will be affected (at least in part) by the 
outcome of the other claims in the group.
Mr E says that he is aware of other claimants who are having their claims funded by 
insurance, and I accept that may well be the case. But each legal expenses policy will have 
its own separate terms and conditions. An insurer is entitled to choose which risks it is and 
isnt willing to cover. And in this policy  irrespective of the rationale behind it  Amtrust has 
set out that it is not willing to fund claims that will affect or will be affected by the outcome of 
others. 
I am aware, from deciding other complaints, that there are other legal expenses policies on 
the market that would cover claims of this variety, but Amtrusts policy doesnt. And in this 
case, Mr E brought his claim to his solicitors, where they are now being progressed and 
heard together with other similar cases in the Employment Tribunal. So, it is against this factual matrix that Im considering whether the insurer has applied the exclusion fairly. And 
for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that Amtrust have fairly declined Mr Es 
claim, as it seems most likely that the outcome of his claim will be affected (i.e. influenced 
or shaped) by the outcome of the other claims being pursued by the group of employees in 
the Tribunal.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr E, but I will not be asking Amtrust to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman