DRN-3140841
The complaint
Ms E has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs service in connection with a claim 
on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Ms E was in an accident. AXA arranged for one of its approved repairers (the garage) to 
repair her car. Ms E was unhappy with the garages service, not least because it delayed 
providing her with a courtesy car. She complained. AXA acknowledged some service failures 
and offered Ms E £200 compensation to address the impact of that. Ms E was satisfied, at 
that time, that AXA had resolved her concerns.
Some weeks later, in February 2021, Ms E identified an issue with her car relating to the 
initial repairs. The garage took the car back to fix but it didn't give Ms E a courtesy car. Ms E 
was very unhappy with the manner the garage spoke with her and that it had implied she 
was lying. Ms E complained. AXA asked the garage for some information. It told AXA that 
Ms E could have had a courtesy car if she'd accepted a later date to book her car in. AXA 
didn't uphold that point of Ms Es complaint. But it upheld her concern about the attitude of 
the garage. So it offered her £100 compensation to address the impact of that. It also offered 
her a further £25 as it had delayed responding to the matter.
Ms E remained unhappy and asked our service to look into her concerns. One of our 
investigators did so. He didn't think AXA had dealt with Ms E fairly. He said it should pay her 
a further £100 compensation on top of any payments already made. Ms E didn't think that 
went far enough, so her complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same as our 
investigators recommendation.
In bringing this complaint Ms Es made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address each issue raised. 
Instead I will focus on what I see as the key outstanding points following our investigators 
assessment of the complaint.
Its clear that the service from AXA and the garage hasn't been what Ms E could have 
expected. I can see that shes suffered from, amongst other things, delays, inconvenience 
and poor communication. AXA has, for the most part, taken steps to put things right by 
offering compensation, which is, I believe reasonable in the circumstances.
But I've noted that Ms E remains particularly upset that, when she spoke with the garage 
about the remedial work required in February 2021, it initially suggested that her car had a 
further knock, which Ms E insisted wasnt the case. It then told AXA that Ms E could have 
had a courtesy car at a later date if she'd wanted one. The garage implied she wasn't telling 
the truth. Ms E was very unhappy that AXA accepted the garages version of events and 
didn't uphold that part of her complaint. Ms E said that was a slur on her character.
As far as I'm aware there isn't a call recording of Ms Es phone conversation with the garage 
that could put to bed exactly what was said about the courtesy car. But Ms E is very clear 
and consistent that the garage bluntly told her that she couldn't have one at all. Whereas the 
garage have implied that it was Ms Es choice not to have a courtesy car  because she 
wanted the car fixing at the earliest opportunity  when one wasn't available. So AXA was 
faced with two opposing versions of events. And in such situations it needed to look at the 
evidence and decide which carried more weight. But it seems that AXA simply accepted at 
face value the garages account. 
It's clear from the file, and particularly from Ms Es first complaint about the garages delays 
in providing a courtesy car, that access to a car was important to her. The remedial work that 
the garage needed to do didn't mean her car wasn't roadworthy. So there was no reason for 
it to be done urgently. And in those circumstances I think that, if the garage had offered to 
repair Ms Es car on another date when a courtesy car was instantly available shed have 
accepted the alternative date. And I think AXA should have factored that in when it was 
looking at which version of events it preferred. I can understand why Ms E found AXAs 
decision to not uphold that part of her complaint upsetting. So I've thought about what is 
appropriate to put things right.
In a situation like this its simply not possible to turn back the clock. Ms Es feelings have 
been hurt, amongst other things, by what she sees as a slur on her character and nothing 
can undo that. Not every instance of a mistake error or omission by a business warrants 
compensation. But I think further compensation is deserved in this case. 
When deciding whether to award monetary compensation, and if so how much, I think about 
the impact a business actions have had on the consumer. I also think about how its affected 
their day-to-day lives and what sort of inconvenience its caused them. Having weighed up 
those factors I then consider awards we make in similar situations. It might also be helpful if I 
stress that our awards are to address the distress and inconvenience caused, they are not 
intended to act as a fine or punishment for the business concerned. 
In this case, having considered the matter carefully, I'm satisfied that further compensation 
of £100 is warranted. I'm aware Ms E doesn't think this is anything like enough, particularly 
because of what she sees as a slur on her character. I don't wish to downplay Ms Es sense 
of hurt. But I note AXA has already made awards for her distress and inconvenience of £125 
and I'm satisfied a further £100 is in line with awards we make in cases of similar 
seriousness. That sum brings the compensation for Ms Es second complaint to £225 in 
total. I'm satisfied that is a fair and reasonable resolution to her complaint.
For completeness Ill add that Ms E has recently told us that she still hasn't received the 
£125 compensation payment AXA offered when responding to her second complaint. So, 
unless it has already done so it should investigate that matter and either make the payment 
now or explain to Ms E when it was paid.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Ms E further compensation of £100.
Investigate whether or not it had paid Ms E the £125 it previously offered to her 
and either pay her that sum now or explain when it had paid it previously.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman