DRN-3049150
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HS) caused delays to her Stocks and 
Shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) transfer.
What happened
On 2 March 2020, HS logged Mrs Hs ISA transfer request. On the same day HS wrote to 
her current provider, who Ill refer to as B, requesting a valuation. On 11 March 2020 B 
wrote to HS providing details of Mrs Hs investments including a valuation. But HS says this 
letter wasnt received so it sent a chaser dated 18 March 2020. However, this letter didnt 
contain Mrs Hs details and the HS reference number was different from the one it sent in its 
previous letter. As B wasnt able to locate the account, it wrote to HS for further details.
On 10 April 2020 HS recorded receiving Bs letter. On the same day, it wrote to Mrs H saying 
that the transfer had been rejected by B and no further action would be taken. However, on 
27 April 2020 HS recorded receiving the valuation from B and restarted the transfer process 
which was completed on 1 June 2020.
Mrs H complained about the delays. HS said the delays werent something it had any control 
over. It noted the Covid-19 situation had impacted on its business timescales for transfers, 
which it normally aimed to do within six to eight weeks. HS also said that it could only action 
a transfer when it received a valuation from B, which it said was on 27 April 2020. Halifax 
said it took nine weeks to complete the transfer and it was satisfied this was reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Our investigator initially recommended HS pay Mrs H £100 for distress and inconvenience 
as she was satisfied that it had caused delays to the transfer process. Mrs H disagreed with 
the sum awarded. HS also disagreed and provided information to support its case. 
Our investigator reconsidered everything and recommended increasing the compensation to 
£200. She thought HS had contributed to the delays by not providing sufficient information to 
B in its letter dated 18 March 2020. She also thought it had provided incorrect information to 
Mrs H when it told her B had rejected the transfer when, in fact, this wasnt the case.
Mrs H accepted the recommendation. HS didnt respond. As no agreement could be 
reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I should note from the outset that Im not considering any compensation for financial loss as 
there hasnt been any due to the ISA transfer being done in-specie. In terms of the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs H by HSs actions, Im satisfied £200 fairly compensates 
her for its mistakes.
As our investigator has said, it took twelve weeks for the transfer to complete not the nine 
weeks HS claims. HS records show the request was logged on its systems on 2 March 
2020. The transfer was completed on 1 June 2020.
Whilst Ive taken into account the impact of the Covid-19 situation, I can see that delays 
were caused by HS when it provided the incorrect identifiable details to B in its letter dated 
18 March 2020. In turn, this caused avoidable delays to the transfer process. At this point, B 
had already provided HS with its valuation for Mrs Hs investments in a letter dated 
11 March 2020  this is something HS has said in its submissions it was relying on to 
process the transfer.
B has provided its letter dated 11 March 2020. This clearly sets out the valuation that HS 
had requested in its letter dated 2 March. I can see the letter to HS dated 11 March, is 
correctly addressed. The address details match those on Mrs Hs transfer form. HS hasnt 
said it had any difficulty in receiving letters at that time, so I think on balance, it was likely to 
have been received at the correct address. And for whatever reason, HS didnt record this 
information against Mrs Hs account until 27 April 2020.
HS sent a chaser on 18 March 2020 which it says was because it hadnt received any 
response from B to its letter from 2 March. But I can see the letter dated 18 March, didnt 
contain any account details or even Mrs Hs name. Mrs H had provided the account details 
in her ISA transfer form. So, even if I were to accept that HS didnt receive the letter from B 
dated 11 March with the valuation of Mrs Hs investments, I think the way it (HS) responded 
to this led to delays with the transfer process overall.
I think HSs mistakes caused at least four weeks delays to the transfer process. As I say I 
appreciate the Covid-19 situation did cause disruption to businesses at that time but from 
what I can see, when HS sent the chaser dated 18 March 2020, it couldve provided correct 
identifying details. B had been able to use details contained in HSs letter from 2 March to 
identify Mrs Hs account. So, it follows if HS had provided these same details in its chaser of 
18 March, this would have avoided B having to go back to HS for more information.
Ive also taken into account HSs communication with Mrs H during the transfer process. In 
particular, its letter dated 10 April 2020 was sent to Mrs H on the same day HS received a 
request from B asking for more information. So, I dont think the transfer had been rejected 
as HS told Mrs H. Therefore, I think the information provided to Mrs H by HS was unclear, 
unfair and misleading. This resulted in Mrs H having to liaise with both businesses to try to 
get the transfer back on track.
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint. Taking everything into account, I think 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs H fairly and reasonably compensates 
her for HSs mistakes.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and I order Halifax Share Dealing Limited to pay Mrs H £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman