DRN-2710368
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly closed its 
business current account. This meant E couldnt receive a Bounce Back Loan.
 
Es director, Ms T, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
E held a business current account with HSBC. The bank decided to close the account on 
14 May 2020. A short while later, on 26 May, Ms T contacted HSBC about a lost card. 
During this call, HSBCs representative confirmed Es account had been closed  something 
Ms T said she was unaware of and unhappy about, so she complained.
 
In summary, Ms T felt HSBCs decision to close Es account was unfair. She explained that 
shed received two letters from HSBC  on 14 February and 17 March  about the account, 
but nothing informing her that Es account had, in fact, been closed. Ms T also explained 
shed received the 17 March letter late because it had been with her accountants before 
being sent on to her.
 
Further, Ms T said shed recently applied for a Bounce Back Loan for E  and was now 
concerned that because Es business current account had been closed, it wouldnt able to 
receive the loan. So, she asked HSBC to reinstate Es business current account. Ms E 
explained that her business had faced a tough time financially, that the Covid-19 pandemic 
had made things very difficult and that she felt let down by HSBCs actions given the 
circumstances.
  
In its final response, HSBC said Es account had been closed in line with its usual policy. 
And it referred to the two letters it had sent E in February and March, which were about Es 
unarranged overdraft. It said these letters had explained Es account would close if the debt 
wasnt settled. HSBC also highlighted a phone call Ms T had held with its collections 
department on 2 March. It said its representative had tried to rectify the outstanding balance 
issue during the call, but Ms T hadnt wanted to discuss it at the time. Instead, Ms T had 
promised to call back the next day  but she hadnt done so. HSBC also confirmed Es 
Bounce Back Loan application had been withdrawn due to the account closure.
 
Ms T remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to our service. An investigator here 
considered what had happened, but he didnt think HSBC had acted unreasonably. He said 
HSBC had been entitled to close the account, which he didnt think was unreasonable given 
that Es account had been in an unarranged overdraft for some time and as the bank had 
warned of the consequences if the account wasnt brought back in order. As E no longer 
held a business current account with HSBC, he didnt think it was unreasonable for the bank 
to have stopped the Bounce Back Loan application.
 
In response, Ms T still felt the decision to close Es account was unfair. But, even putting that 
aside, she thought HSBC couldve opened a feeder account for E so its Bounce Back Loan 
application couldve proceeded  and believed it had declined to do so because shed raised 
a complaint. Ms T asked that an ombudsman review the matter, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In support of Es complaint, Ms T has made several points  and its clear she feels very 
strongly about what happened. Ive summarised the complaint in far less detail, and I havent 
commented on everything Ms T has raised. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Rather, it 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
 
The closure of Es business current account
A bank can make its own decisions about who its prepared to offer banking services to. And 
its important for me to explain here that this service wont generally intervene in a banks 
commercial discretion. Sometimes, a bank will choose to end its relationship with a 
customer. Wed expect it to comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement when 
doing so. Under the terms and conditions of Es business current account, HSBC could end 
the agreement immediately if the terms were broken persistently. Of reference here, the 
terms required E to operate the account within agreed limits.  
Es account was overdrawn for quite some time when HSBC decided to close it. HSBC has 
provided copies of several letters it sent E about the matter. These letters, addressed to 
Ms T, explained Es account was in an unarranged overdraft  so payment needed to be 
made. Ive seen letters were sent in August, September and October 2019. Additionally, 
HSBC also sent text messages. 
With Es account still overdrawn, HSBC sent further letters on 14 February and 
17 March 2020, the first explaining that Es account may be closed unless repayment was 
made  and the latter that Es account would be closed unless repayment was made within 
14 days. So, I think HSBC took reasonable steps to make E aware of both the unauthorised 
overdraft position of the account and what would happen if this wasnt cleared. Ms T has 
said she received HSBCs 17 March letter late because it was with her accountants  but 
shes not disputed receiving the letter in February. And I think that ought to have prompted 
Ms T to rectify the situation, if she wanted Es account to remain open. 
Ive also noted Ms T had phoned HSBC on 2 March  between the banks final two letters 
but Es overdrawn balance wasnt the reason for her call. Having listened to a recording of 
the call, Ive noted that  after some discussion about an unrecognised transaction  the 
adviser tried to speak with Ms T about clearing the debt. They stressed the importance of 
having the conversation, but Ms T said she didnt have time to discuss it and would call back 
the next day instead. Theres no record of her doing so. Rather, the next contact Ms T made 
with HSBC was on 26 May when she called to report a lost card.
To sum up, I think HSBC provided sufficient notice of Es unarranged overdraft and the 
potential consequences of not taking action. And given that E didnt take any action to clear 
the overdrawn balance, I can see why the bank considered that E had persistently broken 
the terms of the agreement. So, it follows that I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in 
closing Es account.
Es Bounce Back Loan applicationHSBC required a business relationship to be in place before it would accept an application 
and provide a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. It was entitled to do so under the 
rules of the Scheme.
 
E applied for a Bounce Back Loan on 23 May, shortly after its account had been closed. So, 
I dont think it was unreasonable of the bank not to proceed with Es Bounce Back Loan 
application at the time. Ms T has said HSBC told her that Es application had been accepted, 
but Ive not seen that HSBC said E had been approved for a loan and the funds would be 
forthcoming. In any event, I think the position was clarified reasonably quickly and dont think 
this really impacted Es position.
Even accepting the situation with Es business current account, Ms T has said she thinks 
HSBC shouldve opened a feeder account so E could then benefit from a Bounce Back 
Loan. But its important to remember that, while the sole purpose of the feeder account was 
to draw down the Bounce Back Loan, it was still a separate product subject to different rules 
and requirements. That means E wouldve had to apply and meet HSBCs criteria for 
opening a feeder account, before reapplying for a Bounce Back Loan.
 
Having listened to the call from 26 May  during which Ms T raised Es complaint  Im 
aware a feeder account was discussed. But Ive no reason to think HSBC wouldnt then have 
allowed E to apply for a feeder account because of the complaint Ms T had made on its 
behalf. Instead, it simply seems to be the case that no application was made  which isnt 
something I can fairly hold HSBC responsible for. I appreciate Ms T may have been waiting 
for the outcome of Es complaint before taking further action. But, once shed received its 
final response, she was free to apply elsewhere. The Scheme was still open and other 
lenders were accepting applications from new customers. So, with that in mind, I dont think 
HSBCs actions left E unable to access the Scheme.
 
Taking everything into account, I understand Ms T has been left disappointed by HSBCs 
actions. But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman