DRN-3167495
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy which started in 1993.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G paid a monthly amount for the policy. Santander has told us that the benefit 
level is unknown but that a successful claim would, most likely, have paid out for up to 36 
months at a time if Mr or Mrs G were unable to work through accident or sickness, and for up 
to 12 months in the event that Mr or Mrs G were made redundant. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken them into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs G say they were told they had to have the cover to get the mortgage. Mr and 
Mrs G have provided no evidence to support that testimony. Santander has said that Mr and 
Mrs G were not told they had to have the cover, but that they should have the cover because 
of the mortgage. But Santander hasnt been able to provide the point of sale documentation 
that Mr and Mrs G signed. Its maybe not surprising that neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs G 
have any documentation from the sale, considering that it happened approximately 29 years 
ago. Businesses are not obliged to keep their documentation indefinitely. But I have seen 
sample documentation for the cover that Santander says would have been used at the time. 
The application for the cover was a separate application to the application for the mortgage. 
That may have suggested that the mortgage was separate to, and not dependent upon, the 
application for the cover. But that would depend on how that was positioned with Mr and Mrs 
G by Santanders representative. 
Where there is limited information, Ill make my decision based on what I think more likely 
happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types of sale. I must also give some thought to the way the 
passage of time can affect the accuracy of recall from events that happened over 29 years 
ago. So, having considered all the submissions I have received in this case and considering 
how long ago the sale was, I think its more likely that Santander wouldve made Mr and Mrs 
G aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it, even though they may not 
remember that now, many years later. 
 
Santander recommended that Mr and Mrs G take the PPI, so it had to check if it was right for 
them. From what I have seen of the policy and what Mr and Mrs G have told us about their 
circumstances at the time of the sale, I think it was. I explain below why I say this.
Mr and Mrs G were eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the policy 
wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Mr and Mrs G at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions or non-standard 
employment terms. 
And I think Mr and Mrs G could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Mr 
and Mrs G told us they had good sick pay benefits, the policy could have paid in addition to 
their company sick pay and for longer than their employers would have paid them at their full 
rate of pay, most likely. And Mr and Mrs G told us they had no other means to rely on if 
something went wrong, no savings and no other insurances that would have helped in the 
event of long term ill health or if they lost their jobs. So, considering all of this, and the 
potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on a home, I think Mr and 
Mrs G couldve found the policy useful. And the policy appears to have been affordable. 
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
G.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs G, Santander also had to give them 
clear enough information about the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was 
suitable for them, I dont think better information wouldve stopped them from buying it. 
So, I do not think that Santander has to do anything to put things right.
So, I dont think that Mr and Mrs G lost out as a result of anything Santander might have 
done wrong. This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander didnt need to disclose the commission it received, 
so Santander doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs G paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to certain types of credit taken out and still running at certain times. 
From the information that has been submitted in this case those dates do not apply to the 
date this credit was taken out and held until, so it falls outside of the scope for our consideration. So, I dont think Santander has to refund any of the commission paid on the 
PPI policy.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman