DRN-3564602
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the service received from IG Markets Limited (IG). He says 
there is a credit balance on his ISA account that IG has refused to allow him access to. He 
says he would like this balance paid to him along with compensation for his wasted time, 
inconvenience and cost of him dealing with the complaint.  
What happened
Mr D held a stocks and shares ISA account with IG. In August 2020 he arranged with IG to 
transfer the balance of this account to another broker. Mr D kept the account open so that 
any payment that arose from his sold assets could be paid into it. 
Mr D said there had been differing balances on his account. He said at one point the account 
balance showed at around £36. He said this balance then disappeared and a zero balance 
was displayed. Mr D wanted the balance of around £36 to be paid to him. He said he cannot 
do this online as the balance has been showing as zero. He said it has taken up his time and 
inconvenience in trying to get this paid to him and would like compensation for this as well.  
IG said in response that the balance on Mr Ds account was around £9 and Mr D could 
access this amount if he wanted to. It said if he had any problems doing this then he should 
contact them about it.
Mr D was not happy with IGs response and referred his complaint to our service.  
An investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint. She requested previous statements of Mr Ds 
account from IG and looked into the history of transactions on the ISA account from the date 
Mr D arranged for the transfer of the balance to another broker, onwards. The investigator 
could see the amount of £36 on Mr Ds account and asked IG about this. IG explained that 
£36 related to an asset that Mr D held but this was sold in August 2021. The shares relating 
to this were worthless as the company went into administration in 2019. So, the asset from 
this point onwards was worthless and this was reflected on Mr Ds account and on his 
statements. 
The investigator then saw that around £9 was transferred to Mr Ds account on 24 February 
2022 and this related to a dividend payment by another company. 
The investigator explained her findings in a view sent to both parties on 10 June 2022. Mr D 
was not happy with this and said the dividend payment for around £9 was not visible on his 
account. He said the amount of around £36 was displayed and then wasnt and the payment 
of around £9 was not visible. He reiterated that the service should uphold his complaint and 
should award him a payment of around £36 plus his costs and damages.
Recently, on 31 August 2022, IG said it had transferred the remaining balance of Mr Ds 
account of around £9 to him.
Mr D is not in agreement with the investigators view. So as this is the case his complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has said a balance of around £36 was visible on his Stocks and Shares ISA account 
that he held with IG, and then it disappeared and instead the balance was zero. He has 
recently provided a screenshot of his account showing a zero balance. Mr D said he would 
like this amount back from IG and it is owed to him. But I dont think Mr D is owed £36 by IG.
Mr D held 600 shares in a company that went into administration in 2019. These shares 
were showing on Mr Ds ISA account as an asset with a value of around £36. On statements 
provided to Mr D and online this would have been displayed and it is this that Mr D would 
have seen. Mr D would have been unable to withdraw this amount, as it was not cash. 
In August 2021, IG took the measure of selling these shares as the real value of them was 
nothing. This was because the company had gone into administration. So, when it did this, 
Mr Ds worthless asset was removed from his account and his zero-balance remained. 
So, having seen this, I can conclude that Mr D did not have around £36 and so could not 
withdraw it for the reasons I have given. And because of this, IG do not owe him this money 
either. I have looked at the statements that were produced by IG and sent to Mr D and this 
was all laid out within them.
On 24 February 2022, Mr Ds account was credited with a dividend payment from shares 
that he held. These shares have been subsequently sold and the proceeds transferred out of 
the account. This dividend payment was for around £9. So, from this date onwards his ISA 
account had this amount as the cash balance. 
IG has said Mr D was able to obtain this amount. Mr D maintains he cannot and has 
provided a screenshot of his account with a zero balance. I have seen this screenshot of an 
account with a zero balance but have not been able to also see other details such as the 
account details or Mr Ds name on it. IG has said all along in this complaint that Mr D has 
been able to access this money and if he had any problems to contact it. I have not been 
aware of any issues with what IG has said here. 
On 31 August 2022, after a request from the investigator, IG said it had paid the balance on 
Mr Ds account to him. 
In conclusion, after looking through all of the statements provided on Mr Ds ISA account, I 
cant see that IG has done anything wrong here. It has provided an explanation for the 
balance of around £36 that appeared on Mr Ds account. And it has explained why then this 
amount was removed and Mr Ds balance was then zero. It has then explained why Mr Ds 
account showed a balance of around £9. I can see why Mr D was unable to obtain the 
amount of around £36, as it wasnt a cash balance. And I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr D was unable to obtain the balance of around £9 when it was available on his 
account. 
So, for the reasons I have given, I dont think it would be fair to ask IG to compensate Mr D 
as I dont think it was responsible for any failings here. I dont think it would be fair to ask IG 
to pay Mr D for his inconvenience or any costs relating to this complaint either, as it is not 
responsible for any wrongdoing. And it has paid Mr D the balance on his account.  I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr D and I acknowledge the strength 
of his feelings in the submissions he has provided. But based on everything I have read and 
the findings I have given, I dont uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman