DRN-1565740
The complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W had an open-ended credit facility with Sunny. The facility was opened with a credit limit 
of £500 in May 2014. Mr W was able to make drawdowns from this facility, up to the credit 
limit and then repay them in a maximum of five instalments.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought it should be partially upheld. The 
adjudicator didn't think Sunny was wrong to have allowed Mr W to open the account. But 
they did think Sunny shouldn't have allowed Mr W to make his last two drawdowns, as he 
hadn't been making clear progress in repaying his debt.
Sunny accepted this but said that Mr W wouldn't be due a refund, as he hadn't paid any 
interest and charges towards these last two drawdowns. Mr W said he wasn't happy with the 
offer as he'd been paying money to a third party and that Sunny should therefore pay him or 
the third party something to reduce his debt.
I also note that when Sunny originally answered this complaint, it offered to write off any 
outstanding balances (if still outstanding) sold to the third party and to amend Mr W's credit 
file. Depending on the amount still outstanding, this seems likely to me to have broadly the 
same effect as the outcome proposed by the adjudicator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
I don't think there's really still an ongoing dispute about the fairness of the initial lending.
Mr W hasn't raised any further points in this respect, nor has he commented on the 
adjudicator's main findings about upholding the complaint in respect of the last two 
drawdowns he made. For the avoidance of doubt, I think the outcome reached by the 
adjudicator was fair and I agree with the overall outcome and the reasons given.
This just leaves the matter of fair redress. Mr W's last two drawdowns were for £89.06 and 
£88.58. This is a total principal amount of £177.64. Sunny says Mr W didn't pay anything 
towards these amounts, either towards the principal or the interest. If that's correct then, as 
Sunny has said, no refund is due to Mr W.
From the evidence I've seen, I think what Sunny has said is likely to be correct. It has shown 
us how it calculated the redress in respect of the two drawdowns above and the approach 
taken is in line with the approach taken by this service.
Sunny has also provided figures for the overall amount Mr W borrowed and repaid towards 
his account. It says the sum of all of Mr W's drawdowns is £1,768.43 and that the sum of all his repayments is £1,948.24. So Mr W has repaid £179.81 in interest and charges (at the 
time this information was provided).
But it's important to remember that this service has found the first seven drawdowns, which 
total £1,590.79, were agreed responsibly. And so Sunny can therefore fairly charge the 
interest on those drawdowns. I doubt that the £179.81 paid by Mr W represents the total 
interest and charges Sunny fairly applied to the first seven drawdowns.
I therefore think Sunny has fairly calculated that it does not owe a refund to Mr W.
I've also looked at what Sunny said in its final response letter. It has said the outstanding 
debt was sold to a third party. So strictly speaking, Sunny doesn't have the right to offset any 
refund against the outstanding debt (unless it buys it back). But in this case, as Mr W 
effectively hasn't paid any interest and charges towards the last two drawdowns, there's no 
refund to make anyway. So there's no point in asking Sunny to buy back to debt to 
achieve the same result as it has proposed.
Finally, it seems Sunny has actually asked the third party to write off the outstanding 
balance. So it seems Mr W may in fact be better off, as a result of this, than he would be if 
Sunny strictly followed the outcome proposed by the adjudicator. This is because Mr M won't 
now have to repay the parts of that write off which likely included unpaid principal or interest 
due for the first seven drawdowns.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think Sunny's offer is fair. From what I've seen, it's already 
implemented the offer. But if it hasn't, it should now do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman