DRN-3436245
The complaint
Mrs T complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund £6,868.50 she says she lost as part of a 
scam.
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mrs T believed she was 
purchasing a glamping hut from a merchant which Ill refer to as P. In July 2018 she made 
an online payment of £6,868.50 (a 50% deposit) from her account with TSB Bank. She was 
expecting the glamping hut to arrive in October 2018. Mrs T says when it didnt arrive, she 
notified TSB Bank that she believed shed been the victim of a scam.  
Ultimately, TSB Bank said it could not provide a refund as Mrs T had authorised the 
payment; it had been correctly processed to the intended beneficiary; and its attempt to 
recover the money from the beneficiary bank had been unsuccessful.
One of our Investigators initially said Mrs Ts complaint had been brought to our service too 
late. Mrs T didnt agree. The complaint was passed to me for a decision. I wrote to 
TSB Bank explaining that some aspects of Mrs Ts complaint could not have been 
addressed in its final response letter as the events took place sometime after the issuance of 
its letter. TSB Bank agreed. It also gave our service consent to consider the points covered 
in its final response. Our Investigator considered Mrs Ts complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
He didnt consider Mrs T to have been the victim of a scam nor did he think that there had 
been any errors where it can fairly be concluded that TSB Bank should provide Mrs T with a 
full refund of her loss.
Mrs T sought clarification on several points and asked that the matter be escalated. So the 
case was passed back to me for a final decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs T and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. Id like to assure her Ive taken into 
account all the submissions and points she has raised, but my findings focus on what I think 
is relevant and at the heart of this complaint  that being, Mrs Ts claim that TSB Bank failed 
to prevent her loss and protect her from fraud.
I appreciate Mrs T feels strongly that TSB Bank should refund her loss and feels its unfair 
that the bank is unwilling to do so. I want to start by being clear that in these circumstances I 
could only direct TSB Bank to reimburse Mrs Ts loss if Im satisfied it reasonably failed to 
prevent that loss or did something wrong where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund. I 
cant fairly direct TSB Bank to provide a refund on the basis that Mrs T has suggested it 
ought to. That being that she acted in good faith when making the payment; has been the 
victim of a scam; is a longstanding customer of the bank; and/or because other banks have 
chosen to refund their customers under similar conditions.
Firstly, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, alongside TSB Banks own terms and 
conditions, indicate that it should execute authorised payment instructions from its 
customers without undue delay. And as a starting point there is a presumption that liability 
for authorised payments sits with the payer, even where it has been argued that the 
payments have been made as part of a scam. But it is also understood that banks, such as 
TSB Bank have duties to protect their customers against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud. But when simply executing authorised payments they do not have to protect 
customers against the risk of bad bargains. So, the first question to resolve is whether P 
were operating fraudulently.
I can see Mrs T has made detailed submissions in support of her belief that P were 
operating fraudulently and that she has been the victim of a scam. This includes but isnt 
limited to correspondence from: The Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service (COPFS); 
Trading Standards; Ps liquidators; and the firm which acquired P. Ive carefully considered 
everything Mrs T has provided but I agree with our Investigator, based on the information 
available its difficult to say with any confidence or certainty that P were operating 
fraudulently. In order for me to say TSB Bank had an obligation to intervene in the payment 
Mrs T made to P, I need to be satisfied that she has really fallen victim to a scam and that 
the seller was acting with the intent to defraud her at the point the payment was made. As 
Ive not seen any evidence that persuades me that P had no intention (when taking the 
payment) of fulfilling Mrs Ts order I dont think it can reasonably be said she has been 
scammed.   
But even if I am wrong about this, I still dont think TSB Bank could have prevented Mrs Ts 
loss. I say this because at the time Mrs T made the payment, she didnt know, nor do I think 
she reasonably could have learned about the problems shed later have with P. So, even if I 
were to conclude the payment was sufficiently out of character that TSB Bank ought to have 
intervened and questioned it, it seems unlikely that Mrs T would have decided to not go 
ahead with her payment. At the material time P was a legitimate registered company and 
from what I can see there was no adverse information about them. So, even if TSB Bank 
had provided general warnings or information about common scams during the payment 
journey (which is all I could expect of it in such circumstances), I dont think this would have 
made a difference. I note Mrs T has told our service, had TSB Bank intervened and provided 
her with warnings she would have paid using her mothers credit card. It is understandable 
now with the benefit of hindsight for Mrs T to say these are the steps she wouldve taken. 
But Ive carefully considered the point she makes and Im not persuaded this is the action 
she would have taken at the time as she was under tight time constraints to benefit from the 
50% discount offer and had no reason to suspect anything untoward.
Mrs T and TSB Bank have a different view on when the alleged scam was reported and the 
handling of the claim. But I do not consider it necessary to make a finding in relation to all 
the specific points that have been raised in relation to this matter. Because even if I accept 
everything Mrs T says I still dont think it would have resulted in more of her money being 
recovered. I say this for the following reasons:- Mrs T made the payment by online transfer. So the only method of recovery available 
to her would have been for TSB Bank to notify the recipient bank of the alleged scam 
and ask that it returns any funds that remain. This step is taken by a payers bank on 
a best endeavours basis. 
- Upon receipt of notification of fraud, a receiving bank would need to carry out its own 
investigations. But even where any sum remained there is no guarantee this would 
be returned. Here, ultimately, I can see that TSB Bank did notify the recipient bank of 
Mrs Ts claim. And it confirmed that no funds remain to be returned.    
- Ive also considered Mrs Ts argument that TSB Bank ought to have acted sooner 
than it did in trying to recover her funds from the recipient bank. But, in all likelihood, 
given the payment was made in July 2018 and the problems with P didnt come to 
light until several months later, in October 2018. Even at the earliest point that 
TSB Bank could have taken action I think its unlikely any funds would have remained 
available for recovery. And even if there were any funds remaining (which to be clear 
Im not persuaded there would have been) given my earlier conclusion that it is 
difficult to conclude that P were operating fraudulently, on balance I think its more 
likely that the receiving bank would have deemed this to be a civil matter. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs T, and I dont underestimate the 
impact this matter has had on her. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained, I wont be 
asking TSB Bank to refund the money Mrs T paid to P.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman