DRN-3082027
The complaint
Mr S complains that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) avoided his car insurance policy and refused 
to pay his claim following an accident.
What happened
Mr S took out car insurance with QIC through a broker. The car was purchased for Mr S by 
his friend through his company as Mr S had been unable to get the necessary credit. His 
friends company bought the car under a hire purchase agreement and then arranged a 
separate lease agreement with Mr S. Mr S made monthly payments to his friends company 
for the lease of the car. 
Mr S was involved in an accident on 9 October 2019. He informed QIC and made a claim on 
his policy. The car was deemed to be a total loss and QIC asked for a copy of the V5C 
registration document. This showed that the registered keeper was Mr Ss friends company.
In his application for insurance, Mr S said that he was the registered keeper and owner of 
the car. QIC said that Mr S answered these questions incorrectly. They considered this to be 
a misrepresentation, which entitled them to avoid the policy and not consider Mr Ss claim. 
They said that Mr S had no financial interest in the car, and it was not his to insure. They 
said the car should have been insured by the registered keeper and that the finance 
agreement did not allow the car to be leased to Mr S. They also referred to Mr Ss policy 
which says that they will only insure him if the information he provides to them in his 
application is correct and complete. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us as he did not think he had been treated fairly. He said that 
he had answered all the questions asked of him correctly as he thought the car was his. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said 
that there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and agreed it was deliberate or reckless 
and that QIC were entitled to avoid the policy and retain the premiums Mr S had paid. Mr S 
did not agree and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application that he was the owner of the car and the registered keeper. The test 
of reasonable care is that of the reasonable consumer, so I need to consider what a 
reasonable consumer would have done in the circumstances.
 
Mr S says as far as he was aware he had provided accurate information as he thought he 
was the keeper of the car as he was the main driver and the car was kept at his address. 
However, this doesnt make Mr S the registered keeper. The registered keeper is the person 
or company shown as such on the V5C document. I have seen the V5C document and this 
clearly shows that Mr Ss friend company is the registered keeper. Mr S says he hadnt seen 
this document when he applied for his insurance, but this is an important legal document and 
I think it would have been reasonable for him to check this before applying for insurance. 
Mr S said that he viewed the car as his as it was bought for him and he was making monthly 
repayments to his friends company. However, the car was not owned by Mr S. The owner is 
the person who buys the car and it was purchased under a hire purchase agreement to 
which Mr S was not a party and so could not be described as the owner. 
Notwithstanding a term of the hire purchase agreement that prevents the sub-lease of the 
car, Mr S then leased the car from his friends company, and he was a party to this 
agreement. The lease agreement does not say it transfers ownership to Mr S. I note in the 
lease agreement, that Mr S is referred to as the Hirer and his friends company as the 
Owner. The car is said to be owned by his friends company subject to the finance 
agreement, and although Mr S is required to insure it, he must also ensure that the Owner 
is named as a registered owner. Whilst its not entirely clear what a registered owner is, I 
think its clear in the agreement that Mr S is not the owner. I therefore think it would have 
been reasonable for Mr S to have known that he was not the legal owner of the car  even if 
he wasnt aware that the car was actually owned by the finance company.
I therefore dont think that Mr S took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he said he was the owner and the registered keeper of the car. 
I now need to go on to consider whether Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation, namely whether it would have made a difference to what QIC would have 
done had it know the correct information.
Ive looked at the underwriting criteria used by QIC. They say that they wouldnt have offered 
Mr S cover as the registered keeper/owner was Mr Ss friend and this is not a category of 
ownership that they would cover. However, the registered keeper is not Mr Ss friend but his 
company, and the owner is the finance company. As such, I think the car could have been 
covered under QICs underwriting criteria but on different terms, i.e. for a higher premium.
 
QIC also say that as Mr S had no financial interest in the car, they would not have insured 
him. There is nothing to prevent someone insuring a car they dont own. However, as Mr S 
said he was the registered keeper and owner, QIC were not alerted to the fact that Mr S had 
no financial interest in the car and that other parties did. Im therefore satisfied on the basis 
of the underwriting criteria and what QIC say, that Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one.
I therefore need to consider whether the misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless or 
careless. A qualifying misrepresentation will be deliberate or reckless if the consumer knew 
or did not care whether the information provided was true or misleading. From what Mr S has said, I dont think that he deliberately tried to mislead his insurer, but I do think that he 
was reckless. As stated above, I think that he should have known that the information he 
provided was incorrect. In particular, I think that the car leasing agreement between Mr S 
and his friends company made it clear that Mr S was not the owner or the registered keeper 
of the car. I appreciate that English was not Mr Ss first language but if there was anything 
that he was unsure of, he could have asked either his broker or insurer for clarification, or 
indeed his friends company. 
As Im satisfied that Mr Ss misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate/reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions QIC can take in accordance with CIDRA. Im satisfied QIC was entitled 
to avoid Mr Ss policy in accordance with CIDRA. As this means that  in effect  his policy 
never existed, QIC does not have to deal with his claim following the accident or return his 
premium.
 
I know that this is not the outcome that Mr S was hoping for, but as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing QIC to rely on it to avoid 
Mr Ss policy produces a fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman