DRN-1574781
 
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr Ms father as he has a Lasting Power of Attorney 
over Mr Ms affairs. Any reference to Mr M in this decision should be taken to mean the 
mortgage-holder, and Ill refer to his father as Mr M1.
Mr M1 says that an appointed representative of First Complete Ltd mis-sold this mortgage to 
Mr M in 2015 because it wasnt affordable. Any reference to First Complete in this decision 
should be taken to mean the individual broker firm where appropriate.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Suffice to say Ive read and 
understood everything Mr M1 has told us about his son and his circumstances.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr M but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Mr M1 has said his son was vulnerable, but First Complete had no way of knowing that. 
From the information weve been provided with it seems Mr M didnt receive his mental 
health disorder diagnosis until two years after the mortgage was taken out, and Mr M1 didnt 
register a Lasting Power of Attorney until about three years after the mortgage was taken 
out.
First Complete asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure and then it 
obtained proof of that in line with the chosen lenders lending criteria. First Complete would 
have no reason to believe the information Mr M provided was false if the proof he supplied 
supported what hed said.
Mr M provided a copy of his contract (which had been running for about 18 months) and 
there were payments into his bank account from the company he was contracting for that 
were broadly in line with what youd expect to see based on the contract. The fact the 
payments in were round figures wouldnt ring alarm bells, as whilst Mr M1 has never 
received - or paid - a round figure monthly salary that doesnt mean no-one does. 
Unless Mr M1 is saying his son and the company he was contracting for were involved in a 
serious fraudulent incident, such that the company was paying Mr M for work he hadnt done 
then the evidence suggests Mr M was contracting for the company in question and getting 
paid for doing so in line with the contract provided. 
At the time of the sale Mr M had a loan, a credit card and used his overdraft. The total debt 
wasnt significant in relation to his declared (and proven) income. All his credit commitments 
were up to date with no recent missed payments. These were all shown in the credit check 
completed by the lender, so the lending decision was based on the correct information.
Mr M1 has said the reason given for the remortgage was wrong as he had already bought 
out his other sons share of the property, so Mr M didnt need to borrow further funds for that. 
The mortgage that was being paid off was held jointly by Mr M and his brother. The new 
mortgage was taken out just by Mr M. So that gives support to what Mr M said he needed to 
remortgage for, in that he was raising funds to buy his brother out.
The amount being borrowed wouldnt cause any concerns as First Complete wouldnt have 
known whether Mr M had savings he was using to top-up the pay-off to his brother, or what 
the agreement was between them. The property could have been owned 75/25 in Mr Ms 
favour, or there could have been an informal agreement between Mr M and his brother that 
Mr M would pay a much lower sum to buy his brother out. Or, it could have been that Mr M 
put in a much larger deposit upfront. 
Im not saying any of these were the case, Im just explaining that there are so many reasons 
why Mr M may have been borrowing less than 50% of the property value that it wouldnt 
have raised any concerns with First Complete. It had no responsibility to delve into Mr Ms 
personal agreement with his brother as that simply wasnt its concern.
Mr M1 says First Complete shouldnt just rely on testimony as in an age of fraud this is 
asking for trouble. But there must be an element of trust in any lending application like this. 
First Complete would have no reason to believe Mr M wasnt being truthful about his 
circumstances (which I understand is a symptom of his disorder) as the evidence Mr M 
supplied supported what hed said. 
He supplied a valid contract that had been running for over a year, and his bank statements 
showed credits (that broadly matched what youd expect to see at the contracted rate) from 
the company he was contracting for. And he was changing from a joint mortgage to one in 
his sole name which supported his statement that he was raising funds to buy his brother out 
of the property.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied First Complete acted appropriately when it 
advised Mr M about this mortgage as all the evidence Mr M provided supported the 
information he declared.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman