DRN-3422636
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F purchased fractional points from a timeshare operator I will call C. in June 
2013.  The total cost was £8,000, which was paid for by way of a loan from BPF. The loan 
was paid off in March 2014. The loan was in Mrs Fs name and so for simplicity I will refer to 
her as the purchaser in this decision.
In March 2021, Mrs F, using a professional representative (T), made a claim against BPF 
under s.75 and s.140A CCA for problems she said she had had with the timeshare. In 
summary, she said:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to her.
She was told that purchasing the fractional points was the only way to exit her 
existing timeshare. This was incorrect.
She was advised she could exit the fractional points membership in a finite number of 
years, but this only applies if a buyer can be found.
There was a breach of contract. She says the contract states she will receive the net 
proceeds of the sale of the property, but nothing in the documentation confirms she 
has any ownership of the property. 
The management agreement wording indicates that her interest will continue for 
another 15 years or more and she has no control over the management costs.
T argues that the relationship is unfair 
BPF rejected the claim on the basis that it was made out of time. T brought the complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. T argued that s 32 Limitation Act allowed for an extension of the time limit in cases 
of fraud. It said that there had been deliberate and gross misrepresentation. It said Mrs F 
only realised she had been mis-sold the timeshare in 2019. 
Our investigator thought that the claim Mrs F made for misrepresentation under s.75 CCA 
and the claim under s.140A CCA had been made too late under the provisions in the LA. He 
also thought claim under s.75 CCA for a breach of contract by the timeshare supplier had 
been made in time, however he did not think there was evidence to suggest there had been 
a breach of contract. F disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I decide complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice.
I must also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. So although I have read everything that has been said and provided, I may not 
address every point that has been raised.
The misrepresentation claim under s.75 CCA
Mrs F says that C misrepresented a number of points in relation to the timeshare agreement 
she purchased. So, she argued BPF is jointly liable for these misrepresentations under 
section 75 of the CCA. But if BPF could show the section 75 claim was brought outside of 
the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to 
answering the claim. I should make it clear, however, that Im not deciding if any right Mrs F 
may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In 
this decision Im considering if BPF acted fairly and reasonably in seeking to turn down Mrs 
Fs claims on this basis.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1980 (MA). It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 
(Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded on tort for 
the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (section 2 of the LA).
Here, Mrs F brought a like claim against BPF under section 75 of the CCA. The limitation 
period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim. As noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and 
Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to 
the supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited her liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
Therefore, the limitation period for the section 75 claim expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mrs Fs case, thats when she could have brought a 
claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against BPF. I think that 
was the date she entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in June 2013. It was 
at that time that she entered into an agreement based, she says, on the misrepresentations 
of C She claims that she wouldnt have entered into the timeshare agreement if those 
misrepresentations hadnt been made. And it was on that day that she suffered a loss, as 
she took out the loan agreement with BPF.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in June 2013, so Mrs F had six years from that date to bring a claim. But she didnt try to contact BPF about her claim until 
February, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I think BPF acted fairly 
in seeking to turn down Mrs Fs misrepresentation claim on this basis.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA, Mrs F had to make her claim within six years of when the loan ended  which was in 
March 2014. But as the claim was made in March 2021, it was made outside of the time limit 
that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Having 
considered the facts of this complaint, I do not think the lime limits set out above could be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
I think Mrs Fs claims made under the CCA have been made too late and outside of the 
limitation periods. That finding is not to be confused with the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) that set out when the Financial Ombudsman 
Service can consider complaints about the activities of firms the FCA regulates.
Mrs F made claims under the CCA. Such claims are first made to the responsible business 
and, if the business does not accept them, a consumer has several options. They could refer 
their claim to a court and ask a judge to determine it, or, as has happened in this case, they 
could ask our service to consider a complaint about the business decision to turn down their 
claim.
DISP says that a consumer has six years in which to complain about an event or, if longer, 
three years after they realised or ought reasonable to have realised that they had a reason 
to complain. Those rules apply to complaints about regulated financial activities, which in the 
current context, is the way in which BPF exercised its rights and duties under a regulated 
agreement when it assessed the CCA claims.
The claim was dealt with less than six years before the complaint was referred to our 
service. Further, while there was more than six years between the sale and the claim, I 
cannot see anything that would have triggered Mrs F to realise she had a possible reason to 
complain about the things she did before she spoke with F. However, Mrs F made legal 
claims to BPF and, when it considered those claims, it relied on defences available under 
the LA. So that is why I have considered that legislation.
Unfair Relationship
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the lime limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
T argues that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider exists as the loan from BPF 
had been used to fund the timeshare purchase. I am satisfied s.9 LA applies to this claim, 
not s.8 LA, as Mrs F is making a claim for sums recoverable by statute
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mrs F 
repaid the loan in full, the agreement between her and BPF ended. As it was only the 
relationship between Mrs F and BPF that could be found unfair, limitation started to run 
when the credit agreement ended. As such I consider the claim was out of time.
S 32 Claim
Section 32(1)(b) applies where any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. Typically s.32 applies to fraudulent 
misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment. It can extend the time the consumer 
has to raise a claim. However, I believe Mrs F has raised a number of issues with the 
product (over and above commission) in her claim/complaint and those issues could have 
been discoverable earlier. I consider that that she either had discovered or ought to have 
been able to discover that something had gone wrong within six years. 
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mrs F is able to rely on s.32 LA here either. For 
the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that I have seen nothing to show that 
the timeshare provider was acting as agent to Mrs F. I cannot see that its role was to make 
an impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan. 
Overall, I think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the s.75 CCA 
misrepresentation and s.140A CCA claims were made too late. It is ultimately for the courts 
to decide whether or not any claim that Mrs F may have against the supplier or BPF has 
expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, those claims 
that Mrs F might have against the timeshare supplier and/or BPF have most likely exceeded 
the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these 
circumstances. And I am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly in declining the claims.
The breach of contract claim under s.75 CCA
I note that T suggests that as Mrs F did not own a property she could not benefit from the 
sale. I do not follow that logic. The contract states that: We acknowledge that the Property is 
described below for the sole purposes of identifying it for the purposes of its disposal at the 
Sale Date in accordance with the Rules and the subsequent distribution to the Owner of the 
appropriate one fifty second part (or multiples of) held in trust for the Owner.
I believe this means that if and when the property is sold Mrs F is entitled to a share of the 
proceeds in line with the rights she acquired. It does not require the property to be in her 
name or in joint names. The contract simply allows for a share of the proceeds to be 
allocated to Mrs F.
The complaint about the credit assessment
The investigator said that she had not seen anything to suggest that the lending was not 
affordable. However, our own rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in June 2013. Mrs F repaid the loan less than a year later which does not 
indicate an affordability issue. In any event the cloam was made out of time and so this 
service does not have the power to consider it. 
ConclusionFor the reasons set out above, I think BPF acted fairly in turning down Mrs F claims under 
s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late and I have not seen evidence that could 
amount to a breach of contract. I do not think there is any evidence to suggest the lending 
was irresponsible or unaffordable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman