DRN-4178135
The complaint
Mr S has complained he was misled about a hire purchase agreement he entered into with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as SEAT Financial Services (VWFS).
What happened
In December 2022 Mr S acquired a new car under a three-year hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. The cash price was £26,520 and Mr S made an advance payment of around 
£8,000. The APR was 5.1%. 
Mr S says he was told by the supplying dealer that there was no additional charge for paying 
off the finance agreement early. He said VWFS told him the same thing but when he 
contacted it in January 2023 to settle the agreement, he was unhappy he was charged an 
additional 58 days interest. He said this wasnt made clear to him and that he thinks the 
agreement was mis-sold. 
Mr S says hes paid around £150 extra interest than he expected. He complained and said 
hed like this refunded. 
VWFS said it carried out the early settlement quote supplied to Mr S in line with the 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr S referred his complaint to our service to consider. He told 
our investigator that at the time of purchase he didnt have the intention of paying off the 
finance when he did. But he did ask the salesperson whether thered be any charge for 
doing so because he wanted to fully understand his options. Mr S says he had the funds in 
savings which he didnt originally want to utilise but on reflection he changed his mind 
because the rate was so high. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she thought the settlement figure was 
correct. And that she couldnt conclude the agreement was mis-sold based on the evidence. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he was explicitly told something that was wrong by the 
salesperson. He said the additional charges should be shown clearly in the agreement. He 
said he couldnt supply evidence of the conversation he had with the salesperson, but VWFS 
should make sure key terms were explained. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has complained a regulated hire purchase agreement was mis-sold, and our service is 
able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. 
Mr S hasnt alleged the settlement has been calculated incorrectly. Hes complained that the 
agreement was mis-sold so this is what Ive focussed on. 
I think section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. This provision has the 
effect of deeming the supplying dealer to be the agent of VWFS in any antecedent 
negotiations. So VWFS is responsible for the antecedent negotiations the supplying dealer 
carried out direct with Mr S. 
Clearly, Ill never know exactly what was discussed between Mr S and the dealer. Mr S says 
he was explicitly mis-led, but hes also said he cant provide supporting evidence of this  
which isnt unusual given it relates to a conversation. I asked our investigator to contact the 
dealer and it said it doesnt hold any notes about the verbal discussions that took place. It 
said it wouldnt generally enter into discussions with consumers about early settlement 
interest rebates but that normally theres no extra fees or charges applied for settling an 
agreement early apart from the option to purchase fee. 
Where the evidence is contradictory or inconclusive as it is here, I need to consider what 
else there is available to base my decision on. Im mindful the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004 is part of the law. Finance agreements wont always set out all 
the laws that could be relevant to them  this isnt a legal requirement. Theres nothing in the 
agreement that sets out VWFS wont follow the law relating to early settlements. It sets out 
Mr S had the right of withdrawal for 14 days and that if he did so hed have to pay back the 
credit with daily interest until payment was received. But (outside of the withdrawal period) 
the agreement says if any early repayments were made VWFS would apply the statutory 
rebate. So I dont consider the agreement was wrong, or that it misled Mr S in some way. 
That being said, I agree it wouldnt be fair if Mr S was misled verbally. The dealer hasnt 
been able to give us a specific account of what it told Mr S. So its hard to reach firm 
conclusions. Based on the conversation it had with our investigator, and taking into account 
what Mr S has said, on balance, I think the dealer (and VWFS) was likely trying to explain to 
Mr S that thered be no extra charges or fees for settling the agreement early, other than 
what would be set out in the agreement (or by law). 
Under the right conditions, when settling an agreement early, the law requires the creditor to 
apply an interest rebate. Which is what happened for Mr S. Under the applicable regulations, 
a rebate means a rebate of charges for credit included in the total charge for credit. This 
refers to interest charges. In other words, when Mr S settled the agreement, VWFS had to 
calculate how much of the interest charges due under the agreement hed not have to pay. 
Even if the dealer (or VWFS) said thered be no charges for early termination at all, Mr S 
knew he was required to pay some interest. Mr S also signed pre-contract information to say 
hed read or been provided An explanation of how interest is charged should I wish to settle 
my finance agreement early. Based on what Ive said above, the interest itself is a charge, 
but Mr S wasnt required to pay all the interest under the agreement he signed because he 
settled it early. Therefore, VWFS was required to apply a rebate in line with the regulations. I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence Mr S was misled about this. Mr S did have the 
opportunity to ask further questions to clarify or look into the agreement further if he wasnt 
sure and it was important to him. The calculation for early settlement rebates is complicated. 
And its not something Id expect to be gone through in detail during the brokering of an 
agreement. 
Mr S wasnt asked to pay any extra charges that arent set out in law or under the 
agreement. Perhaps the dealer could have been clearer. But Im not persuaded Ive seen 
enough to safely conclude Mr S was misled. Therefore, while I sympathise Mr S says hes lost out the difference between the interest he 
had to pay compared to the interest he presumably would have earned on the money if he 
kept it in his savings account, I dont find I have the grounds to direct VWFS to pay him this 
amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman