DRN-1574286
Complaint
Mr B complains that Zenith Insurance plc refused to provide him with car insurance cover. 
Background
Mr B applied for car insurance through a price comparison website. He was provided with a 
number of quotes, and opted to take out cover with Zenith. He paid a deposit, but was then 
called by a broker (acting on Zeniths behalf) to discuss the answers hed given when 
applying for the cover. 
After obtaining further information from Mr B, the broker said the policy wouldn't go ahead. 
This was due to his expected mileage and where he parked his car. The broker returned his 
deposit. Unhappy with this, Mr B brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Zenith was entitled 
to decide whether or not it wanted to cover Mr B. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Although the broker made the decision not to offer Mr B cover, it did so under delegated 
authority from Zenith. Therefore, although Ive referred to both the broker and Zenith in this 
decision, Zenith was ultimately responsible for the decision not to offer Mr B cover. 
There were two reasons that Zenith decided not to offer Mr B cover. The first was due to his 
expected mileage. When applying for the policy, Mr B said he would be driving 8000 miles 
that year. When the broker spoke with Mr B, it found out that hed driven 20,000 miles the 
previous year. The broker decided to change the quote so that this would mirror Mr Bs 
mileage from the previous year. 
Mr B has explained his workplace is closer and so he didnt expect to be driving the same 
number of miles as he did the previous year. I think this is a perfectly reasonable explanation 
for Mr B stating he intended to drive 8000 miles. However, given that the policy hadnt 
actually started, I think it was up to the broker/Zenith to decide whether it wanted to use the 
previous years figure in the quote. 
The second reason was due to where Mr B parked his car. When taking out the policy, Mr B 
was asked where the car was kept. There were various options available to him, such as:- 
on a driveway, in a locked or unlocked garage etc. Mr B said he parked his car in an 
unlocked compound. 
When the broker spoke with Mr B, they established that he had a garage with a drive. The 
broker thought Mr B should have said that he parked on the drive, rather than in an unlocked compound. However, Mr B explains he has a 3ft wall around his house, and therefore 
thought an unlocked compound was the right answer. 
Again, I can understand Mr Bs reasons for stating that he parked in an unlocked compound. 
Ive looked at the price comparison site, and I see theres no guidance notes about what an 
unlocked compound might look like. However, again, given that the policy hadnt actually 
started, I think it was up to the broker/Zenith to decide if it agreed with Mr B that he parked in 
an unlocked compound, or a driveway. 
Therefore, whilst I dont think Mr B did anything wrong when he applied for the policy, based 
on the further information the broker obtained from Mr B before the policy started, Zenith 
decided not to offer him cover. As the investigator has explained, that decision was up to 
Zenith and isnt a matter in which this service would interfere. 
Mr B is understandably concerned that because Zenith chose not to provide him with cover, 
he may need to disclose this as a cancelled insurance policy, which may have an impact on 
the cost of future insurance policies. 
However, because the policy didnt actually start and therefore wasn't cancelled, that means 
Mr B wouldnt need to declare that hed had an insurance policy cancelled when applying for 
future insurance policies.  
Mr B has also raised concerns about the brokers decision to retain a £60 cancellation fee. 
This wasnt a fee charged by Zenith, and so I cant consider that issue as part of this 
complaint. But I see that weve set up a separate complaint against the broker so that we 
can consider this matter. 
In conclusion, whilst I can understand Mr Bs frustration that Zenith chose not to provide him 
with a car insurance policy, ultimately this decision was up to Zenith. Im satisfied that Mr B 
hasnt been negatively impacted by its decision, as he was refunded the deposit he paid and 
there's no record of the policy being cancelled. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman