DRN-2891414
The complaint
Ms Rs complained about repeated errors by Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) in her 
household insurance documentation, and that she couldnt access information using their 
online portal for the entire policy term.  
What happened
In August 2018, Ms R bought a household insurance policy from Fairmead.  She wanted to 
check the documentation was suitable for her needs within the 14 day cooling off period.  
But she couldnt access what she needed to check through Fairmeads online portal.
Ms R contacted Fairmead to let them know she was having problems.  She says Fairmeads 
agent told her thered been a system error, but the system had been reset.  Despite this,   
Ms R still couldnt access any information through the portal.
To resolve the problem, Fairmead said theyd send Ms R all documents by post.  They 
posted her policy documentation.  But they sent it to Ms Rs previous address.  Ms R only 
found out about this when her mail was passed onto her.  And she was concerned that other 
information in the documents was wrong.
In mid-September, Fairmead sent Ms R a secure message, with links to fresh 
documentation.  Fairmead had corrected all of the information, apart from the 
correspondence address.  But Ms R wasnt aware of this because she couldnt access the 
secure messaging service.  And any post she was sent was still addressed to her previous 
home.
Ms R complained about what had happened.   She didnt get any response to her complaint 
from Fairmead  nor did they respond when she chased the matter up several months later.  
So she brought her complaint to our service.  She told us she wanted Fairmead to resolve 
her complaint by refunding the policy premium shed paid.
Our investigator considered Ms Rs complaint and concluded Fairmead hadnt dealt with her 
fairly.  While she accepted Ms R couldnt access documents electronically, she couldnt say 
why that was  or that it was Fairmeads fault.  And, while she could see the documentation 
(except the address) had been corrected, it was clear that Ms R didnt know that because 
Fairmead continued to post documents to the wrong address.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair to say Fairmead should refund the premium Ms R had 
paid, because shed had the benefit of the policy for its term  even though shed had 
difficulty verifying that.  But she did say Fairmead should pay £75 compensation for using 
the wrong address throughout the policy term. 
Ms R accepted our investigators view that this was a fair outcome to her complaint.  But 
Fairmead didnt reply.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Ms Rs frustration with the situation she found herself in.  She paid for a policy 
and tried to do what she should have done  check to see if it was suitable for her.  But  for 
some reason - Fairmeads system stopped her.
Like our investigator, I cant say why that happened.  But Ive seen that Fairmead did what 
Id expect them to do and tried to correct the problem by resetting their system. And they 
corrected the mistakes in the policy documents Ms R told them about.  I can also see 
Fairmead tried to address Ms Rs access problem by providing her documents in another 
way  by post.
If that had been successful, I think the issue wouldve been resolved.  Instead, it was made 
worse by the fact that Fairmead sent documents to the wrong postal address.
Ive looked at the evidence and I think its clear that was a mistake on Fairmeads part.  Ive 
seen an email thread from September 2019.  Ms R was asked to provide information to help 
locate her policy, including her address.  Her reply says:
I have now received a copy of my policy documents in the post.  I called recently to make 
some changes to the policy and these have not been noted on my policy documents.
Firstly my address has changed as above to [new address].
So I think Ms R made it clear where correspondence should be sent.  And I think Fairmead 
should recognise they made a mistake in continuing to send items to address her old 
address.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that Fairmeads mistake means Ms R couldnt check she had 
cover  not that she didnt have it.  So I dont think its fair to say Fairmead should refund her 
premium for the year.
Ms R told the investigator that she thought the access problems she experienced would 
have made it difficult to make claim on the policy if shed needed to.  I understand why she 
thinks that.  Fortunately, she was never in that position.  But its not fair for me to direct 
Fairmead to compensate Ms R for what might have gone wrong  only what did.  
So I think Fairmead should compensate Ms R for not changing her postal address on their 
system when she told them about it.  I agree with our investigator that £75 is a reasonable 
amount of compensation for that.    
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint about Fairmead Insurance 
Limited and directing they pay her £75 compensation for the trouble their mistake caused 
her.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman