DRN-3623168
The complaint
Mr C complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very irresponsibly 
provided him with a catalogue shopping account and increases to its credit limit.
What happened
Mr C was provided with a catalogue shopping account in November 2017. The initial limit on 
the account was approved at £750; this was increased a number of times over the following 
years with the latest increase in May 2021 providing a limit of £4,550. 
In November 2021 Mr C complained to Very. He said it had irresponsibly provided him with 
the account and limit increases; because he said had it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks it would have identified the credit was unaffordable to him. He also 
complained about being in persistent debt, that Very had refused to accept a payment 
arrangement offer of £5 per month, that it wasnt clear how the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) 
part of his account worked, and about the behaviour of one of its representatives during a 
call. 
In December 2021 Very issued its final response upholding Mr Cs complaint in part. It 
concluded that the initial lending decision and first three limit increases were fairly provided. 
But it said it shouldnt have provided Mr C with the fourth limit increase in March 2020 from 
£2,050 to £3,050; and any limit increases after. It therefore applied a refund of the interest 
Mr C had paid on balances above £2,050 to his account. It reviewed the other parts of 
Mr Cs complaint but said it didnt find it had acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to 
these points; and therefore, didnt uphold this part of his complaint. Mr C brought his 
complaint to our service for consideration following Verys final response. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. She said Verys approach to 
redress on Mr Cs complaint was in line with our services approach. And she didnt find any 
evidence that Very had acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to Mr Cs other complaint 
points. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators outcome. In summary, he said:
Very refused to accept a payment arrangement hed proposed not just because he 
wouldnt agree to complete an income and expenditure assessment but because his 
proposal was too low;
Each month BNPL interest is added to his account, and he has to call Very to have this 
removed  something that he says Very should be doing as per the details within its final 
response;
Very shouldnt be able to default his account when he is maintaining an agreed payment 
arrangement; and
Trying to resolve these issues, while dealing with family matters, has caused stress, 
anxiety and depression. Mr C has said he should be compensated for this. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C.
Irresponsible and unaffordable lending of the account and limit increases
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website; as well as how a business should apply redress. Both parties have previously 
been made aware of our approach, so I see no need to repeat this information here.
In any event, Mr C has agreed with Verys decision within its final response to uphold his 
complaint about irresponsible and unaffordable lending from the limit increase in March 
2020. So, theres no longer an active dispute about irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
for me to consider. But Mr C complains about Verys approach to applying the redress to his 
account. Ive therefore reviewed this to consider if it is in line with our services approach. 
Having done so, Im satisfied Verys application of redress is in line with our services 
approach. I say this because our approach in cases like this is that Very should refund any 
interest and charges applied to balances above the last limit increase that is considered a 
fair lending decision. In Mr Cs case this would be any balance above £2,050. Ive seen 
evidence that Mr Cs account only went above £2,050 once, during the statement period 
ending 15 November 2021; and as a result, Very has said he incurred £23.57 in interest. 
As Mr Cs account was in arrears when he complained and when the interest refund was 
calculated, Very has, reasonably, used the refund to offset the outstanding overdue balance 
Mr C owed. And its not added credit interest to the amount refunded because Mr C didnt 
suffer a financial loss of not having use of the funds, which again I consider is in line with our 
services approach. 
From November 2021 onwards no further interest on the main part of the account was 
added. And Very has confirmed that when the BNPL agreements have matured it has 
refunded the interest accrued on these. So, Mr C hasnt paid interest or charges on the 
BNPL agreements that have matured since Very became aware of his financial difficulties; 
and he hasnt made us aware of any further financial loss he has suffered since he referred 
his complaint to our service. 
It therefore follows Im satisfied Very doesnt need to take any further action in relation to the 
redress it has already paid following its decision to uphold in part Mr Cs complaint about 
irresponsible and unaffordable lending. 
Did Very act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr C raised a number of additional points for our consideration in response to our 
investigators view, which Ive again summarised, and have responded to below:
Very refused to accept his proposed payment arrangement;
BNPL interest continued to be added to his account when agreements matured;
Very shouldnt be able to default his account when an approved arrangement to pay was 
in place; and
Mr C has suffered stress, anxiety and depression due to Verys handling of the ongoing 
maters and his complaint. Ive listened to the telephone call from November 2021 where Mr C made Very aware that 
he wouldnt be able to maintain his payments moving forward. The Very representative did 
discuss with Mr C that by completing an income and expenditure assessment it would be 
able to obtain a better understanding of his financial position; and ability to calculate an 
affordable payment arrangement. Mr C declined to complete an income and expenditure 
assessment; and he confirmed a number of times during the call that he was in a negative 
financial position each month. 
Very said within its final response that a payment of £5 per month was considered too low as 
it would take too long for the balance to be repaid. This is its decision to make; but in any 
event I dont consider it unreasonable that Very formally declined Mr Cs payment 
arrangement offer of £5 per month. It was unable to assess Mr Cs actual financial position 
so it accepted his testimony; and based on what Mr C declared, it wouldnt have been 
reasonable of Very to have agreed to any formal level of payment, given he had declared he 
was in a negative financial position each month. However, the representative did confirm to 
Mr C that he could make a payment of £5 per month to his account if he wished; but as this 
wouldnt be enough to clear the arrears it would ultimately lead to the account being 
defaulted.
Mr C pushed to understand how and when his account would default; and how this would be 
managed. I dont consider the answers the Very representative gave to have been as 
unreasonable or incorrect as Mr C suggests. From listening to the call, the representative did 
say on a number of occasions that the questions Mr C was asking would be better answered 
by another department. And where Mr C was asking very specific questions, the 
representative confirmed shed raise these as part of the complaint she logged. So, I 
consider the representative was trying to be as helpful as possible in answering some of 
Mr Cs questions; and made him aware that these were being noted as part of his complaint 
for review and further answer. 
Mr C says he was given conflicting information about the default process with some answers 
being misleading. Verys final response does confirm the conditions under which it would 
look to default an account. So, I consider Mr C was reasonably made aware of the correct 
information in December 2021, and Ive not been provided with any other evidence which 
suggests he was provided conflicting information. Ultimately Mr C was aware that his 
account would default if minimum payments werent maintained.
Mr C has said each time BNPL interest has been added to his account hes needed to call 
Very to have it removed. From the account information Very has provided Ive seen BNPL 
interest has been added to the account on maturity of agreements in January and February 
2022; and I can see this interest was refunded in full. 
When Mr C brought his complaint to our service in around March 2022, hed recently had the 
two BNPL agreements detailed above mature, and he raised concerns with the interest not 
being refunded. In his response to our investigators assessment in July 2022, he raised 
further concerns with BNPL interest not being refunded on BNPL agreements maturing in 
early June and early July 2022.
The interest Mr C is referring to appears, on balance, to relate to the interest that is added to 
the account on maturity of the BNPL agreements. Based on Verys confirmation within its 
final response of December 2021, and its approach in refunding the BNPL interest since 
maturity of the BNPL agreements from January 2022 onwards, I consider Mr C was aware 
that the BNPL interest would be refunded once the interest had been added to the account. I 
acknowledge that it appears this wasnt an automatic process and that it did take Mr C contacting Very to prompt it into reviewing his account and refunding the interest. This would 
have put Mr C to some inconvenience; but it appears this was resolved relatively quickly.
Mr C has said this caused anxiety, stress and led to depression during what was already a 
difficult time for him as he was also dealing with some family matters. Whilst I dont doubt 
Mr Cs testimony, I consider having to contact Very to make it aware of the issue and 
arrange for the interest to be refunded wouldnt have led to any more than a minor level of 
inconvenience, and therefore a lower level of impact on Mr C. 
I say this because Mr C was already aware from Verys final response that interest on 
maturing BNPL agreements would be refunded. And Very had refunded previous BNPL 
interest applied to Mr Cs account in January and February 2022. So, I think its fair to 
conclude that Mr C was aware that Very would refund the BNPL interest added to his 
account at maturity of his agreements, whether automatically or upon his contact. 
So, as I dont consider Verys actions would have impacted Mr C above what I would 
consider to be the normal nuisances when dealing with a financial business, I dont consider 
it needs to compensate Mr C for the impact he says he suffered. 
I note that Mr C had a further BNPL agreement due to mature in early October 2022, after 
this complaint had been referred to our service. If Mr C has any concerns with the maturity of 
this agreement, hell need to discuss this with Very and allow it its regulatory timeframe to 
address his concerns before he can ask our service to become involved. 
Very has confirmed it defaulted Mr Cs account prematurely and took steps to remove the 
default from his credit file. While Mr C is in an agreed payment arrangement, I wouldnt 
expect Very to look to default the account. So, I think the steps it has said it has taken to 
remove the default from his credit file is fair and reasonable.
Im sorry to hear Mr C has been dealing with personal matters that have, understandably, 
made dealing with this complaint more challenging and have, as hes said, caused stress, 
anxiety and led to depression. I acknowledge that dealing with a complaint can take time and 
effort, but that can at times be a common part of interacting with a business. 
Having considered all of the information available to me, and as Ive found above, I cant 
conclude that Very has treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably throughout the complaint. 
I therefore follows Im not recommending Very needs to take any further action to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint 
about Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman