DRN-3303627
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance, has terminated the conditional sale agreement under which a car had been 
supplied to him.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr S under a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer Finance that he signed in May 2019. He didnt make all of the payments that were 
due under the agreement and Santander Consumer Finance deferred some of those 
payments but Mr S continued to have issues with his payments. Various options were 
discussed and Mr S then asked to voluntarily terminate the agreement in May 2021. 
Santander Consumer Finance accepted the voluntary termination so it ended the agreement 
and instructed a third party to collect the car. Mr S then said that he wanted to cancel the 
voluntary termination but he was told that it couldnt be cancelled. 
He complained to Santander Consumer Finance later that month but it said that when a 
customer requests to proceed with a voluntary termination, the process cant be reversed. It 
also said that there was still a liability to pay of £6,682.72 and that it had tried on multiple 
occasions to get in contact with Mr S to discuss the reschedule option but there had been 
broken promises. The car was then collected in July 2021. Mr S wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator set out the reasons that he didnt consider that Mr Ss complaint should be 
upheld but Mr S then said that he was affected by the government imposed restrictions in 
response to the pandemic and they were part of the reason that he wasnt able to keep up 
with his monthly payments. Our investigator reconsidered Mr Ss complaint but didnt 
recommend that it should be upheld. He said that Mr Ss financial difficulties had been 
continuing since his missed payment in January 2020 and that Santander had acted 
correctly in actioning the voluntary termination and not returning the car after Mr S had 
asked for the voluntary termination to be unwound. 
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that if his 
complaint isnt upheld hell be taking this further, including going to court if necessary. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
its clear from Santander Consumer Finances account notes that Mr Ss account was 
in arrears in January 2020 and he was sent a default notice at the end of that month 
 the account notes show that Mr S said that he was using his overdraft and was also 
behind on other bills;
Mr S didnt make the monthly payment that was due by direct debit in March 2020 
but, after he was contacted by Santander Consumer Finance about the missed 
payment, he made a card payment to it  that was before the government imposed 
any restrictions in response to the pandemic;
Santander Consumer Finance agreed a three month payment deferral with Mr S in 
May 2020 and he then didnt make a payment to it until November 2020  there were 
frequent discussions between October 2020 and May 2021 about Mr Ss options 
under the agreement and the final response letter from Santander Consumer 
Finance sets out a timeline of what happened during that period;
Mr S then told Santander Consumer Finance in May 2021 that he wanted it to collect 
the car as hed lost his job and wasnt able to make any further payments  he was 
advised of the process for voluntarily terminating the agreement, including his liability 
of £6,682.72 and the collection fee, and he sent it an e-mail which said: I would like 
to terminate the contract immediately on aggravated termination asap;
Santander Consumer Finance then sent a notice of voluntary termination to Mr S four 
days later which said: You have recently requested to Voluntarily Terminate your 
agreement with us. I can confirm that your instructions have been carried out and 
your agreement with us is now terminated;
Santander Consumer Finance instructed a third party to collect the car from Mr S but, 
after it had tried to do so, Mr S contacted Santander Consumer Finance and said that 
he wanted to cancel the voluntary termination;
he was told that his agreement had already been ended and the car was collected in 
July 2021;
I consider that Santander Consumer Finance had responded to Mr Ss financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically  as it was required to do  and I consider 
that those financial difficulties began before the government imposed restrictions in 
response to the pandemic;
after those restrictions began, it agreed a payment deferral with Mr S in accordance 
with the guidance that had been issued - Mr S then didnt make a payment to it until 
November 2020 and there were regular and detailed discussions between it and 
Mr S about his options under the agreement;
Mr S then asked to voluntarily terminate the agreement and I consider that Santander 
Consumer Finance acted correctly in accepting that request and ending his 
agreement  so by the time that Mr S asked to cancel his request, the agreement 
had been ended and couldnt be reinstated;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Santander Consumer 
Finance has acted incorrectly in these circumstances, the car cant now be returned 
to Mr S and Im not persuaded that Santander Consumer Finance should be required 
to reinstate the agreement; and
I sympathise with Mr S for the financial difficulties that hes experienced and the 
issues that theyve caused him but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Santander Consumer Finance to reduce or waive the 
amount that he owes to it, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
I suggest that Mr S contacts Santander Consumer Finance to try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement for the amount that he owes to it. If he doesnt do so I consider it to 
be likely that it will take further action to recover that amount from him, to the extent that its legally entitled to do so. Its required to continue to respond to any financial difficulties that 
hes experiencing positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman