DRN-3727900
The complaint
Miss H complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) gave her a personal loan that was 
unaffordable.
What happened
In October 2016, Miss H applied for a Tesco personal loan of £23,000. Her application said 
the loan was for refinancing other debt, that she was self-employed with a net monthly 
income of £2,500, lived with her parents and had no monthly rent or mortgage costs. Tesco 
agreed the loan, with a term of 36 months and monthly repayments of £709.88. 
After the first three monthly payments, Miss H fell into arrears. In early 2017, she told Tesco 
that health issues were affecting her ability to make payments, and it assisted Miss H, 
including putting the loan account on hold at times. But ultimately, Miss Hs account 
remained in arrears. In June 2017 Tesco sent her a notice of default letter. By December 
2017 it had passed her account to a third-party debt collector. 
In early 2018, Miss H asked Tesco to write off the loan because she said her significant 
mental health issues at the time of the application meant she was unrealistic about her 
earnings and ability to repay the loan. And breaking her ankle in June 2017 meant she 
wasnt able to work, so her mental health and financial difficulties worsened. But Tesco didnt 
agree to this and the debt remained with debt collectors. 
In 2021 Miss H complained to Tesco that it had given her a loan that was unaffordable and 
said another lender had agreed to write off a loan in the circumstances.
In response, Tesco said data from Miss Hs loan application and credit reference agencies 
caused no concern about this lending. It said Miss H didnt tell it about any health issues 
when she applied, and it had asked her to review its loan offer to check it was affordable and 
if she wanted to continue. Tesco also said it was entitled to rely on Miss Hs application 
information and wasnt obliged to ask her to evidence her income.
Miss H remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our Service. Our Investigator 
thought Tesco hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate lending checks and, if it had, 
it would have seen Miss Hs true income meant this loan wasnt affordable. She said Tesco 
should remove any adverse information it had added to Miss Hs credit record about this 
loan, and refund all loan interest and charges it had applied - and if this resulted in Miss H 
having paid too much, it should refund any overpayment plus 8% simple interest.
Miss H said shed in fact been paying £400 to £450 a month rent at the time of the loan and 
her only current income was benefits. 
Tesco said our Investigator hadnt seen enough of Miss Hs bank statements to fairly assess 
her circumstances at the time of application. It said Miss H had passed its standard checks, 
so it didnt need to verify her income, and her circumstances had changed after she took the 
loan. Tesco said its lending criteria was a commercial decision, and our Service shouldnt 
dictate what checks it carried out or base our findings on hindsight. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for consideration. Our 
Service asked Miss H for further bank statements and income information for the months 
before her loan application, which she provided.
On 13 September 2022 I issued my provisional decision in which I said, 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Tesco is entitled set its own lending criteria and make commercial decisions 
about who to lend to. But when a complaint is referred to our Service, its our role to consider 
whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably in the particular circumstances.
Tesco is also entitled to rely on the information a consumer gives in a lending application. 
But, broadly speaking, when a business is lending its required to carry out checks which are 
reasonable and proportionate to the amount being lent. And it should show it considered that 
the consumer wouldve been able to sustainably repay the credit provided over the term of 
the loan, without causing undue difficulty and without having to borrow further to meet other 
financial commitments. Sustainably repay means the consumer should be able to repay the 
full amount of credit.
In this case, Miss H applied to borrow £23,000 and said she was self-employed with a net 
income of £2,500 and no rent or mortgage costs. Tescos checks showed no adverse 
information on Miss Hs credit record, that she had monthly debt repayments of £765 and 
her estimated monthly living costs were £320. And the monthly repayment for this loan 
would be £715. Tesco calculated this loan still left Miss H with a significant amount of 
disposable income each month, so Miss Hs application passed its automated checks.
I appreciate Tesco says its checks gave it no cause for concern. But I dont think its checks
were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. Thats because Miss H was asking
to borrow a significant amount, and she said she was self-employed, so its reasonable to 
think her income was likely to be variable. Therefore, I think reasonable and proportionate
checks here would also have included Tesco verifying Miss Hs income, for example by 
asking for copies of her bank statements for the three months prior to her loan application.
But it didnt do so.
Miss H has now provided me with a range of her current account and savings account 
statements for the months leading up to her Tesco loan application. She has marked her
self-employed income on these, and from July 2016 to the date of her Tesco application this
totalled £1,469.
Miss Hs statements also shows many other incoming payments to her current account 
most of these were for smaller amounts but there was also one for £3,500 in August 2016
and one for £3,000 in September 2016. Miss H said the smaller amounts were funds she
transferred in from her savings account when she was struggling financially, and her savings
largely came from £3,000 left over from another loan she took out in May 2016. And shed
had to borrow a large sum in the past from a friend and had no savings left at the end of
September 2016. Miss H said her savings account statements supported this.
But Miss H wasnt sure where the two larger incoming amounts of £3,500 and £3,000 had
come from, though she suggested they might have come from other loans. But shes not
provided any evidence to support this. And I note these two incoming payments are 
referenced in a broadly similar way on Miss Hs current account statements as the self- 
employed income Miss H herself marked for us. So on the balance of probabilities, I think itsmore likely than not that the two amounts of £3,500 and £3,000 are also self-employed
income. Therefore, Im satisfied it is likely Miss Hs total self-employed income was £7,969 in
the approximately three months before her Tesco loan application.
So, if Tesco had asked Miss H to verify her income as I think it should have, it would have
seen from her bank statements that, when averaged out across the three months leading up
to her Tesco loan application, her income was broadly in line with the £2,500 income a 
month shed stated on her Tesco loan application form. Taking account of the £450 per
month rent Miss H now says she was in fact paying, and that she applied for the Tesco loan
to refinance other debts, I think the Tesco loan would still have left Miss H with a reasonable
amount of disposable income each month. So, Im satisfied that even if Tesco had verified
Miss Hs income as it should have, it would still have fairly and reasonably concluded this
loan was affordable.
Miss H says she had significant mental health issues at that the time of her application. Im
very sorry to hear about this and the other difficulties Miss H has told us about. But Ive not
seen that Miss H told Tesco about any health issues at the time of her application. So I cant
say it shouldve acted differently because of this.
Miss H also says her circumstances changed for the worse afterwards, and another lender
agreed to write off a debt given her circumstances. That may be so. But that doesnt mean
Tesco is obliged to do the same thing, or that it has acted unfairly.
While I realise this will be a very great disappointment to Miss H, Im not intending to ask
Tesco to do anything here.
In response, Miss H provided two documents. One was titled Draft Financial Statements 
Detailed trading and profit and loss account for the year ended 5 April 2017, and listed 
Miss Hs self-employed operating profit as £8,466 in 2016. And the other, hand-written, note 
was titled Expenses Report October 2016 and said Miss Hs monthly profit for October 
2016 was £705.50. Miss H thought these showed she couldnt have afforded the Tesco loan 
repayments and reiterated Tesco wouldnt have offered her the loan if it had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. 
Tesco didnt provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Im satisfied the further evidence Miss H provided in response to my provisional 
decision doesnt change the outcome here. I know this isnt the answer Miss H hoped for, 
but Ill explain why. 
The two further documents Miss H has now provided suggest her profit in October 2016 was 
£705.50, and her self-employed operating profit in 2016 was £8,466. Its hard to see whether 
these two further documents are at odds with the various bank statements Miss H has 
previously provided our Service with. But in any case, one of the further documents is a 
hand-written note, so I cant be sure when it was produced. And the other seems to be a 
page from draft information Miss H may have provided to her accountant, so I dont know 
what the final information was. Given this, I think its fair to place more weight on the bank statements Miss H has previously 
provided. And as I explained in my provisional decision, Miss Hs bank statements showed 
its likely her self-employed income totalled £7,969 in the approximately three months before 
her Tesco loan application. 
So I remain of the opinion that if Tesco had asked Miss H to verify her income, as I think it 
should have, it would have seen from her bank statements that, when averaged out across 
the three months leading up to her Tesco loan application, her income was broadly in line 
with the £2,500 income a month shed stated on her Tesco loan application form. And that, 
taking account of the £450 per month rent Miss H now says she was in fact paying and that 
she applied for the Tesco loan to refinance other debts, the Tesco loan would still have left 
her with a reasonable amount of disposable income each month. So, Im satisfied Tesco 
would still have reasonably concluded this loan was affordable.
Therefore, Im not asking Tesco to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Im not asking Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to take any action here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman