DRN-2310917
The complaint
Mrs A complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont pay for all the repairs to her car 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy. Mrs A is represented in this matter by Mr A, 
a named driver on her policy. 
What happened
Mrs As car was damaged whilst unattended. UKI investigated the claim and three engineers 
said there was damage to the engine that couldnt have been caused by the accident. UKI 
asked Mr A to explain how this damage had occurred, but he declined to do this. UKI 
therefore said it wouldnt settle the claim unless Mrs A obtained her own engineers report to 
show the cause of the internal damage was related to the accident.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI was 
entitled to ask questions about the claim. But she thought there was no evidence that Mrs A 
had acted fraudulently or had deliberately inflated the claim. She thought UKI should settle 
the claim based on the damage known to have been caused by the accident. She thought it 
should either pay for repairs or offer a settlement based on the cost of the damage. 
UKI replied that it had never accused Mrs A of fraud. But it said the claimed for damage 
included some that was unrelated to the incident. It wanted an explanation of how this had 
occurred or an engineers report to say that it was incident-related.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that its now over two years since the accident and I can understand that Mrs A 
wants her claim settled. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
UKI had three engineers assess the damage to the car. They agreed that there had been 
damage to the front bumper and grill caused by an impact. But there was also damage to the 
engine. Mr A said this wasnt there before the accident. Two engineers said the impact 
wouldnt have caused this damage. The other engineer said an oil leak required further 
investigation.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for l 
repairs.
I can see that UKI repudiated the claim because Mr A wasnt able to provide an explanation 
of the damage to the engine. He said that he didnt know and he declined to obtain his own 
expert engineers report to validate the claim. 
I think its reasonable for UKI to request information to validate a claim. I can see that its a 
requirement for Mrs A to give UKI any help it needs in dealing with a claim. 
I also think it was reasonable for UKI to request Mrs A to provide her own engineers report 
for the claimed for damage. I think this is a reasonable way to break a deadlock. Its now 
some time since the accident and an examination of the car may no longer be relevant. But I 
think Mr A could have had an engineer give an opinion based on the previous assessments 
and photographs. But he declined to do this. 
So I agree that Mrs A hasnt provided a reason for the damage to the engine or validated it 
with an engineers report. And so she hasnt justified her claim for this damage. So I think 
UKI has justified its decision not to pay for repairs for this damage to the engine. 
But, from what I can see, UKI has accepted that damage to the cars front bumper and grill 
was caused by the accident. The policy covers this damage but excludes any mechanical 
damage. I think its reasonable for UKI to pay for the repairs that have been accepted, 
unless a policy term and condition has been breached. UKI has told us that it hasnt accused 
Mrs A of fraud. So as I cant see a reason for it to not pay for these repairs, I think it should 
now do so.
Putting things right
I think U K Insurance Limited should settle the claim based on the damage which is
known to have been caused by the accident  it should either pay for the repairs or offer a
settlement based on the cost of the repairs for the damage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman