DRN-3993511
The complaint
Ms R has complained about the poor service and delays Premier Insurance Company 
Limited caused when she made a claim under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms R was involved in an incident with another vehicle in May 2021. She complained to 
Premier about the delays and poor service it had caused. 
In October 2022 Ms R provided us with a copy of Premiers response to her complaint in 
April 2022. Premier upheld Ms Rs complaint and offered compensation of £75. 
Ms R asked us to look at her complaint. She was unhappy with the increase in premium at 
renewal in February 2022 as the claim was showing on an external database as a fault 
claim. Ms R said shed paid the premium in full for the year in February 2021 and expected a 
partial refund. She had emailed Premier on 4 May 2022 and asked it to clarify that the £75 
offered didnt relate to a refund of premium before she could accept it. Ms R said Premier 
failed to respond to her request for clarification. 
Ms R told us shed expected Premier to provide a refund for car hire costs. 
We asked Premier to provide its business file. But Premier failed to provide it. It provided 
some information. It provided Ms Rs policy documents. It said Ms Rs car was deemed a 
total loss. It said the claim hadnt yet been settled as the third party insurer (TPI) disputed 
liability. 
Premier advised that Ms R had additional car hire cover with a separate underwriter. Under 
her policy with Premier, she wasnt entitled to a courtesy car as her car was declared a total 
loss. 
Our Investigator issued her view in December 2022, based on the limited available 
information. She didnt think Premier had done anything wrong in not considering any car 
hire costs Ms R had paid as this wasnt covered under her policy. She thought Premier 
should include the premium costs in the outlay it looked to recovery from the third party 
insurer (TPI) if Ms R wasnt at fault for the incident. But she said this service couldnt decide 
liability, as this was a matter for the courts. 
The Investigator recommended Premier pay Ms R an additional compensation sum of £200 
for ongoing delays since May 2022, so a total of £275 compensation. 
Premier didnt agree. It said the premium paid doesnt form part of recoverable claim related 
costs from the TPI. And it said the policy explains that the full premium is due when a claim 
is made under the policy. 
It didnt comment on the recommended award of compensation. 
Ms R acknowledged receipt of the Investigators view.  
Premier wanted an ombudsman to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 February 2023. I thought Premier should pay 
compensation of an additional £200 for the poor service and delays up to when it replied to 
the complaint on 29 April 2022. I explained that Ms Rs remaining and ongoing complaints 
could be brought to Premier for consideration. 
I didnt agree that Premier owed Ms R a pro rata refund of premium under the policy as a 
claim had been made and the premium didnt fall under the claim recovery costs. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings in my provisional decision were as follows:
A policy providing cover is set up for a year - this is the term of the contract to which the 
insurer agrees to provide indemnity. Premier has a very common term which is industry 
standard - that in the event of a claim the full years premium is due. The cost of cover 
doesnt form part of recovery costs in the event of a claim - and so this isnt something 
Premier can look to recover from a third party insurer if this is settled as a non-fault claim. 
So as a claim was made, Premier met its obligations under the policy and Ms R isnt entitled 
to a pro rata refund of the premium she paid for cover. 
Despite several requests since October 2022, Premier hasnt provided its file. So we have 
very limited information to properly investigate Ms Rs complaint.
In any event, we can only consider the complaints Ms R raised with Premier - and it 
responded to - up to 29 April 2022. In the absence of key information from Premier, I intend 
to uphold Ms Rs complaint. But I think an award of £200 compensation in addition to the 
£75 already offered (or paid) is a reasonable amount for poor service and delay from May 
2021 to April 2022. This is a period of almost a year since the incident occurred and I have 
no evidence to show Premier took any steps to progress the claim or keep Ms R updated. 
Ms R can raise a new complaint about any ongoing delay, poor service from May 2022 and 
the impact this had had on the premium shes paid at renewal since February 2022 with 
Premier. If shes unhappy with Premiers response to her complaint(s), Ms R can ask us to 
look at things for her. 
I dont think Premier is responsible for car hire costs Ms R paid for three days shortly after 
the incident. Premier provides a courtesy car in the event of a car being repairable, which Ms 
Rs wasnt, according to what Premier has told us. Ms Rs policy which was sold through a 
broker shows additional replacement car cover. As this cover is underwritten by a separate 
business to Premier, Ms R can contact it - or her broker - to seek assistance. 
As both parties agreed with my provisional findings, my final decision is on the same lines. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Premier Insurance Company 
Limited to increase the compensation from £75 (unless its already paid this) to £275 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service and delay up until 29 April 2022. 
Premier Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Ms R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman