DRN-2244780
The complaint
Mr H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined a claim under his mobile 
phone insurance.
What happened
Mr H has a mobile phone insurance policy with Assurant. He made a claim after he says his 
phone was damaged accidentally.
Mr H says he sent the damaged phone to Assurant by recorded delivery  and the package 
was signed for on arrival with Assurant.
He says Assurant havent repaired or replaced the phone but nonetheless took an excess 
payment from him. And they then denied having received the phone at all, despite having 
told him on a number of occasions that repairs were being attempted.
Mr H complained to Assurant. Theyve returned his excess fee, given that there was no 
repair or replacement of Mr Hs phone. But they say never received the phone and they 
arent going to replace it.
Mr H was unhappy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Assurant had done anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say that when a phone is accidentally damaged, it 
should be sent to Assurant, so they can assess it and repair it if possible  or if not, replace 
it.
The policy also says:
We recommend you send your phone via a secure method. This means a 
guaranteed or tracked postal delivery which provides a sufficient level of 
compensation I the event that the item is lost by the postal service.
And it suggests policyholders insure the contents of any package because Assurant will not 
cover any loss in transit.
Mr H has sent us a photograph of a damaged phone. Hes also sent us proof that he sent a 
package to Assurant by recorded delivery. 
He says he rang Assurant several times after he sent in the phone to check on progress and 
he was told the package had arrived and he should allow a few days for the repair or 
replacement.
Assurant say the package they received from Mr H  with the correct recorded delivery 
reference  contained a fitness manual rather than a phone. They say the package was sent 
without any covering note stating the claim number, so was at first not connected with Mr Hs 
claim.
They say when their staff told Mr H the package had arrived, that was because it had been 
logged against the recorded delivery number (which he gave them) but hadnt been linked to 
a claim as yet. 
Staff advised Mr H the package had been received (it had). And on the assumption that it 
contained what he said it contained  which was a reasonable assumption at the time  
advised him the phone would be repaired or replaced shortly.
It was after that call had finished that the warehouse staff advised that the package had 
contained a fitness manual rather than a phone.
Mr H says he posted the phone  and that Assurant staff have misplaced it or stolen it. And 
he wants Assurant to replace his phone.
Its impossible for me to know with complete certainty what Mr H posted to Assurant and 
what then happened when the package was delivered. I have to consider all the evidence 
and information provided by Mr H and by Assurant and decide whats most likely to have 
happened.
On balance, I dont think Assurant received a phone from Mr H  and so I wont be asking 
them to do anything more in this case. Ill explain why.
Assurant have sent a photograph of the package, with a fitness manual inside it. Theyve 
pointed out their warehouse  where the delivery was received and signed for  is a secure 
unit and monitored by CCTV. This makes it, on the face of it, unlikely their staff tampered 
with the contents of the package.
Mr H has sent us copies of his receipts from Royal Mail for the recorded delivery. These 
show that he sent a package. They dont show what was inside the package.
Mr H made his claim on-line on 17 December 2019. He was advised to send it in by secure 
means. On 19 December, Mr H made his first call to Assurant to ask whether it had been 
received.
The Royal Mail postage receipt shows a date of issue of 30 December 2019. Some days 
after Mr H first said hed posted the package. When this discrepancy was pointed out, Mr H 
said hed left the package with a relative for posting because he was away with work. And 
she clearly hadnt posted it immediately.
The receipt also shows the package weighed significantly more than you would expect a 
phone of that type to weigh. And the declared value of the contents is £20 - far less than the 
value of the phone. Mr H chose not to insure the contents of the package during delivery as 
the policy suggests he should.
Assurant also have access to records maintained by the manufacturer of the phone  and 
made available to service providers for their products, such as Assurant. These show the phone was restored on 21 December 2019. Thats four days after Mr H says the phone was 
damaged  and he says it was damaged to the extent it couldnt be used at all. And its after 
he says he handed the phone to a relative for posting (but before the date of posting on the 
receipt).
Taking all of that evidence and information into account, Im satisfied its much more likely 
than not that Assurant received a package containing a fitness manual, as they claim. Im 
making no assumptions as to how that happened, but I am satisfied its very likely that is 
what happened.
The terms of Mr Hs policy are clear that Assurant will not cover the loss of a phone in 
transit. And that the policyholder can  and should  take steps to ensure they can recover 
the value of the phone from the delivery service or from another insurer.
Having received a fitness manual rather than a mobile phone, Assurant arent obliged to 
replace Mr Hs phone. And they havent dealt with Mr Hs claim unfairly or unreasonably. The 
information provided to him throughout was reasonable  and where it was in fact mistaken, 
any misunderstanding was based entirely on what Mr H told Assurants staff when he spoke 
to them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman