DRN-1110140
The complaint
Miss K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt do enough to notify her when it 
made changes to the terms and conditions of her account.
What happened
Miss K held a current account with an attached overdraft with Lloyds. In 2014 she moved 
abroad and in 2016 she notified Lloyds of her new address. She says she opted to receive 
paperless communications.
At the end of July 2017, Lloyds began to receive returned correspondence, but Miss K 
continued making repayments into her account until 29 August 2018. After that date, direct 
debits and charges continued to be debited from the account but no further funds were 
credited.
Throughout this time, charges were being continuously applied to the account, which Miss K 
was aware of. In November 2017 Lloyds changed their charging structure for authorised 
overdrafts. Miss K says Lloyds didnt notify her of this and as the account was used 
sporadically, she didnt notice the charges were building up. Miss K doesnt think it was fair 
for Lloyds to charge her the additional amounts under its new structure and would like it to 
refund the charges to her.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that Lloyds had 
notified Miss K of the changes to her account via post and electronically and he thought the 
bank had done enough to make her aware of the changes to her accounts terms and 
conditions.
Miss K didnt agree. She said the bank shouldnt have removed her overdraft and she didnt 
think the overdraft should have been allowed to accumulate debt in the way it did under the 
new charging structure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Miss Ks comments that Lloyds didnt inform her of the change to the 
charging structure on her account and that it should have done more. I can see Lloyds sent 
Miss K a letter informing her of the changes to the charging structure of her account in 
August 2017. It gave her the option to opt out of the changes by closing her account. 
However it was around this time that post started to be returned to Lloyds from the address it 
held on file for her.
Miss K appears to have opted for paperless correspondence, however this seems to be a 
communication preference and wont necessarily mean that Lloyds wouldnt have written to 
her in situations where it was required to do so. I havent seen any evidence that Miss K told 
Lloyds it couldnt write to her, so I think it acted reasonable in communicating with her using 
the details it held on record. And I can also see that Lloyds has emailed her regarding her 
account on several occasions and these dont seem to have been read  so Im not satisfied 
that it would have made a difference if Lloyds had emailed her about the changes, rather 
than sent her the information by post.
As Miss K has concerned about the way debt accumulated on the account, I have also 
considered whether Lloyds should have done more to monitor this account. Until November 
2017, Miss K seems to have had the ability to pay off the overdraft if she wanted to, which 
she had done on several occasions. However that was the last time she held a credit 
balance.
At that time Miss K had regular credits going into the account and it wasnt unusual for her to 
build up some debt using the overdraft, which she would then repay at a later date  so I 
dont think there was any unusual activity at that time or any suggestion that Lloyds needed 
to intervene at that stage.
In July 2018, Miss Ks overdraft was due to be renewed and it isnt clear whether Lloyds 
carried out this review. But by that point, despite the overdraft receiving regular credits, it 
was also accumulating debt and was no longer being used for short-term emergency 
borrowing as Miss K hadnt brought the account out of the overdraft for around seven 
months. The overdrawn balance was also gradually increasing each month as the amounts 
being paid into the account werent enough to cover the charges. So I think, had Lloyds 
carried out a review on Miss Ks account, it should have noticed she was in some difficulty.
So Ive then considered what I think is likely to have happened if it had noticed and taken 
steps to contact Miss K. I can see that the last credit to the account was made in August 
2018 and Lloyds began contacting Miss K after that to ask her to get in touch. Miss K 
appears not to have responded or opened the messages sent via online banking. So, even if 
Lloyds had got in touch sooner than it did, I dont think Miss K would have responded.
As it was, Lloyds began contacting Miss K in October 2018 to say it had stopped receiving 
credits to the account and sent further letter reiterating the next steps  that the overdraft 
limit would be removed. But had Lloyds carried out a review in July 2018 then I would have 
expected it to begin contacting Miss K sooner and ultimately I would have expected it to 
remove the overdraft and send a formal demand or default notice within six months  so 
around the end of 2018, which would have had the effect of stopping the charges 
accumulating on the account.
I can see that Lloyds removed the overdraft limit on Miss Ks account in December 2018 
which also stopped charges being added to the account. So ultimately, I dont think it made a 
difference even if the overdraft review didnt take place as I would have expected charges to 
the account would have stopped around the same time as they did  in December 2018.
Miss K has said that she doesnt think Lloyds should have removed her overdraft facility, but 
an overdraft facility is repayable on demand and I can see it sent several notifications that it 
intended to remove the facility before it eventually did. So I dont think Lloyds made an error 
in removing her overdraft facility.
Overall, I dont think Lloyds made an error in the charges it applied to the account and I dont 
think it was required to stop applying charges to the account sooner than it did. I also dont 
think it acted unfairly in removing Miss Ks overdraft facility given that she was making no 
credits to the account.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman