DRN-2842306
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they 
were mis-sold a with-profits bond by Bradford & Bingley Plc.
What happened
In 1999 Mr and Mrs D were advised to invest £20,000 in a with-profits bond. When Mr and 
Mrs D surrendered the bond in 2002, they received just over £22,000 including income 
received throughout the time the bond was in place. In 2020 they made a complaint, via a 
CMC, saying that they were advised to invest too much money and take too much risk, and 
that they shouldnt have been advised to invest in a long-term investment. The CMC said 
they ought to have been advised to place the money in a high interest savings account.
Bradford & Bingley agreed the complaint should be upheld because the adviser hadnt 
established Mr and Mrs Ds attitude to risk, nor had they explained the risks particular to 
with-profits bonds. They compared the return Mr and Mrs D received with the return theyd 
have gotten on half their money using the average rates from one-year fixed rate bonds, and 
half using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Index, and found that there was no 
compensation payable. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the method of redress and so brought the complaint to our 
service. An investigator at our service looked at the complaint and agreed with Bradford & 
Bingley, but as the CMC didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. 
Having reviewed the case, I wrote to the CMC to let them know my initial thoughts. I 
explained that I felt Mr and Mrs D had been willing to take some risk and had capacity to do 
so with this money. However, I wasnt satisfied that Bradford & Bingley had sufficiently 
explained the risks particular to with-profits bonds, like the application of a market value 
reduction, which meant Mr and Mrs D had been unable to make an informed decision. Had 
they understood these features, I thought it was unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have taken out 
this particular investment. As they were willing and able to take some risk, I explained that I 
thought the method of redress offered by Bradford & Bingley was fair in the circumstances 
and in line with the long-standing approach our service has taken to compensating 
complaints like this.
 
The CMC didnt agree  in summary they said that theres no evidence Mr and Mrs D would 
have taken any risk, had they been given sufficient information. They feel the evidence 
shows that Mr and Mrs D were told the bond was very low risk, and they were only willing to 
take very minimal risk with their money. There was no need for income from the investment, 
based on the figures recorded at the time of the sale, as half of Mr and Mrs Ds income was 
disposable. So, either the figures were unreliable, or they were unsuitably advised to take an 
income. The CMC explained that they think the evidence shows Mr and Mrs D did not want 
to invest in equity investments, and so the use of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Index is inappropriate as a benchmark. They feel that just the average rates from fixed rate 
bonds should be used to calculate redress.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the investment was mis-sold for the reasons set 
out above, and that the redress method used by Bradford & Bingley is reasonable. I accept 
that Mr and Mrs D were not willing to take much risk with their investment, based on the 
comments recorded at the time of the sale. However, on balance I think they were willing to 
take a small amount of risk. 
In particular, Ive taken account of the answers the CMC gave on behalf of Mr and Mrs D 
when they were asked questions by Bradford & Bingley during the complaint. The answers 
show that Mr and Mrs D were aware the value of the investment could fluctuate and that the 
returns were linked to the stock market. They knew the return was not guaranteed and that 
they may get back less than the original amount invested. Based on these answers and the 
fact they proceeded with the investment on that basis, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs D were 
willing to take more than a minimal amount of risk with the investment. I think they 
understood that this was more risk than theyd previously taken with their savings and were 
comfortable taking that additional risk.
The amount invested was not earmarked for any other purpose and I dont think its unusual 
that they would have been willing to take a small amount of risk with it. I think the amount 
invested was not unsuitable, particularly given Mr and Mrs Ds disposable income. 
Ive considered the comments from the CMC around whether the income paid from the 
investment was required, particularly given the disposable income Mr and Mrs D had 
available. Given I agree the advice was unsuitable for other reasons, I wont go into detail on 
this point. Regardless of whether they wanted income or growth, I think the benchmark used 
represents the sort of return theyd have received had suitable advice been given. 
Overall, I think the benchmark used by Bradford & Bingley is fair in the circumstances. The 
benchmark is not an exact reflection of the sorts of investments I think Mr and Mrs D ought 
to have been advised to invest in. Rather it broadly reflects the sorts of returns Mr and Mrs D 
could have achieved with their money by taking a small amount of risk. So, while I 
understand the comments made by the CMC about Mr and Mrs D not being willing to invest 
in equities, I dont think that means the proposed remedy calculation is unfair or 
unreasonable. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2021. 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman