DRN-2488381
The complaint
Mr J complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) unfairly ended a hire 
purchase agreement because, it said, he modified the car without consent.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr J entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a new car costing 
just over £61,000. Mr Js business carries out custom tuning and similar work on high 
performance cars, but the hire purchase agreement was a personal contract in Mr Js own 
name.
The terms and conditions of the agreement included, at clause 4(d):
 you must  not alter the Vehicle in any way without first obtaining our prior written 
consent, and if we consent you must restore the Vehicle to its original condition (at your 
cost) before returning the Vehicle to us
Clause 6 said that BMW could end the agreement if any of the events listed in clause 7 were 
to occur and Mr J did not remedy them within the required period. The events listed in clause 
7 included a breach of clause 4.
BMWFSs records show that it wrote to Mr J on 5 June 2019 to say that it believed the car 
had been modified. It spoke to him on 11 June 2019, when he confirmed that he had 
changed the cars fascia and lowered the springs. He was told this was a breach of the hire 
purchase agreement and that Mr J would need to allow BMWFS to inspect the car. Mr J is 
also reported to have said that his business modifies cars to use them as promotional tools.  
On 12 June 2019 BMWFS issued a default notice. That notice said that Mr J was in breach 
of the terms of his agreement with BMWFS, although it didnt specify the breach. 
Nevertheless, Mr J responded on 20 June 2019 acknowledging that modifications had been 
made to the car  specifically, lowering the springs, adding wheel spacers and adding a rear 
carbon diffuser. He said the car had previously had the speed limiter removed, but that 
action had been reversed. Mr J said he had not been aware that such modifications were not 
allowed, but that he didnt think the changes he had made should affect his agreement with 
BMWFS.     
On 8 July 2019 BMWFS wrote to Mr J to say that it was ending the hire purchase 
agreement. It followed that two days later with an arrears notice, saying that Mr J owed the 
balance due under the agreement  more than £51,000. 
Mr J did not think that was fair and complained first to BMWFS and then to this service. One 
of our investigators considered what had happened but didnt believe that Mr J had been 
unfairly treated. Mr J, through his representative, didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J does not appear to dispute that he made some modifications to the car, and thats 
supported by evidence from his local dealer. He says however that he did not know that was 
not permitted and that the changes he made were not significant and could easily be 
reversed. 
In my view, however, clause 4(d) was clear that any modification needed consent; clauses 6 
and 7 set out the consequences of breach. I note too that, even if consent had been sought 
and given, clause 4(d) still required Mr J to return the car to its original state before returning 
it. In addition, the breach was not limited to altering the car. It included doing to without prior 
consent; that was not a breach that could be remedied, even by restoring the car to its 
original state. BMWFS declined to give retrospective consent and said that it would not have 
agreed to the changes if it had been asked to.
I note that the car has been returned to its original condition, but that does not appear to 
have happened until after the agreement had been terminated. In any event, the failure to 
seek and obtain consent was not a breach that could be remedied.
Both parties here have discussed at some length the effect of the modifications  for 
example, whether they would compromise safety, insurance or the cars warranty. I dont 
believe however thats relevant to clause 4(d), which prohibits any modification without 
consent. It doesnt for example allow minor modifications or changes which dont affect 
safety  the only changes allowed are those which have been approved by BMWFS.  
My final decision
For these reasons I dont believe that Mr J has been treated unfairly and I dont require BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited to do anything more to resolve his complaint. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my 
decision before 18 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman