DRN-2958651
The complaint
Mr P is complaining about the charges applied to a foreign currency exchange transaction by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
What happened
Mr P recently opened a bank account with HSBC. Before sending euros from overseas to 
the UK he called HSBC to check what terms and conditions would apply. 
Mr P says the HSBC representative told him that the exchange rate would be set at the time 
of the transfer so he couldnt fix an exchange rate in advance. He says he was told the 
actual exchange rate would be used. Mr P says he explicitly asked if any commission 
would be charged and was told that it wouldnt be. 
Mr P transferred the money on the basis of what he was told. But afterwards, he found out 
that the exchange rate used by HSBC was much higher than the published interbank 
exchange rate. He says this meant he received £1,174 less than he would have done if the 
interbank rate had been used. 
Mr P complained to HSBC. In response, they explained that their exchange rate is calculated 
using an average of the interbank buy and sell rates, with a retail margin applied. HSBC said 
Mr P had been given some incorrect information about the charges for receiving international 
payments  and about a different bank account that was suggested to him on the call. They 
apologised for this and for any misunderstanding that had taken place in relation to the 
exchange rates. They paid Mr P £100 to apologise.
Mr P remained unhappy so brought his complaint to us. He said if HSBC had told him on the 
phone what they wrote in response to his complaint he wouldnt have made the transfer with 
them  instead hed have used a different bank which applies a much lower rate of 
commission. Mr P thinks HSBC should refund the £1,174 he believes he lost out on. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. He said HSBC were 
entitled to set their own exchange rates. He said although it seemed there was a bit of 
confusion on the call between Mr P and HSBC, he didnt think HSBC had said theyd apply 
the interbank rate. And he thought, by referring to it as the rate theyd offer, it had been fairly 
clear that it would be an HSBC-calculated rate rather than the interbank rate. He also said 
that commission is normally seen as a separate fee to the exchange rate so thought the 
HSBC representative had been correct in saying thered be no commission on the 
transaction.
Mr P wasnt happy with our investigators view. He said HSBC didnt tell him that the rate 
they were offering would include commission, despite him asking explicitly. He added that 
the margin he was charged was excessive. And he said HSBCs offer of £100 suggested 
they were aware theyd made a mistake  but it wasnt enough to compensate him. Mr P 
suggested hed accept around half of the £1,174 hed lost. 
Because Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, it came to me. I listened to 
the phone call thats at the heart of this complaint and I felt HSBC could have been clearer in 
the call. I suggested to HSBC that they might want to increase their offer of compensation. 
HSBC offered an additional £250 (to make £350 total) but Mr P didnt accept this. 
I reviewed the complaint in full and issued a provisional decision on 28 July 2021. I said I 
thought HSBC should have done more in the phone call with Mr P and so should 
compensate him for his losses. In summary, I said:
Mr P had phoned HSBC to try to understand what the exchange rate might be, or at 
least, how it would be calculated.
Although Mr P came away from the call with the understanding that the interbank 
exchange rate would be used, I didnt think this was HSBCs fault. I thought the 
HSBC representative was clear that it would be an HSBC-provided rate rather than a 
published interbank rate.
It was clear from Mr Ps questions that he wanted to know how much the transaction 
would cost him. So although he was asked if there were any additional commissions 
and was told truthfully that there are no other commissions, I think the HSBC 
representative should have been more transparent and should have done more to 
explain that the exchange rate offered included an HSBC margin.
Towards the end of the call, the HSBC representative gave Mr P an indicative rate  
but this was potentially misleading as she gave him a rate for transferring sterling to 
euros when Mr P was looking to transfer euros to sterling. If the representative had 
given the euro to sterling rate instead, this may have prompted Mr P to realise he 
wouldnt be getting the exchange rate he was hoping for.
I thought if HSBC had done more to explain how the HSBC rate was calculated, Mr P 
would have used a different provider.
Id looked at the rates and typical margins offered by mainstream providers online 
and estimated that Mr P would have received around £730 more for his euros if hed 
used an alternative provider. So I thought HSBC should pay an additional £630 to 
Mr P to compensate him for his financial loss (and interest on this amount).
Mr P and HSBC both accepted my provisional decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any comments to change my view, my final decision is 
unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc need to pay an 
additional £630 to Mr P, together with simple interest at 8% from the date of the transfer to 
the date of settlement. 
If HSBC UK Bank Plc consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr P how much theyve taken off. They should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman