DRN-2685342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont extend a payment 
holiday on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have a mortgage secured on their home with NatWest. They run a business 
which has been significantly impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. They contacted 
NatWest in February 2020 as they werent going to be able to make their monthly payments. 
A payment arrangement was put in place for three months which would be recorded on their 
credit file. Under the arrangement NatWest agreed not to require payments to be made for 
three months.
In March 2020, the UK entered a nationwide lockdown due to the pandemic. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in late March in relation to borrowers 
who were unable to meet their mortgage payments due to the lockdown. This guidance 
meant that no payments would need to be made towards a customers mortgage for, initially 
three months, before this was extended to a six-month period. The interest due during this 
period would still need to be repaid, and this is something which would typically be added to 
the mortgage and repaid over the remaining term. This is why it was referred to by the FCA 
as a payment deferral rather than holiday. Although NatWest and Mr and Mrs T have 
referred to them as payment holidays, Ill be referring to payment deferrals throughout this 
decision.  
The payment deferrals were to be regarded by lenders as being taken in exceptional 
circumstances which meant that lenders shouldnt report them to a consumers credit file.
Mr and Mrs T contacted NatWest in June to ask for a further three months worth of payment 
deferrals. They found out they hadnt in fact been on a payment deferral but instead a 
payment arrangement as the FCA payment deferral guidance hadnt been released until late 
in March. Mr and Mrs T complained, and the payment deferral was back dated on Mr and 
Mrs Ts account to March. NatWest also extended this to August 2020. 
Following the six months of payment deferral, Mr and Mrs T were unable to resume 
payments. So, they contacted NatWest and asked for it to extend the payment deferral. 
NatWest explained that six months was the maximum it was able to offer under the FCA 
guidance. It said it could offer assistance such as a payment arrangement, but this would be 
reported on their credit file.
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with this and complained to NatWest. NatWest didnt uphold the 
complaint. So, Mr and Mrs T referred the complaint to us. Mr and Mrs T had, at this point, 
missed payments for September to November 2020, and whilst they managed to make a 
payment for December and February, they have missed their payments since. They are still 
not receiving enough income to pay their mortgage but believe things will be better from April 
2021. They say this has had a significant effect on their health and NatWest hasnt shown 
enough compassion or empathy. They want the missed payments to be removed from their 
credit file.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She explained that six months of 
payment deferrals was the maximum amount that NatWest was required to provide to Mr 
and Mrs T under the coronavirus guidance. She explained that whilst NatWest was required 
to continue provide Mr and Mrs T with other support after this, she thought it had done. And 
she explained that after the initial six months of payment deferrals, NatWest was required to 
report any missed payments to credit reference agencies. She didnt think NatWest had 
done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. They explained that they werent being paid by their customers 
and this was because the government wasnt allowing their customers to work due to the 
pandemic. They said that the governments job retention scheme had been extended so 
their payment deferral should be. They explained that asking for a further six months of not 
having their missed payments reported wasnt unreasonable. They also said theyd been told 
by NatWest that a seven-month payment arrangement had been agreed at some point 
during a phone call with Mr T, and it hadnt honoured this.
As Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and make a final decision on their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T have made a number of points in relation to their complaint. They also asked 
that I listen to their calls theyve had with one of our ombudsman managers. I want to 
reassure Mr and Mrs T that Ive read everything theyve sent, and Ive listened to the calls 
they asked me to. Ive also listened to all of the calls between Mr T and NatWest which 
NatWest has been able to provide us. Its clear Mr and Mrs T feel very strongly about this 
matter. Theyve raised a number of points in detail. I may not address every point theyve 
made, nor respond in the detail in which theyve made their complaint to us. I mean no 
disrespect by this, it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead Ill be 
focussing on what I consider to be the crux of this complaint  whether NatWest should 
agree to a further payment deferral, and whether it should make any reports to their credit 
files. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs T, like many others, have had a very difficult time during the 
coronavirus pandemic. I am sorry to hear that, and Im also sorry to hear of the effect this 
has had on Mr Ts health. Ive thought about all of this when considering the complaint. 
When the coronavirus pandemic first hit, the FCA had to quickly put in place guidance for 
lenders in order to alleviate pressure on borrowers whose income had been affected by 
government restrictions. This allowed, initially three months worth of payment deferrals, and 
later on this was extended to a maximum of six months. And it said that, exceptionally, 
payment deferrals should not be recorded as missed payments on credit files.
NatWest has followed this FCA guidance in giving Mr and Mrs T a six-month payment 
deferral without it affecting their credit file. This guidance was issued for a limited time period 
due to unprecedented times following the start of the Coronavirus pandemic. 
When a borrower enters into a contract, such as a mortgage, they will consent to information 
being shared with credit referencing agencies. Then a lender is required to accurately report 
the status of a mortgage account and whether payments have been maintained and made 
on time  regardless of the reason for payments not being made. That means recording any missed payments  either as missed, or as missed by arrangement. It was only due to the 
FCA guidance that NatWest - as an exception - maintained Mr and Mrs Ts credit file as 
unaffected for the six-month payment deferral. 
A credit file is important, not only because it protects lenders from lending to customers who 
may not be able to maintain their loans, but it also protects borrowers from taking out debt 
they might not be able to manage. This kind of information sharing underpins the lending 
system in the UK. So, its reasonable that not recording the true position was only done for a 
limited period in truly exceptional circumstances as set out by the FCA guidance. Its not 
unreasonable that other lenders need to know about potential customers who have been 
affected in the medium and longer term by the coronavirus pandemic such as Mr and Mrs 
T.
Because the FCA guidance only allowed for a limited six-month period, its now right for 
NatWest to report the true status of their mortgage account. It was the FCA guidance which 
allowed lenders to not record these payment deferrals, and for a limited period. At this stage, 
the FCA expects lenders to once again report missed payments or payment deferrals to a 
borrowers credit file once they have benefited from the allowed six months deferral. I know 
Mr and Mrs T think the guidance is wrong or unfair. But the fact remains that this is the 
guidance which has been set by the FCA. Its not for me to change that guidance, and its 
something I have to take into account in this decision. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs T say about the fact that their missed payments are 
through no fault of their own, and its due to government restrictions that their business and 
the businesses they work with which owe them money have been affected. However, its 
often the case that people find themselves in financial difficulties due to circumstances 
outside of their control. Other examples of this may include ill health or redundancy. Lenders 
should still record missed payments as a result of this on their credit file. The FCA guidance 
was put in place for a limited period, but we are now beyond this. 
I understand Mr and Mrs T have spoken with the FCA regarding this. Obviously, I dont know 
what was said during these conversations. However, I have considered all relevant FCA 
guidance when reviewing this complaint. And the guidance the FCA has issued, as Ive 
explained, only allows for a six-month payment deferral. In fact, the later guidance also 
stated that further missed payment, even when an arrangement is in place with the lender, 
should be recorded as they normally wouldve been. And for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont think NatWest is required to provide a further payment deferral, without 
reporting it to Mr and Mrs Ts credit file, in addition to the six months it has already provided.  
Its important that information recorded on individuals credit files is accurate as future 
lending decisions by other businesses will be made on the basis of this. And they should be 
aware of whether Mr and Mrs T have been able to maintain their commitments during this 
time. 
Whilst I understand the impact this will have on Mr and Mrs T, its been over a year since the 
start of the Coronavirus pandemic, and they havent been able to maintain their monthly 
mortgage payments for some time now. I know Mr T believes his business is due to pick up 
soon. But there is no guarantee that this will be the case. So, I think its fair that NatWest 
records this on their credit file.
I also think its worth noting that Mr and Mrs T were having some financial difficulty prior to 
the country entering lockdown. Ive noted that they missed their mortgage payment in 
February, which was a month prior to the lockdown and the FCA introducing the payment 
deferral guidance. So, this always wouldve needed to have been reported on their credit file. 
Ive also seen evidence to suggest Mr T had entered into an Individual Voluntary Agreement. So, Im not persuaded that it was the coronavirus pandemic alone that was responsible for 
their financial difficulty. Although I do accept this has greatly contributed to it and they are in 
a worse position because of it. 
NatWest is required to provide Mr and Mrs T with further assistance and show them 
forbearance whilst they are struggling financially. But this doesnt mean not reporting missed 
payments on their credit file outside of the FCAs payment deferral guidance. NatWest has 
tried to help Mr and Mrs T since they took the maximum allowed six-month payment deferral. 
Its offered options such as payment arrangements, meaning the payments wouldnt need 
making for a time, but would need to be made at a later stage. But this would be reflected on 
their credit file which is something Mr and Mrs T understandably dont want. However, after 
the six-month payment deferral, as Ive explained, NatWest has a requirement to record 
missed payments on their credit file. Im satisfied NatWest has tried to assist Mr and Mrs T 
after their payment deferral expired. 
Lastly, Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ts point that they were told they would be given seven 
months of payment deferrals. Ive listened to all of the calls that NatWest has provided us. 
And I havent heard Mr T being told this. Its possible that NatWest hasnt been able to find 
every call it had with Mr T. However, the call logs NatWest has provided us do suggest we 
have copies of all of the calls. Its possible there was a misunderstanding, or that Mr and Mrs 
T were given incorrect information. But I cant know for sure. However, even if Mr T was told 
this, its most likely that this was a mistake. And whilst this mistake would clearly have 
caused confusion and upset to Mr and Mrs T once they found out it was incorrect. As 
explained, six months was the maximum payment deferral the FCA permitted without 
recording the true position on a credit file. So, whilst NatWest couldve offered a further 
month, it wouldve needed to be recorded on Mr and Mrs Ts credit file.
Whilst Mr and Mrs T are unlikely to accept what Ive said in my decision, I want to emphasise 
the importance of them engaging with NatWest further. Whilst they wont be able to get the 
payment deferral they want without the missed payments showing on their credit file, there is 
further support NatWest can consider. If Mr and Mrs T dont engage further with NatWest, 
its possible that it will seek more formal action in regard to the missed payments.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman