DRN-3284408
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D complain that, in or before 2001, and again in 2008, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-
sold them a packaged bank account (PBA). They are also unhappy that they werent later 
advised that their PBA was poor value for money. 
What happened
Lloyds full records dont go back all the way to when this bank account was first opened in 
1992. But Lloyds can see that by September 2001 the account had become a Select AVA 
account, which was a PBA. Before that it would have been a normal non-packaged account. 
In September 2001 the Select account would have cost £4 per month. It came with a 
package of benefits which included AA roadside breakdown, payment card protection, 90 
day purchase protection, extended warranty cover, and an interest and fee-free £50 
overdraft.
In 2005 the account changed to a Platinum AVA PBA. Lloyds has agreed it mis-sold that 
packaged account, and has paid compensation  so Im not looking at that account here. 
In January 2008 the account changed to a Premier Plus AVA PBA.   Lloyds says its 
records show that Mrs and Mr D applied for the change online. Mr D says he has no memory 
of that. 
The Premier account cost £25 per month. The package included worldwide family travel 
insurance, AA breakdown cover (including roadside assistance, relay, and home start) 
mobile phone insurance, Sentinel card protection, identity theft protection, home emergency 
cover, and a £500 interest free overdraft. 
In 2013 the account was transferred from Lloyds to TSB, when those two businesses 
demerged. Im not looking at anything that happened after that split.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint about 
the Select and Premier PBAs shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr D didnt agree, and so the 
matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr D say the PBAs were not good value for money.  So, bearing that in mind, Ive 
looked at the likely process that was followed when the two PBAs were set up. 
Lloyds has said it would have recommended the Select account in (or before) 2001 as 
being a good fit for Mr Ds needs. And I think its likely that it was a reasonable fit. The 
main feature was the AA breakdown cover, and Mr D was running a car and so could 
have made use of the breakdown cover. And the rest of the benefits were of a kind that 
anyone running a bank account and household could have potentially used. 
So the benefits were of potential use  and, in such a situation, its then up to the 
customer to decide whether those benefits (and the convenience or otherwise of the bank 
organising them into a package) are worth the monthly fee. 
Lloyds says the Premier account was arranged online. So that would be a process 
controlled by the customer, and it would have been for Mrs and Mr D to decide if they 
might make use of any of the offered package, and whether for them it was worth the 
cost. 
I dont have information about how full the information about the PBA was, during the 
online process. But its unlikely Mrs and Mr D would have made the change without being 
able to review basic information. It would seem they wanted to make the change in the 
account, and I think it unlikely that even full information would have changed that decision. 
I say this because its likely the monthly cost was set out, and there were several of the 
benefits that would have been useful to them. The records show that Mrs and Mr D did 
make claims under the car breakdown and home emergency, and there is evidence of 
foreign travel. So some of the main elements of the PBA were potentially useful for them. 
Mrs and Mr D are unhappy that, when they later went for reviews at the bank, no 
assessment was made of whether the PBA was good value for them. There wasnt a 
requirement on the bank to do this after the sales had been made. It would be up to Mrs 
and Mr D to review their finances and decide if they were getting good value for the things 
they were paying for. 
If Mrs and Mr D are saying that Lloyds actually misled them during the reviews, by saying 
it had looked into all their finances and assessed value for money, that would be a 
separate matter. Mrs and Mr D would need to complain about that to Lloyds  but there 
would need to be reasonable evidence that Lloyds had done this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs and Mr D s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman