DRN-3389038
The complaint
Ms P and Mr P complain about Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of a claim made under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms P and Mr P have a home insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes, which covers 
their buildings and contents, amongst other things.
They made a claim in May 2020 after a fire at their home, which very unfortunately caused 
substantial damage.
Ms P and Mr P took independent advice and were told that the cheaper and easier option 
would be to demolish what remained of their house and rebuild from scratch.
Great Lakes loss adjustors thought that repairing the house would be the more cost 
effective option.
Both Ms P and Mr P and Great Lakes then asked surveyors to cost both options  repair and 
rebuild.
There was some further discussion and review after Ms P and Mr P queried Great Lakes 
surveyors estimates. That resulted in Great Lakes significantly increasing their original 
estimates of the cost of repair.
Ms P and Mr Ps surveyor said it would cost around £685,000 to rebuild the house, and 
around £750,000 to repair it. 
After review, Great Lakes surveyor said it would cost around the same amount - £685,000  
to rebuild the house. But they felt repair would be significantly cheaper at around £630,000. 
Great Lakes therefore proposed to proceed to carry out repairs to the house. But it was clear 
that Ms P and Mr P didnt agree and thought rebuilding the house was the best option. 
Great Lakes suggested appointing an independent surveyor to provide detailed costings for 
both the repair and rebuild options. They say Ms P and Mr P refused that option. Ms P and 
Mr P say they were willing to accept an independent survey on certain conditions, which 
Great Lakes refused.
After further discussion, Great Lakes settled the claim on a cash basis, in December 2020.
They paid Ms P and Mr P up to the policy limit (£80,000) for contents. 
They paid for 18 months alternative accommodation costs. They also paid a disturbance 
allowance of £20 per person per day for the period (just over a month) before Ms P and Mr P 
moved into alternative accommodation. 
And they paid Ms P and Mr P £630,000 to cover the cost of repairs to their house, which was 
the estimated cost of those repairs according to their surveyor.
Before that, in September 2020, Ms P and Mr P had made a complaint to Great lakes about 
their handling of the claim. When Great Lakes didnt uphold that complaint, Ms P and Mr P 
brought it to us.
Ms P and Mr P are unhappy that Great Lakes didnt pay them the £685,000 cost of 
rebuilding their home from scratch. They want Great Lakes to pay them the extra £55,000 to 
make up the difference.
Theyre unhappy at the initial repair costings provided by Great Lakes surveyor, which later 
had to be significantly increased after theyd queried the calculations.
Given that their house was not repaired or rebuilt by the time Great Lakes stopped 
alternative accommodation payments, they think Great Lakes should have continued to pay 
for their alternative accommodation  up to the policy cash limit  rather then cut it off at 18 
months.
They say the disturbance allowance was insufficient given the disruption and upset that was 
caused when they had to move in with friends in the period before they moved into 
alternative accommodation.
They say the contents settlement should have been higher  it should have included an 
addition to the usual limit which the policy allows at around the time of birthdays or other 
such events.
They think Great Lakes should have acted more quickly to protect the damaged property 
from weather damage.
And they think Great Lakes: caused delays by not responding quickly to their 
communications; were guilty of poor communication at times; and failed to meet a 
commitment theyd given to provide comparable costs estimates for both the repair and 
rebuild options.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Great Lakes had done anything wrong.
Ms P and Mr P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about the fire at Ms P and Mr Ps house. 
That must have been a terrible experience for them to go through. I can understand how 
upsetting, frustrating and stressful things have been for them since the accident occurred.
Ill deal with the complaint points Ms P and Mr P have put to us in the order Ive set them out 
above.
The cash settlement for repair / rebuild 
Well before they made the cash settlement, Great Lakes had a qualified surveyors report 
which put the cost of repair of the house at around £630,000  which is what they paid Ms P 
and Mr P to settle this particular part of the claim.Theres a question about how that figure was reached  which Ill come to below. But 
essentially, the cost estimates were reviewed and increased, to include costs which were 
originally left out - for scaffolding, drying out and a contingency for possible damage to floors 
and partitions whilst the building had been left unprotected.
Once that revision had been carried out, it wasnt unreasonable for Great Lakes to presume 
they could rely on that qualified surveyors expert opinion about the cost of repairing the 
house.
However, that opinion was called into question when Ms P and Mr P provided an alternative 
experts view, which put the repair costs much higher. At that point, Great Lakes  in my 
view quite reasonably  took stock and accepted that they now had two professional 
opinions which varied quite significantly. 
And the differences were crucial in that they suggested different ways to resolve the claim  
one surveyor said repair was cheaper, the other said rebuild was the most cost effective 
option.
In circumstances such as these, where two experts disagree, we think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to offer to pay for an independent surveyor to provide a third 
estimate of costs, in an attempt to resolve the impasse caused by the difference of opinion 
between the insurers surveyor and the customers. 
Thats precisely what Great Lakes proposed in this case, offering to provide a list of qualified 
surveyors from which Ms P and Mr P could choose their preferred option.
Ms P and Mr P said they were willing to go down that route, but only on the proviso that the 
costs which had so far been agreed would not be revisited. In their own words, as they 
themselves expressed it to us, they wanted the independent surveyor only to look at the: 
 still several outstanding costs which [Great Lakes] refused to consider.
Great Lakes took that as a refusal to agree to the third surveyor inspection. They had 
expected the survey to set out very detailed and comprehensive costings based on an actual 
inspection of the property (rather than the desk reviews carried out by the previous 
surveyors). 
Ms P and Mr P argue that it was therefore Great Lakes who refused to engage the 
independent surveyor to provide a third estimate of repair / rebuild costs.
In my view, it wasnt unreasonable or unfair of Great Lakes to suggest that the independent 
surveyor should essentially start from scratch and produce their own estimate of all the costs 
of the repair and rebuild options. 
Thats what we would normally expect to happen in these circumstances. And I suspect it 
might be very difficult for a surveyor to do otherwise in practical terms. 
In essence, one existing opinion put the repair costs at £630,000 and the other said 
£750,000. Having a third opinion on the entirety of the repair costs would have allowed a 
much better informed and reliable decision to be made about the best way to resolve the 
issue and provide Ms P and Mr P with a home matching the one they lost.
In my view, the conditions Ms P and Mr P wanted to put on the proposed third survey would 
have fettered the surveyor  and would have done so in a way that could only benefit them. In that context, it wasnt unreasonable for Great Lakes to decide not to commission the 
proposed survey on Ms P and Mr Ps terms. 
In summary, Great Lakes proposed a fair and reasonable way to get a comprehensive and 
detailed third expert view that would inform the outcome of the claim. It was Ms P and Mr Ps 
unwillingness to go down that route that meant the third survey was never commissioned.
This brings me to the terms and conditions of Ms P and Mr Ps policy. What those terms say 
about the settlement of claims isnt in any dispute here.
In brief, the terms say that Great Lakes will decide whether a claim is settled by rebuilding, 
repairing, or replacing the property or by making a cash payment.
In this case, Great Lakes were clearly intending to carry out repairs  based on their 
surveyors opinion of the likely costs etc.
Its worth mentioning that if Ms P and Mr P had agreed to that, then all the risks associated 
with any increased costs  over and above those estimated by their surveyor  would have 
been carried by Great Lakes. 
Their responsibility would be to provide Ms P and Mr P with a home which matched the one 
they lost  and the costs of doing so would be borne by them (Great Lakes), whatever those 
costs turned out to be.
I can understand that Ms P and Mr P may have had reservations about the repair route, 
especially given what they were told by their advisers soon after the fire. But Im satisfied 
Great Lakes would likely have gone that way and repaired the property if Ms P and Mr P 
hadnt objected to that.
Once it became clear that, as things stood, Ms P and Mr P werent going to accept that 
option, then it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Great Lakes to enter into discussions with 
them about a cash settlement, as the best way forward to quickly resolve the impasse that 
had been reached.
And once a cash settlement was under discussion, it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Great 
Lakes to offer an amount which they thought  on the basis of their experts view  was 
sufficient to carry out effective repairs. 
Their responsibility under the terms of the policy is to indemnify Ms P and Mr P  to put them 
back in the position they were in before the insured event occurred. And the expert 
appointed by Great Lakes took the view that could be achieved by repair of the property, at a 
cost of £630,000. 
And here I come back again to the point that Great Lakes were willing to obtain a third  and 
independent  experts view, which may have caused them to revise their estimates of the 
cost of the repairs (increasing the cash settlement eventually offered) or indeed to decide 
that in fact rebuilding of the house was the better option.
Great Lakes were entitled  as per the terms of the policy  to decide that repair was the 
route to take. And therefore, to offer a cash settlement to repair the property rather than 
rebuild it. 
And it was Ms P and Mr Ps objection to a comprehensive new independent survey that 
effectively meant Great Lakes didnt have any further evidence which might have persuaded 
them to overturn their reliance on their own experts opinion.Im satisfied then, taking all of the evidence and information into account, that Great Lakes 
cash settlement offer for the buildings element of the claim  which Ms P and Mr P accepted 
at the time  wasnt in any way unfair or unreasonable given the information available to 
them at the time. 
The underestimated costs of repair set out in the first survey
The first report provided by Great Lakes surveyor  which Ms P and Mr P say was actually 
carried out by someone who wasnt yet fully qualified  was shown to be a fairly significant 
underestimate of the repair costs. 
Ms P and Mr P think this was unacceptable and they also say it shows that Great Lakes 
couldnt be trusted to handle the claim in an appropriate manner.
Whilst I can agree that it was unfortunate, to say the least, that some costs were missed out 
of the original estimate, I can see that Great Lakes (or their agents) put that right fairly swiftly 
and without any undue debate or discussion. 
Great Lakes didnt decide how to settle the claim  and didnt make their cash settlement 
offer  based on that original report. So, although it may have contained some errors, that 
had no significant impact on Ms P and Mr P.
It's not the role of our service to punish businesses for their mistakes or omissions. Our role 
is to ensure that any detrimental impact on customers as a result of any errors or omissions 
is addressed  that, as far as possible, the customer is put back in the position they would 
have been in had the error not been made. 
This particular error had no significant impact on Ms P and Mr P given that the report was 
corrected long before the claim was settled and without any argument.
The Alternative Accommodation payments
Again, theres no dispute here about the terms of the policy. These say, in essence, that 
Great Lakes will cover alternative accommodation costs up to the point at which either 12 
months have passed, or a limit specified in the policyholders schedule is reached. 
Ms P and Mr P moved into alternative accommodation which they say wasnt at the same 
standard as their house  and was some distance from it  because the relatively cheaper 
rent would have allowed them to claim alternative accommodation payments from Great 
Lakes for a greater portion of the period it might take to repair or rebuild their house  and 
certainly for longer than 12 months.
They say Great Lakes werent clear with them that the payments would cease after 12 
months in any case, not matter how (relatively) cheap the alternative accommodation was.
However, the policy terms are clear. And Ms P and Mr P knew (or should have known) what 
they were  and accepted them  when they bought the policy and/or renewed it.
As it turned out, Great Lakes covered alternative accommodation costs for 18 months, rather 
than the 12 months specified in the policy. And they provided a disturbance allowance for 
over a month immediately after the fire happened.
Although that didnt take Ms P and Mr P to the financial limit set out in the policy schedule, 
the terms are very clear that Great Lakes obligation ends after 12 months, whether or not the 
financial limits set out in the policy schedule have been met. Given that Great Lakes have extended that by a further six months, its impossible for me to 
conclude that theyve treated Ms P and Mr P unfairly when it comes to alternative 
accommodation costs.
The disturbance allowance
Ms P and Mr P spent just over a month after the fire staying with friends before they went 
into alternative accommodation.
Great Lakes have paid them a disturbance allowance of £20 each per day for that period. 
Ms P and Mr P say this isnt enough and doesnt reflect the turmoil, stress and upset they 
suffered during that period.
Disturbance allowance is usually paid at a rate of £10 per person per day and reflects the 
extra costs the individual might have if they arent able to live in their home in the normal 
way  for example, extra food costs if they cant cook for themselves or laundry costs if they 
dont have clothes washing facilities.
Its not intended to compensate an individual for their distress and inconvenience caused by 
the insured event itself. In short, Great Lakes didnt cause that event  and didnt cause the 
understandable and inevitable distress suffered by Ms P and Mr P as a result of it. And the 
policy isnt intended to compensate the customer for that distress.
Where actual additional costs cant be enumerated and evidenced  as in this case  the 
industry standard is to pay £10 per day per adult. Great Lakes have paid twice that amount 
to Ms P and Mr P. So, Im satisfied theyve acted fairly and reasonably  if not generously - 
towards Ms P and Mr P in paying the disturbance allowance they have.
The contents settlement
As part of the overall cash settlement, Great Lakes agreed to pay Ms P and Mr P the full 
amount allowed by the policys limits for contents lost or damaged in the fire (£80,000). This 
was without asking Ms P and Mr P to evidence their losses.
Ms P and Mr P say the policy terms allow for an additional amount to be paid, over and 
above the usual policy limit, around the time of birthdays and other such events, when there 
might be extra food and drink and/or gifts in the house.
They think Great Lakes should pay them the full £80,000 plus the extra allowance given that 
there was a birthday around the time of the fire. 
I have to take into account here the fact that the value of the contents damaged or lost in the 
fire was never evidenced or calculated in detail. Great Lakes essentially offered £80,00 for 
contents as part of the overall cash settlement and said that they wouldnt put Ms P and 
Mr P to proof of their losses.
Ms P and Mr P accepted that offer. And I think the most reasonable interpretation of that is 
that they were willing to take the £80,00 as full payment for all the contents in their home at 
the time of the fire, also accepting at the same time Great Lakes offer not to ask them  as 
they were entitled to do  to list the contents lost and provide proof of ownership (and value). 
Taking all of that into account, I dont think it would be fair now to ask Great Lakes to pay 
another £5,000 (the additional cover for birthdays) on top of the £80,000 they offered and 
Ms P and Mr P accepted.Protecting the property from poor weather
Ms P and Mr P say Great Lakes didnt act quickly enough to protect the property after the 
fire, for example by covering the site with a tin hat to prevent water ingress. They say this 
caused additional damage in the time after the fire, which would add to the costs of repair.
I can see from the evidence we have on file that when Great Lakes reviewed their estimated 
repair costs  arriving at the £630,000 figure they eventually paid to Ms P and Mr P for this 
element of the claim  they included contingencies for damage to floors and walls in the 
lower part of the property caused by weather ingress.
Ms P and Mr P have also sent us information recently which suggests theyre intending to 
rebuild their property rather than repair it. Theyre entitled to do that of course, but it does 
mean that any damage to the property after the fire, which may have increased the cost of 
repairs, has had no impact on Ms P and Mr P  who arent intending to repair the property.
I also note that when Great Lakes did suggest adding protection to the property  albeit a 
little while after the fire  Ms P and Mr P said they didnt think it was necessary at that point. 
This may have been because any increase in the repair costs due to on-going damage 
would have tipped the financial calculations in favour of rebuilding rather than repairing the 
house.
Delays, poor communication and failed commitments
I cant see on file any evidence of significant failures in communication on the part of Great 
Lakes or their agents. I think their position has always been reasonably clear to Ms P and 
Mr P  its just that at times, they didnt agree with it  and that led to further debate and 
delay.
There may have been short delays in some responses to Ms P and Mr P at times. But 
looking at the bigger picture, Great Lakes carried out surveys at the house soon after the 
fire. And they responded reasonably quickly when questions were raised about their experts 
reports  and corrected any errors.
In short, this was a complex claim. It also involved a significant and quite difficult 
disagreement about the best way to proceed, which was not  and could not have been - 
easily resolved. 
Nonetheless, a cash settlement was paid within seven months or so of the insured event. In 
the context, given the number of surveys carried out and the on-going discussions and 
debates, Im satisfied thats not an unreasonable delay in the settling of the claim.
Ms P and Mr P have also said Great Lakes failed to deliver on a commitment theyd given to 
have detailed costs set out of both the repair and rebuild options. They say the reports they 
received went into some detail on the costs of the repair option but had scant information or 
detail about the rebuild costs.
Whilst I can see Ms P and Mr Ps point, I again dont think this had any impact on them in 
terms of the outcome of the claim. 
Its debatable what level of detail was expected  or promised  on the rebuild option in 
Great Lakes surveyors report. But ultimately both surveyors  Great Lakes and Ms P and 
Mr Ps - agreed that the cost of rebuilding the property would be around £685,000. So, whatever the level of detail in Great Lakes surveyors report, its fair to say its 
reasonably accurate on the costs of the rebuild  at least according to Ms P and Mr Ps own 
surveyors estimates.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms P and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman