DRN-1817231
The complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) rejecting her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s. 75). 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms C acquired a used car using her Halifax credit card. In certain circumstances, a 
borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit 
provider if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of 
goods or services. 
For a claim to be eligible the cost of the goods must be between £100 and £30,000 
and there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in place. The car cost 
£5,300 and Ms C is the debtor, Halifax the creditor and the dealer the supplier. 
Ms C says that there was a breach of contract because the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory standard and the warranty was mis-sold as this didnt cover the issues 
the car experienced. 
When Ms C acquired the car, it was over eight years old and had been driven over 
85,000 miles, therefore it would be expected that there would be some wear and 
tear. It is also possible with a car of Ms Cs age and mileage that issues can arise 
shortly after acquisition even if they werent present at the point of supply. Ms C said 
she shouldnt have experienced the number of issues she did in the first few months. 
I have looked at the issues Ms C has reported and the diagnostics reports. Ms C 
raised an issue with a tyre the month after acquisition and this was refunded 
(although I note Ms Cs comments about the work involved in getting the refund). The 
next relevant issue was the corroded brake pipe that was noted in the February 2019 
MOT. Ms C had had the car for around six months at this time and the car had 
passed its previous MOT. I note the comment about the pipe being excessively 
corroded but I find that this is more likely than not due to wear and tear given the 
cars age and mileage.
In March 2019, glow plugs and coils needed replacing and in April 2019, a 
diagnostics report showed the injectors needed replacing and these had caused 
issues with the spark plugs. The other items identified at this time were to do with the 
brakes (pads, discs and sensor) wipers and tyres. I understand how upsetting it must 
have been for Ms C to have to pay for several repairs within the first few months of 
having the car. However, I agree that the issues raised appear to be linked to wear 
and tear. The car passed a MOT in February 2019, after Ms C had had the car for six 
months and had the brakes, tyres or wipers been an issue at that time then they 
would have been raised. The injectors can also fail at the mileage of Ms Cs car and 
without warning and so without further evidence to show that the issues were due to 
faults present at the point of supply, I find it reasonable that Halifax declined Ms Cs 
claim regarding the quality of the car.
Ms C also said that the warranty was misrepresented because it didnt cover the 
issue given the age and mileage of her car. I have looked at the warranty information 
provided, and this sets out what would be covered as well as what wasnt included. I 
have nothing to show that Ms C was provided any other information which would 
suggest the warranty was misrepresented. I can understand why Ms C is upset that 
the issues her car has experienced havent been covered by the warranty but based 
on the evidence I have seen, I have nothing to show that the warranty was 
misrepresented to Ms C.
Overall, I do not find that the information provided shows there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation and so I do not find I can say Halifax did anything 
wrong by declining Ms Cs s. 75 claim.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman