DRN-2339977
The complaint
Mr D and Mr K complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined their claim under 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Mr K held an annual travel insurance policy with AXA. Theyd booked a trip abroad 
which included long-haul flights from the UK, as well as internal flights within their destination 
country. Before their trip began, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised 
against non-essential travel to their destination country.
Mr D and Mr K cancelled their trip. And they were mostly able to obtain refunds directly from 
the providers. However, the airline providing the internal flights theyd booked in their 
destination country, offered them a voucher rather than a cash refund. 
Mr D and Mr K made a claim against their travel insurance policy for the cost of the internal 
flights. However AXA declined the claim on the basis that theyd been offered a voucher. 
Mr D and Mr K complained to AXA about its decision. AXA said the policy didnt provide 
cover for recoverable losses, and as the airline had provided a voucher, there had been no 
financial loss. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr D and Mr K brought their complaint to this service. And 
the case was passed to me for a decision. 
Mr D and Mr K have since been back in touch with the airline at my request. And Ive seen 
an email from the airline, which confirms the voucher has now been extended to September 
2022.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, and in summary I said:
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks. 
The relevant documentation
Id considered the policy terms and conditions and the IPID in this case. 
Mr D and Mr K ultimately cancelled their trip because the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO) advised against all but essential travel to their intended destination. This isnt one of 
the specific, listed insured events for which cancellation cover is provided under the policy. 
This means Mr D and Mr Ks claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their 
policy. 
However, having taken into account industry guidelines and the relevant law, I didnt think it 
was fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Mr D and Mr K to have no cover when they 
had to cancel their holiday. And I went on to explain why. 
Within the general policy exclusions, under the section What is not covered on page 14, 
the policy states the following. 
13. Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from 
which you are travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel (other than 
claims arising from you not being able to travel and use your booked accommodation 
or curtailing the trip before completion, as provided for under subsections 1. and 6 c). 
of What is covered under Section T  Travel disruption cover when operative).
And the IPID provides the following information on the second page, under the section 
headed Where am I covered?.
However you will not be covered for any claim caused by you choosing to travel to a 
country or region that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other 
regulatory body has advised against travel to.
This exclusion means, if Mr D and Mr K had travelled abroad, they would have been acting 
against FCO advice and they would have had no cover whatsoever under their policy. So, if 
the they had travelled, the policy would have been of no use to them. 
The effect of this exclusion is that Mr D and Mr K werent covered if they followed FCO 
advice and cancelled their trip, but they also had no cover if they travelled. 
I didnt think the exclusion of cover from claims arising from changes to FCO advice was 
clearly highlighted to the consumers in the IPID, and I didnt think this was easily 
understandable from the policy documents either. The cancellation section of cover doesnt 
list changes in FCO advice as an exclusion, so the consumer would need to read the terms 
and conditions of the policy from beginning to end to understand the full effect of the policy. I 
didnt think this fair or reasonable, and I thought a reasonable consumer would expect an 
exclusion like this to be brought to their attention in a more prominent and transparent way. Id taken into account that Mr D and Mr K could have purchased an optional additional cover 
option for travel disruption which would have offered some cover for a change in FCO 
guidance. But, Mr D and Mr K would have again had to cross refer this section of the policy 
with the other policy terms to understand this. And the relevant sections of the policy 
summary, on pages six and seven, of the terms and conditions also dont refer to changes in 
FCO guidance. 
Overall, I thought the way the documents were presented meant the combined effect of the 
policy wasnt clear to the consumer. The consumer had no cover at all when FCO advice 
changed and I think this created a significant imbalance between the rights of the consumer 
and the rights of the insurer. I didnt think this was fair and I didnt think it was likely the 
consumers would have bought the policy if they realised there would be no cover under the 
policy if FCO advice changed after the cover was purchased. 
So, I thought it would be fair and reasonable for the insurer to treat the claim as covered 
under the cancellation/curtailment section of the policy. And I said the insurer should 
therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And in 
this case, thats what AXA had done.
The airline voucher
I went on to consider the remaining cancellation terms of the policy. AXA had said Mr D and 
Mr K dont have a valid claim due to not having suffered a financial loss. And within the 
cancellation terms, the policy states We will pay you up to the amount shown in the 
schedule of benefits for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs. 
Mr D and Mr K were unable to use the internal flight theyd booked to use in their destination 
country, due to the cancellation of their international flights. And the airline provided them 
with a credit voucher with a monetary value equivalent to the amount theyd paid. So I 
thought it was fair for AXA to say Mr D and Mr K dont have any irrecoverable travel costs, 
and therefore havent suffered a financial loss. 
The voucher was valid for more than 12 months, and could be used in relation to any of the 
many routes the airline operates  not just the original booked route. Mr D and Mr K had 
originally booked to visit the country where the airline operates, and Id seen no evidence 
which persuaded me there was a reason they wouldnt book to visit that country again once 
travel restrictions are lifted. So I didnt think it unreasonable that AXA said it thought that Mr 
D and Mr K might be able to make use of the voucher. 
The airline later confirmed the voucher had been further extended by more than 12 months 
to September 2022. So overall, I was satisfied the terms of the voucher arent so restrictive 
that it would be unreasonable for Mr D and Mr K to accept it. And I said I didnt intend to 
direct AXA to pay the claim. 
I said I was aware that restrictions on travel were still in place. And if there comes a point at 
which Mr D and Mr K have been unable to use the voucher, and the airline no longer offers it 
and doesnt give them a refund, they should let AXA know. And in those circumstances, I 
said I would expect AXA to consider their claim again.  
The response to my provisional decision AXA made no comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr D and Mr K responded, and said they disagreed. In summary they made the following 
points: 
they didnt cancel their trip due to the change in FCO advice, they cancelled because 
their international flights were cancelled by the airline;
they didnt request or accept the airline voucher and they think this point has been 
ignored; 
their freedom of choice has not been recognised; 
they were pressurised by this service to find out if the airline was extending the 
voucher; 
they will not use the voucher, so the extension only benefits the insurer; and
its unreasonable to expect that they would book further international travel just to 
make use of the voucher. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered my provisional findings in light of the response. Ive thought about all 
that Mr D and Mr K have said, but Ill focus on the points that I think are central to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
 
Im aware Mr D and Mr Ks international return flights were cancelled. And because of the 
restrictions on travel, theyve said they were unable to book another international flight, so 
their trip had to be cancelled. Ultimately their trip didnt go ahead because of the restrictions 
on travel at the time. So I dont think whether Mr D and Mr K cancelled, or their airline 
cancelled the international flights, makes a difference to the outcome here.   
Mr D and Mr Ks travel insurance policy provides cover for irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs. So for their claim to be paid, Mr D and Mr K need to evidence they 
have made an irrecoverable loss. I asked them to find out if the airline would be extending 
the voucher when it expired, to establish whether or not there had been an irrecoverable 
loss. I appreciate that Mr D and Mr K feel that they were pressurised into getting more 
information about the voucher. However, our service has an investigative remit and needs to 
be fair to both parties. I considered it relevant to understand the updated position in relation 
to the terms of the voucher in order to decide what was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.  And as the airline confirmed the voucher had been extended by a 
considerable amount of time, I wasnt persuaded that the loss was irrecoverable. 
I note Mr D and Mr K didnt ask for the airline voucher, and they say theyve not accepted it. 
However that doesnt automatically mean their claim should be paid. Theyve said they have 
no intention of using the voucher within the timeframe, even if travel restrictions are lifted. 
And theyve said they wouldnt book international flights just to make use of the voucher. 
Mr D and Mr K had previously booked to travel to the country where the voucher is valid, and 
were intending to take an internal flight while they were there. Ive not been made aware of 
any reasons as to why they wouldnt book similar travel again when restrictions are lifted, aside from their personal choice. Mr D and Mr K have said they should have the freedom to 
choose where to travel. However, disinclination to travel is not something their policy covers. 
So it would be unfair for me to direct the insurer to pay the claim because theyd now prefer 
not to travel, or to travel to a different destination. 
The points Mr D and Mr K raised havent changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman