DRN-1886806
The complaint
Mr B complains that he has been incorrectly linked to debts by Lowell Financial Ltd. Mr B 
says the debts arent his and Lowells actions have impacted his credit file.
What happened
In July 2016 Lowell Portfolio I Ltd purchased a debt from a credit card company and 
appointed Lowell to collect it. Lowell searched for the borrower and found Mr Bs details. 
Lowell wrote to Mr B on 16 May 2017 and asked for contact if he wasnt the owner of the 
debt. 
On 30 August 2017, Mr B contacted Lowell and advised he wasnt the borrower and had 
never lived at the address where the debt was registered. Lowell agreed to stop contacting 
Mr B about the debt. 
Last year, Mr B complained about links on his credit file in relation to debts held by Lowell. 
Lowell responded on 4 January 2020 and apologised for contacting Mr B. It agreed that his 
address should have been noted so that no further correspondence was sent to it after Mr B 
called in 2017. Lowell apologised and sent Mr B a cheque for £100. Lowell confirmed it 
wasnt responsible for any links between Mr B and the person of the same name on his 
credit file. Lowell said Mr B needed to contact the credit reference agencies to be 
disassociated. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He explained 
that we can only deal with complaints relating to the two credit card debts Mr B says hes 
linked to. The investigator said that Lowell had provided evidence to show it wasnt reporting 
a link between him and the defaulted accounts on Mr Bs credit file. The investigator said 
that the link may have been caused by the actions of another business. The investigator 
thought the £100 Lowell had sent Mr B was fair. 
Mr B asked to appeal. He said that due to the actions of Lowell, he was linked to someone 
elses debts and hasnt been able to obtain credit elsewhere for around three years. As Mr B 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by confirming the investigators point that, as a service, we can only look at 
complaints about certain issues. In this case, we can only look at Mr Bs complaints about 
the debts he says hes been linked to by Lowell in relation to the two credit card debts. We 
cant look at complaints about information reported in relation to utilities or mobile phones as 
they arent covered by our rules. My decision will only relate to the two credit card debts 
Lowell acquired. 
Lowell accepts it wrote to Mr B about the first credit card debt in 2017 and that it shouldnt 
have contacted him again about it. When Mr B complained last year Lowell agreed it had 
failed to update its records and add him to a do not contact list. Lowell apologised, made 
sure Mr Bs details were updated so no further information was mailed and sent him a 
cheque for £100. Im satisfied the £100 Lowell sent Mr B fairly reflects the impact of its errors 
on him. 
Lowell has sent us evidence to show Mr Bs address links on his credit file. And I can see 
there are links to the addresses where defaults have been reported in relation to the two 
credit card debts in question. Lowell says it isnt responsible for the way the addresses are 
linked on Mr Bs credit file. Ive looked at whether thats the case. 
Lowell contacted all the main credit reference agencies and asked for confirmation of 
whether it is reporting information that has caused a link between Mr B and the person of the 
same name. All the credit reference agencies responded to confirm Lowell isnt responsible 
for the links on Mr Bs credit file. Im satisfied that, whilst there does still appear to be a link 
between Mr B and the debts he has complained about, they werent caused by Lowell. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent found that Lowell is responsible for linking him with 
the debts in question on his credit file. 
As I havent found that Lowell is responsible for the links on Mr Bs credit file and Im 
satisfied it has dealt with this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman