DRN-2727639
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K) Limited. Hes 
unhappy because he thinks he was given unsuitable advice about his pension options in 
1995.
Mr K is represented in this complaint by a CMC.
What happened
In September 1995, Mr K was advised by a tied adviser of Sun Life to set up a Free
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. A plan commenced in September 
1995.
In 1997, Mr K took further advice from Sun Life. He was advised to increase the 
contributions into the FSAVC.
Mr K complained in 2019. He says that the FSAVC plan was mis-sold and he should
have been advised to purchase added years in his occupational pension scheme instead.
Initially Sun Life accepted that the advice was potentially unsuitable because it couldnt see 
evidence that added years and in house additional voluntary contribution (AVC) had been 
discussed during the sales process. Therefore, redress was offered based on the loss Mr K 
had suffered compared to his taking added years instead.
However, Sun Life then withdrew its initial offer of redress when it found evidence showing 
added years and AVCs were discussed in the 1997 sale. It offered Mr K £500 for any loss of 
expectation.
Mr K didnt accept, and the complaint was referred to this service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator, but she didnt think that it should be 
upheld. She wasnt satisfied that added years or AVCs had been discussed in 1995 but 
there was documentary evidence from the 1997 sale that suggested Mr K had been made 
aware of these options. She felt that the fact Mr K increased his contributions to the FSAVC 
in 1997 evidence that he probably wouldnt have acted differently if he had been made 
aware of the other options in 1995.
Mr K didnt agree. He said, via his representative:
Early retirement was a commonly used to sell FSAVCs at that time and rhetorical 
questions posed. The realistic premiums needed for an early retirement do not match 
a genuine desire to retire early.
The document that Sun Life is relying upon makes no mention of added years and Mr 
K has no record of receiving the information sheet.
The wider suitability of FSAVCs had to be considered.
The investigator didnt change her view. She restated that the adviser was a tied adviser and 
only had a responsibility to make Mr K aware of the other options. She was satisfied that he 
had been made aware of them in 1997 even if he hadnt in 1995.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. I dont uphold this complaint. These events took place around 
25 years ago and so I think any uncorroborated recollection must be treated with caution and 
where there is any conflict in evidence, more weight should be attached to contemporaneous 
documentary evidence.
Mr K was taking advice from a tied adviser. The obligations on a tied adviser have changed 
over the years, but at the time of both these sales the adviser was required to make Mr K 
aware of the availability of AVCs and that the charges were potentially lower than for 
FSAVCs. The adviser should also have made Mr K aware that added years may have been 
available, and that the employer may match or top-up the payments Mr K made to the in-
house options.
Mr Ks complaint is that this didnt happen, and with better advice he would have made 
different choices.
There is no evidence from the time of the 1995 sale that shows that any of this happened.
But for the 1997 sale, we have a leaflet which Sun Life says would have been given to Mr K. 
We also have a copy of the Reason Why letter from September 1997.
The leaflet is called, A comparison of In-house AVCs and Free-Standing AVCs. It says:
Charges on money purchase AVCs are usually significantly lower than on an FSAVC.
In some schemes AVCs can be used to buy an extra period of service in the pension 
scheme. These benefits are known as added years and will increase in value in line with
increases in earnings.
Employers will sometimes match any contributions paid into an AVC with extra
contributions into the main scheme.
The Reason Why letter dated 19 September 1997 says:
Having considered the options, including discussion regarding information obtained from
the NHS on the In-house AVC option, being aware of the generic differences, you have
decided to increase your contributions to your Lincoln Free Standing AVC, as this gives
you greater scope for investment and as you wish to retire at age 55 you will not fully
benefit from added years".
I understand that Mr K says that he doesnt recall this advice and that these documents 
arent with his papers. But Sun Life was under a regulatory obligation to provide a Reason 
Why letter, and I think the fact that there is a copy of this letter addressed to Mr K is reliable 
evidence that it was provided to him. Given that this letter was provided which mentioned 
AVCs and added years, I see no reason to doubt that the leaflet would also have been provided. And I think that the contemporaneous documents are better and more reliable 
evidence of what is most likely to have happened, and preferable to Mr Ks recollection of 
events given the passage of time.
So, based upon the evidence Ive considered and giving appropriate weight to the 
documentary evidence that is available, Im satisfied that its most likely that Mr K was made 
aware of the availability of AVCs and the fact that the charges were potentially lower than for 
FSAVCs. And also, that he was made aware that added years may have been available and 
that the employer may match or top-up the payments he made to the in-house options.
On balance, Im satisfied that the 1997 sale met the relevant requirements for the tied 
adviser.
Although the 1995 sale may not have met those requirements, Im not satisfied that made 
any difference to Mr Ks position. When he was given the required information in 1997, he 
selected the FSAVC option and therefore Im satisfied that if the 1995 sale had been 
compliant, he would most probably have made the same choice, and selected the FSAVC.
As the investigator said, the adviser was a tied adviser and wasnt required to advise on the 
suitability of the FSAVC in comparison to the other options, AVC and added-years. The 
adviser was under a duty to inform and make Mr K aware of the other options and Im 
satisfied that probably happened.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Its unfortunate that Sun Life changed its stance, but I think its 
offer of £500 for any loss of expectation Mr K has suffered is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman