DRN-2779511
The complaint
Mr B complains that Atlanta1 Insurance Services Limited applied charges when he cancelled 
his motor insurance policy after eight days on cover. 
What happened
Mr B wanted to cancel his policy after it had run for eight days. He sent Atlanta an email, but 
it wanted written confirmation of his personal details. It took a further nine days to cancel the 
policy. So Atlanta then applied the cancellation charges for cancellation after 14 days, as set 
out in its Terms of Business. Mr B thought this was unfair. Atlanta reduced its cancellation 
charge and backdated the insurers charge for time on cover to the date it first received the 
cancellation request. But Mr B remained unhappy and wanted a full refund. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Atlanta 
was entitled to apply the charges set out in its Terms of Business. These included a non-
refundable new business fee, a cancellation charge and the insurers charge for time on 
cover. After the complaint came to our service, Atlanta offered to reduce the cancellation 
charge from £50 to £25 (cancellation within 14 day charge). And he thought this was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr B replied that he thought Atlanta had made a mistake in charging him the fee for 
cancellation after 14 days. He thought he had nothing further to pay. Mr B asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration that hes been charged for his policy when the car hed 
insured wasnt running. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers 
acted in line with its Terms of Business and fairly and reasonably.
Mr B has provided us with the emails he sent to Atlanta requesting cancellation. The first one 
was sent to the wrong department. The second one, a day later and eight days after the 
policy started, was sent to the cancellations email address and it contained his name and the 
policy number. But Mr B said Atlanta then requested further details, a letter, then a signed 
and dated letter, and then a handwritten signed and dated letter to confirm the cancellation. 
Atlanta has explained that it requires written cancellations that contain the vehicle 
registration, the customers full name and address and a signature to ensure that its 
cancelling the policy with the customers consent. It also said it gave Mr B the option to 
provide this information over the telephone, but he declined this. 
I think its Atlantas commercial decision about how best to comply with data protection 
requirements and this isnt something Id usually comment on. But I think its requests to Mr B 
for information to verify his request were similar to others Ive seen and so I think they were 
fair and reasonable.
Atlanta said it didnt receive the cars registration number from Mr B until 16 days after the 
policy started. I can see that it responded to the first correctly addressed request for 
cancellation promptly. And then it chased Mr B for the correct information once and tried to 
call him without success until he provided the cars registration number and the policy was 
cancelled. So I think Atlanta didnt cause any delays in processing the cancellation. 
Ive been provided with two versions of Atlantas Terms of Business, one in its file and one 
that Mr B provided. Atlanta has said that the Terms had changed, but I cant see when this 
occurred. But I think Atlanta used the wrong version when Mr B cancelled. And so I think its 
fair for me to rely on the version that Mr B provided as this was the one he agreed to. 
These Terms of Business state that Atlanta charges a non-refundable new business fee of 
£40. In the section on Service Charges, theres a £25 fee for cancellation within 14 days. 
After 14 days, the section says Atlanta will charge £50. Mr B agreed to accept the Terms of 
Business when he took out his policy though Atlanta, so I think its fair for Atlanta to apply 
them. Its standard industry practice that Mr B should pay for his time on cover and so I think 
a pro-rata charge for this is fait and reasonable. 
Mr B thought he shouldnt be charged anything for cancellation within the cooling off 
period. But, as the investigator explained, this is in the case of credit agreements and Mr B 
didnt have a credit agreement with Atlanta. 
So I think Atlanta was entitled to charge Mr B its £40 new business charge, £50 cancellation 
fee and the insurers charge for time on cover if he cancelled after 14 days. As a gesture of 
goodwill, Atlanta offered to reduce its charge to £25 and it backdated the insurers charge for 
time on cover. So the delay in the cancellation, which I cant say was due to Atlanta, wont 
now affect what Mr B was charged. And Atlanta using the incorrect Terms of Business hasnt 
now disadvantaged Mr B.
Mr B paid a deposit of £28.67. The total charges due were £92.81, but they were reduced to 
£67.81. So Atlanta says Mr B owes it £39.14. I think its for Mr B to accept or reject this offer 
in settlement of his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman