DRN-3449641
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr M complain their mortgage was mis-sold by RCCF Ltd trading as Umbrella 
Finance and Protection. They say:
An interest only mortgage wasnt suitable because Mr M was only one year from his 
retirement age at the end of the mortgage term.
The adviser didnt go through a fact find process and took no evidence of income. 
The mortgage was set up on a self-certification basis.
They say the term, repayment method and the failure to establish affordability mean the 
mortgage was unsuitable.
What happened
In 2006 RCCF recommended that Mrs E and Mr M take an interest only mortgage for 
£272,000 plus fees, over a 12-year term. The reasons why letter, dated 29 November 2006 
shows that Mrs E and Mr M self-certified their income.
Mrs E and Mr M say that Mr M was self-employed at the time of the advice. They also say 
they missed no payments throughout the mortgage, but do not have the money to repay the 
outstanding balance now the mortgage term has ended. So, they say it would have been 
much better if theyd have been offered a repayment mortgage.
Mrs E and Mr M complained to RCCF in 2021, after the mortgage term ended. In its final 
response letter dated 23 September 2021, RCCF said it didnt mis-sell Mrs E and Mr Ms 
mortgage. It said the mortgage offer letter from the time shows a declared annual income of 
£87,000 and warned Mrs E and Mr M to call the lender if that was incorrect. A fact find 
document would have been completed but isnt now available due to the passage of time. 
But it has managed to retrieve a reasons why letter and a key facts of the mortgage 
document.
In its final response letter, RCCF also said the lender would have written to Mrs E and Mr M 
each year with mortgage statements, advising that they werent paying any capital. And, it 
said, the lender would have written to Mrs E and Mr M at regular intervals advising them to 
make arrangements to repay the capital by the end of the term.
Dissatisfied with RCCFs final response, Mrs E and Mr M asked us to consider their 
complaint. Our investigator didnt think Mrs E and Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He 
said based on Mrs E and Mr Ms objectives and financial circumstances at the time, he could 
not evidence that the mortgage was mis-sold. And he said he saw no evidence from the 
documents available from the time of the sale that the mortgage wasnt suitable for Mrs E 
and Mr Ms needs.
Mrs E and Mr M did not agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. They said they wanted to clarify that one of the reasons they felt the mortgage 
was unsuitable was because the term ended only one year before Mr Ms retirement, leaving 
them too little opportunity to repay the balance outstanding. Their complaint has now been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mrs E and Mr Ms complaint, Ive thought about whether what all parties have said 
and the documentation available from the time suggest the mortgage recommended was 
unsuitable, given Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the time. Ive also thought about whether 
the evidence suggests Mrs E and Mr M have lost out due to RCCFs recommendation.
Interest only and the term of the mortgage
Mrs E and Mr M say the mortgage ending approximately one year before Mr Ms retirement 
meant they werent in a position to repay it at that time. Ive seen that it is common industry 
practice to recommend a mortgage term that ends before the retirement age of the main 
earner on the mortgage. And that can often be right up to retirement where the time to 
retirement is less than usual mortgage terms (such as 25 years). But Mrs E and Mr Ms 
mortgage was on an interest only basis, so Ive thought about the term of the mortgage with 
that in mind.
As an interest only mortgage doesnt repay any of the capital throughout its term, the term 
doesnt dictate the amount of the contractual monthly payment. That means a longer term 
wouldnt be chosen to make the contractual monthly payment lower. As the mortgage was 
set up on an interest only basis, the contractual monthly payment was as low as it could be, 
assuming all other factors remained the same (such as interest rate). But it still would have 
been beneficial in terms of repayment of the capital by other means for the term to be as 
long as reasonably possible. By other means I mean making capital repayments 
throughout the term; the equity in the property increasing sufficiently to allow Mrs E and Mr 
M to downsize; or a separate investment to grow sufficiently to repay the mortgage at the 
end of the term.
Those were some of the options listed in RCCFs reasons why letter dated 29 November 
2006. A reasons why letter outlines to the borrower why a particular recommendation has 
been made by a mortgage broker or a lender. Id expect that a borrower reads that 
document carefully and discusses any aspects of it they dont understand with the broker or 
lender. In this case the reasons why letter confirmed Mrs E and Mr M wanted an interest 
only mortgage and said they intended to repay the mortgage by one or a combination of six 
options listed  three of which Ive mentioned above. 
As I think its a reasonable expectation for borrowers to read the reasons why letter 
carefully, I think Mrs E and Mr M should have known that they would have had to plan to do 
one or a combination of those options listed to repay their mortgage by the end of the term. 
They havent said theyve done so, and they havent said that they queried the 
recommendation at the time of the sale. I understand that theyre now in a position where 
they have to find the whole amount and dont know what to do, but I dont think that makes 
the recommendation unsuitable. I say that because, if theyd have planned as the reasons 
why letter indicated they intended to do, the mortgage would have operated as intended at 
the time of the advice. And if the term recommended was shorter that would have allowed 
them less time to plan in that regard.
Self-certificationMrs E and Mr M say RCCF didnt go through a factfinding process and took no evidence of 
income. RCCF hasnt been able to provide a copy of a fact find document and says thats 
because it was never stored in a digital format  other documentation it has been able to 
provide was stored in a digital format  and theres no requirement for it to retain 
documentation for more than six years. But it says a fact find was completed and its 
provided a copy of the form it would have used at that time to gather information about its 
customers.
RCCF has provided a copy of the mortgage offer. And, in its final response letter dated 23 
September 2021, pointed out that the mortgage offer confirmed Mrs E and Mr Ms declared 
income was £87,000. I cant see that Mrs E and Mr M have ever told us that they didnt 
receive a copy of their mortgage offer. That, again, is a document that I think it would be 
reasonable to expect them to read carefully before they proceeded with the mortgage. The 
offer also contained high profile warnings about the importance of the borrower ensuring the 
income declared was accurate. And, again, I havent seen that Mrs E and Mr M have said 
they ever queried the amount the offer said they declared as their income.
We asked Mrs E and Mr M for details of their income from the time of the recommendation 
and any evidence they have to support that. But, due to the passage of time they couldnt 
supply evidence and also havent said how much their annual income was. But they did 
confirm that Mr M was self-employed.
Around the time of the recommendation self-certification was a way of allowing potential 
borrowers  who may have found it difficult to provide proof of their income  a way to 
borrow up to the amount they could afford. That often applied to the self-employed. So, from 
what Mrs E and Mr M have told us, the self-certification route sounds like it may well have 
been an appropriate way for them to obtain the mortgage borrowing they wanted. I havent 
seen anything that would suggest that was unsuitable, given what theyve told us and what 
the available documentation says about their circumstances at the time.
Have Mrs E and Mr M lost out due to RCCFs recommendation?
Its clear that Mrs E and Mr M are in a difficult position because they now have to find the 
money to repay their outstanding mortgage balance. But Ive thought about whether theyre 
now in a worse position because of the recommendation given by RCCF.
I think its more likely than not that they approached RCCF for advice because they wanted 
to buy a property. They havent suggested that they were, in any way, forced into buying the 
property or that they had the means to do so other than to obtain a mortgage.
Mrs E and Mr M have said they made every payment on time, so I think its reasonable to 
conclude the mortgage was affordable. They havent said that, in making the mortgage 
payments, they had to borrow from elsewhere or that they got into financial difficulty.
I think its also more likely than not that their property has gone up in value substantially 
since the time they bought it. That means, should they need to sell the property to repay the 
mortgage  which was one of the possible repayment strategies the reasons why letter said 
theyd consider  they will have a substantial amount of money they wouldnt have otherwise 
had. 
If the recommendation had been to buy a less expensive property, that may not have suited 
their needs and the increase in value is unlikely to have been as great. Though that may 
have meant they could have obtained a repayment mortgage and wouldnt have had the 
outstanding balance to pay now. But it isnt possible for me to conclude they would have chosen to buy a smaller property if that had been presented as an option to them. And I 
dont know that it wasnt.
Even if there is an argument to say the correct advice was to tell them to rent, that was still 
likely to have been more expensive than the contractual monthly payments on an interest 
only mortgage for a comparable property. And they wouldnt have benefited from the 
increase in property values.
So, on balance, while I do appreciate the difficult position they are now in, I dont think Mrs E 
and Mr M have lost out due to RCCFs recommendation.
In summary 
  
Overall, I think the recommendation indicates that Mrs E and Mr M may have had difficulty 
proving their income and wanted to borrow to buy a specific property or as much as they 
could to allow them choice. The documentation from the time supports that and nothing Mrs 
E and Mr M have said makes me think that a repayment mortgage was necessarily 
affordable. RCCF recommended a mortgage that allowed them to obtain the amount 
borrowed and the repayment method made it as affordable as possible. And the 
documentation Ive seen does make it clear that the mortgage would need to be repaid by 
one or a combination of methods  none of which included a portion of the contractual 
monthly payment.
The mortgage term didnt run into Mr Ms retirement, though I understand their concerns that 
it ran close to it. But I think the term recommended gave them close to the maximum time 
available to make plans to repay the mortgage. I dont think RCCF are at fault for Mrs E and 
Mr Ms failure to make those plans. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs E and Mr M would have chosen a different 
option had one been discussed at the time  assuming one wasnt  be that a smaller 
mortgage or the recommendation to rent. So, I dont think RCCFs recommendation was 
unsuitable for their needs at the time.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold Mrs E and Mr Ms complaint about RCCF Ltd trading as 
Umbrella Finance and Protection.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman