DRN-2483070
The complaint
Mrs T says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs T bought the policy over the phone in 2000, to cover a store card that shed had since 
1995. The PPI covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs T and AXA a provisional decision on 2 December 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
There isnt still a recording of the phone call where the PPI was sold, because of all the time 
thats passed. But from what weve seen of AXAs telephone sales process from the time, it 
looks like it wouldve been made clear that the policy was optional. And by that point, Mrs T 
had already had her store card for around four and a half years, so she wouldve known she 
didnt have to take out PPI to get approved for her card. Mrs T doesnt remember choosing 
PPI, but I think thats unsurprising given that buying insurance is not often memorable and 
this sale was two decades ago. So I think its most likely that AXA made Mrs T aware she 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can 
completely understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs T enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs T about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like Mrs T was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The 
policy wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and offered her more comprehensive 
cover, especially for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay or ran 
out. So the policy could have been useful for Mrs T in case something went wrong. And the 
PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs T could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off 
taking it out.
Lastly, Ive thought about the rules surrounding the commission and profit share on PPI 
policies. But those rules only apply to lenders, and AXA were not the lender here, so Im 
afraid that issue isnt relevant in this case against AXA.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
4 January 2021. But neither Mrs T nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman