The complaint
Mr R says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in April 1993. This provided cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. The PPI was amended in June 1999 and it then provided only 
unemployment cover.  
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I also said the complaint should 
be upheld, although I thought the amount of compensation should be less. So I wrote a 
provisional decision and invited comments. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but my current view is that I should uphold 
Mr Rs complaint in part. This is because I dont think Nationwide gave Mr R clear 
enough information about the policy, and I think this mattered in Mr Rs circumstances. 
Nationwide says that information concerning the PPI, including about restrictions on 
claiming as a result of an existing medical condition, would have been given to Mr R in 
a leaflet. But I dont know whether Mr R was actually given the leaflet and, if so, when; 
and even if he was, the wording about this restriction only appears towards the end of 
the leaflet  and, even then, it is several bullet points down within the relevant section. 
It wasnt to my mind clear and prominent. 
So I think its unlikely Mr R would have readily seen and understood how this 
restriction might apply to him, before he agreed to have the PPI. And Ive seen nothing 
to show that the exclusion was discussed with him, either. Mr Rs recollection is that 
he was given only vague information about the PPI and it was rather glossed over.
In my view this would have mattered to Mr R, because he suffered from two significant 
long-term medical conditions, and these would have made it harder for him to make a 
successful claim. From what Ive been told about his conditions, I think he wouldve felt 
it was likely he might want to make a claim relating to one or both of them at some 
point. But, if hed known about the restriction in the policy, hed have thought the PPI 
of less value than it at first appeared. 
DRN-1974869The matter is complicated by the fact PPI was compulsory for his particular mortgage. 
This was in return for being granted a fixed rate mortgage which, according to a leaflet 
at the time, also included a discount.  Nationwide was entitled to make PPI 
compulsory, as long as it made it clear it was doing so, as Mr R did have the choice of 
taking a different mortgage deal with Nationwide (or another lender) where PPI wasnt 
compulsory. But it still had to make its main terms and exclusions reasonably clear to 
him.
I dont know the details of likely cost comparisons, but I think its likely Mr R would 
have weighed up the cost of the PPI against the discount, along with the advantages 
or disadvantages of a fixed rate mortgage. But the limitation in the PPI would have 
affected that calculation, if hed known about it.
On balance, to my mind hed probably then have decided the overall deal wasnt worth 
it. And I dont think hed have taken the PPI. 
The adjudicator said that Nationwide should refund all the PPI payments that Mr R 
made. But I dont think thats fair. In 1999, Mr R agreed to the PPI being changed so 
that it covered him for unemployment only. So I dont think the restrictions on claiming 
for already-existing medical conditions would have affected him in the same way after 
that. As Ive explained, my current view is that in 1993 Mr R was mis-sold the PPI and 
I dont think hed have taken it at all, if hed been given proper information. In 1999 I 
dont think technically it was a fresh sale. But he did at that point apparently make a 
conscious choice that he wanted just unemployment cover, and so that choice was not 
unfairly influenced by any misunderstanding he had about what sickness cover the 
PPI would give him. So my current view is that he didnt lose out after the 1999 
amendment, and so Nationwide should refund only premiums (with interest) paid up 
until the PPI changed in 1999.
I realise that Mr R probably benefitted from a lower mortgage rate for a period from 
1993. But I dont think it is practical to take that into account, when calculating the 
amount of compensation Mr R should get. We cant know what, if any, other mortgage 
Mr R would have taken instead of the one he did take, and what the difference in costs 
would have been. I would also need information about the changes in variable 
mortgage rates during the period of Mr Rs fixed rate. As there would be a significant 
doubt about this data, in my view it is fair to give Mr R the benefit of any such doubts.
 
Mr R didnt send me further comments. Nationwide said it disagreed with me, and explained 
why. Ive addressed these points below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Nationwide pointed to a decision of another 
ombudsman, in a case involving a different customer. The ombudsman had concluded that 
Nationwide had made clear about the PPI being compulsory, and had decided the 
customers would have known they could go elsewhere for a mortgage, if they didnt want 
PPI. The ombudsman in that case said that better information, about the restrictions on 
claiming for existing medical conditions, wouldnt have led the customers to change their 
minds about taking PPI. Nationwide said that the fact a policy was compulsory should be the only the factor, aside 
from eligibility for the policy, in determining a case such as this. 
Ive thought about these points. However, my decision on this case did not hinge on whether 
Mr R had known the PPI was compulsory. Instead an important factor was whether, even if 
Mr R  knew it was compulsory, he would have decided not to take the PPI (and mortgage) if 
hed had better information  taking into account his medical conditions and his assessment 
of how likely he was to need to claim.
Ombudsmen must decide what is likely to be the fairest outcome, in the circumstances of 
each case. I dont know what the circumstances of that other case were. Also making such 
decisions can be finely balanced, and it isnt an exact science.  The compulsory nature of the 
PPI was an important factor that weighed against upholding the complaint, but the nature of 
Mr Rs medical conditions was another factor weighing in favour of upholding the case. My 
overall view was that it was most likely Mr R wouldnt have taken the PPI (and thus the 
mortgage) if hed been better informed about the limitations in the PPI that hed have to pay 
for. I think hed have looked for a better overall deal.  
Also in response to my provisional decision, Nationwide said it didnt agree with my view on 
whether Mr R was given enough clear and fair information. I acknowledge these points of 
disagreement, but they arent new information that Ive not already assessed when making 
my provisional decision. 
Nationwide also said the application form asks the customer to read the PPI leaflet before 
answering the questions on the form about PPI. I was aware of this when making my 
provisional decision. Also, I can see that the only question actually answered was whether 
Mr R wanted PPI, which has been ticked yes and the words *compulsory* handwritten 
beside it. I dont think the statement, about reading the leaflet, made it much more likely he 
would actually have been given the leaflet; nor that he would have been positively 
encouraged to read it, given that he was being told the PPI was compulsory. Nor does it 
affect my comments about clarity and prominence of the information in the leaflet. 
So Ive decided to confirm my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Nationwide should:
Pay Mr R the amount he paid each month for the PPI from April 1993, when he took 
out the policy, until June 1999 when it was amended. 
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2020.
 Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman