DRN-3844838
The complaint
Mr D complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited deleted trading credits from his 
account, without notice or his agreement.
He wants the credits re-applied to his account and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused.
What happened
Interactive Investor credited Mr Ds trading account with four trading credits of £7.99 each as 
compensation for a complaint he made. Interactive Investors trading credits have a set 
expiry date of 90 days. Mr D contacted Interactive Investor about these particular credits and 
asked for the expiry date to be extended. Interactive Investor explained it couldnt extend the 
date but that it would credit his account with four new trading credits, with a new 90-day 
expiry date.
On 24 June Mr D contacted Interactive Investor to say that he only had seven trading credits 
on his account, having previously had 11. He said Interactive Investor didnt provide an 
explanation for the missing credits.
In response to his complaint, Interactive Investor said that it had agreed to credit his account 
with four new trading credits to replace the four that expired on 23 June 2022. The new 
credits were applied to his account on 21 June, so before the existing ones expired. That 
meant that, for a short period of time, Mr D had 11 credits showing on his account. This 
reduced to seven following the 23 June expiry date.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Interactive Investor had acted in line with its terms, that Mr Ds account should have only had 
seven credits in June 2022, and that the new trading credits had a 90-day expiry date as 
stated in its terms and on Interactive Investors website.
Mr D didnt agree. He said, in summary, that the four credits were awarded to him as 
compensation and shouldnt have an expiry date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator, for the 
following reasons:
Following a previous complaint in or around March 2022, Mr D accepted Interactive 
Investors offer of four trading credits. There was nothing to suggest the credits wouldnt 
have an expiry date. Im satisfied that Interactive Investor made it reasonably clear that 
the credits would be valid for 90 days and that Mr D didnt query this at the time.
In May 2022, when Mr D contacted Interactive Investor about extending the expiry date, 
it agreed it would extend the date by a further 90 days, as a gesture of goodwill. It was 
only able to do this by giving Mr D four new trading credits around the time that the 
existing ones expired.
The new (replacement) credits showed on Mr Ds account on 21 June 2022, which was a 
few days before the existing ones expired. This meant that, for a short period, both 
credits were showing. Once the existing credits expired, Im satisfied the correct amount 
was showing on Mr Ds account  seven credits in total.
When the replacement credits were issued, Im satisfied that Interactive Investor told Mr 
D that they would expire in a further 90 days. I dont find theres any obligation on 
Interactive Investor to extend the expiry date, or to issue replacement credits.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont find Interactive Investor needs to credit Mr Ds 
account with any additional credits or compensate him for his time and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman