DRN-3664917
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) rejected his 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr R bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in November 2018. The 
purchase was funded by a ten-year loan from OCRF, which is therefore liable for the 
acts and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation.
Mr R says the supplier of the solar panels misrepresented them  in that it told him:
The system would cost £7,750.00. But the true cost including loan interest was
£12,022.42.
Mr R was told he would receive a tax-free six-month benefit of £601.08.
The loan would be self-funded by the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments, so the 
system would not cost him a penny.
OCRF responded to the claim, which it rejected. It said:
OCRF wasnt present at the time of sale and the supplier is no longer trading 
so cannot be asked for its comments on what was said.
The system has been generating electricity in line with the estimate given at the 
time of sale.
Mr R hasnt provided electricity bills to allow the electricity savings to be calculated.
Mr R was unhappy with this, so he referred a complaint to us. OCRF had eight weeks 
to resolve the complaint but was unable to do so.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr R, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a 
ten- year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of 
the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant 
law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 
75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr R paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, OCRF agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr R could claim against OCRF, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way 
he could have claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when 
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr R and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of OCRF.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an 
untrue statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which 
induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What Mr R was told
Mr R says he was told that the system would be self-funding because the FIT payments 
would cover the loan repayments. He says he was told that he would receive a tax-free 
six- month benefit of about £601.08.
I think it is likely that the benefits of the system wouldve been discussed. Otherwise, I 
doubt Mr R wouldve agreed to the purchase. Mr R appears to have a clear memory of 
having been told the system was self-funding and the specific amount hed receive.
Documentation
Ive looked at the documentation to see if it made clear that the system would not be self- 
funding. In order for Mr R to make an informed decision about the benefits of the panels 
in relation to the overall costs to him he needed to be able to easily compare the cost of 
the solar panel system to any benefit he may receive or was promised.
The sales contract contained basic details of the system, its estimated electricity 
generation per year (3,045 kWh), the price with and without Vat, the deposit (£0.00) and 
the final amount due (£7,750.00). It showed that finance was being used to pay the final 
amount.
However, it did not include any details about the loan costs or the benefits of the system. 
So, it didnt show the true cost to Mr R (including loan interest) or allow him to compare this 
to the benefits.
The loan agreement was a separate document, which showed the cash price of the 
system (£7,750.00), the amount of credit (£7,750.00), the total charge for credit 
(£4,272.42), the monthly repayment (£100.18) and the total amount payable (£12,022.42). 
So, it showed the full cost of the system but didnt show its benefits to allow an easy 
comparison.
There is a separate estimated returns document which sets out the year-one benefits of 
the system, which said that Mr R would receive a total year-one benefit (FIT payments 
and electricity savings) of £444.42.
While this differs from what Mr R was told, there is no reference to the cost of the system 
in this document. So, similarly to the other documents, I dont think it would have allowed 
Mr R to easily compare the true cost of the system to any benefit he may receive or that he had been promised.
Taking all of the above into account, I think the various documents provided to Mr R at the 
time of sale were presented in such a way that it was not easy for him to compare the 
likely benefits with the loan repayments. And it would have been difficult for him to make 
an informed decision without relying on what he was told by the supplier. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Mr D to have relied on what he was told by the representative when he 
agreed to enter into the contract.
Has Mr R suffered a loss?
Ive looked at Mr Rs FIT statements to check what payments Mr R has received. From 16 
March 2019 to 1 October 2016 the system generated 2,620 kWh of electricity. In total Mr 
R received FIT payments of £173.88. This covers just over a six-month period including 
the summer months when the system would generate the most electricity. It is clear that 
Mr R has received payments that were much less than he was promised at the time of 
sale.
I dont have evidence of Mr Rs electricity savings following installation of the system. But 
a reasonable estimate of his electricity savings would be about £250 in the first year. 
Bearing in mind the loan repayments amounted to about £1,028 per year, it is highly 
unlikely that  Mr R could have saved enough to cover his loan repayments. So, I think he 
has suffered a loss because of the supplier misrepresenting the benefits he would receive 
from the system. Because of this, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for OCRF to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr R from the 
solar panels over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr R is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then OCRF needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr R by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require OCRF 
to restructure Mr Rs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr R in a position where 
the solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date 
of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr R have the following options as to how 
he would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and 
he continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing 
early,B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan 
and he pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr R accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option 
he wishes to accept.
If Mr R has settled the loan, OCRF should pay him the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mr R has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, 
to OCRF and OCRF should:
1. Refund the extra Mr R paid each month with the OCRF loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr R paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr R first 
contacted OCRF that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that OCRF 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman