DRN-3330432
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with how Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) reported her account to the 
credit reference agencies (CRA).
What happened
On 4 July 2017, Mrs G was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMF. She paid a deposit of £1,500, and the agreement was for £17,195 over 85 months; 
with 84 monthly repayments of £289.10 and a final repayment of £439.10.
Between September 2017 and February 2020, the direct debit for Mrs Gs payments failed 
on a number of occasions. And she had to make manual payments to BMF to keep the 
account up to date. The direct debit was cancelled in February 2020, and Mrs G started 
making all the payments manually from this point.
The payment for April 2020 wasnt paid until May 2020, and in July 2020 Mrs G spoke to 
BMF, to let them know shed had a change in employment in February 2020, and that she 
was still catching up. The payments for July, August and September 2020 were missed, but 
Mrs G cleared these arrears in October 2020 and maintained the agreed payments from this 
point onwards.
Mrs G complained to BMF that theyd recorded the missed payments as arrears with the 
CRAs. And she said shed missed the payments because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) 
pandemic, so they shouldnt be recorded as arrears. But BMF said Mrs G had never told 
them her income had been impacted by Covid-19. And they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong. Mrs G was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had issued guidance saying how 
financial businesses should support customers who were financially impacted by Covid-19. 
And, if Mrs G had told BMF that her income was affected by Covid-19, then hed expect 
them to follow this guidance. But hed seen nothing to show Mrs G ever told BMF that her 
financial difficulties resulted from Covid-19, and instead shed said they were because of a 
change in employment in February 2020.
Because of this, he thought BMF had acted reasonably by dealing with the missed payments 
as they did. And, because BMF have an obligation to ensure accurate information was 
reported to the CRAs, he also thought theyd acted reasonably by doing this. And he didnt 
think BMF needed to do anything more.
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator. She said shed made BMF aware that shed lost her 
job in Spain and had to fund returning to the UK. And she cleared the arrears as soon as she 
was able to once she was working again. So, shes asked that an ombudsman listen to the 
calls she had with BMF before making a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs G was supplied with a car under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement which means were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The FCA published guidance on 24 April 2020, as to how regulated firms that issue 
regulated motor finance agreements should provide exceptional and immediate support to 
customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of the coronavirus. It 
is intended to provide help to those who might be having temporary difficulty in making their 
finance or leasing payments due to a loss of or reduction in their income.
Based on the evidence Ive seen; Im satisfied that this guidance applied to the agreement 
Mrs G had with BMF.
The guidance said that a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months 
unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers 
interests to do so. The guidance also makes it clear that customers should be able to 
request a payment deferral at any point after the guidance comes into force and that a 
payment deferral shouldnt be considered as arrears, so shouldnt be reported as such. The 
guidance came into force on 27 April 2020.
In her complaint to us Mrs G explained that her contract as a teacher in an international 
school in Spain hadnt been renewed in February 2020. While she said this was because of 
the pandemic, she also said that, when she spoke to BMF, she didnt specify COVID 19 as 
my issue. Because Mrs G has made it clear that she didnt tell BMF that her income had 
been affected by Covid-19, I dont think I need to listen to the calls she had with them  as 
Mrs G didnt mention Covid-19 to BMF, the calls wont show that BMF were aware that 
Covid-19 was the underlying issue.
The FCA guidance required BMF to consider a request for a payment deferral if a customer 
asked for one. But Mrs G didnt ask for this assistance. And I wouldnt expect BMF to 
assume the reasons why Mrs Gs contract wasnt extended and take action she hadnt asked 
them to take. Given this, Im satisfied that BMF acted reasonably by not treating the missed 
payments as a payment deferral.
BMF have a responsibility to ensure that the information reported by the CRAs is fair, 
accurate, consistent, complete, and up to date. They didnt need to record a Covid-19 
payment deferral as arrears, but any other missed payments would need to be recorded this 
way. And, because Mrs G didnt request a payment deferral, then BMF have acted 
reasonably by recording the missed payment as arrears on Mrs Gs credit file. So, while I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs G, I wont be asking BMF to make any 
changes to the information theyve recorded.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint about Blue Motor Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman