DRN-1964682
The complaint
Mr C complains that Whichdeal Ltd mis-sold him car.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr C acquired a car costing £17,950 funded by a deposit and the balance 
by a hire purchase agreement. It turns out the original invoice was incorrect and Mr C paid a 
total of £8,427.81 as a deposit. Of this £6,477.81 was used to clear his existing finance with 
Whichdeal and £1,950 was used as a deposit on his new car. The car was some nine years 
and old and was sold with a mileage of 70,000.
Mr C has explained that Whichdeal chose a car for him and he had to collect it from the 
dealer. He knew nothing about the car and says he was told the finance company would 
carry out all the checks for him and if everything was satisfactory the deal would go through.
He says he wasn't given the vehicle invoice, but he did sign a document on the day he 
picked the car up  he said it had small writing on it which confirmed the mileage wasn't 
guaranteed, but he said it was crossed out and the supplying dealership didn't tell him this 
nor did the finance provider know about this either.
Two years later Mr C decided he wished to sell the car and the dealer offered him £5,000. 
He then discovered more about the cars history. It had done considerably more miles than 
he had been told. It is hard to tell the actual mileage, but as of April 2012 the service 
schedule shows it had covered 110,249 miles. Mr C says he was told it was used as a hire 
car and the mileage was likely to have been in excess of 200,000.
He voluntarily terminated his agreement which left him with a shortfall of £2,500. Whichdeal 
rejected his complaint and said he had driven the car for 15,000 miles and had the 
opportunity to have discovered the issue before he wanted to sell the car. 
It didnt disagree that the car had been clocked, but it said that the invoice carried a 
disclaimer which said the mileage could not be guaranteed. It also noted he had been having 
trouble maintaining payments and he could have raised the problem earlier. It added that the 
car had bene returned in a poor condition and had been modified.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She noted that the discrepancy in the mileage 
was substantial and believed there had been clear misrepresentation. She didnt believe the 
disclaimer entitled the seller to avoid the consequence of clearly understating the mileage so 
significantly.
Mr C agreed, but Whichdeal, despite saying it would respond, has failed to do so and some 
seven months have elapsed since our investigator issued her view letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider this matter to be relatively straightforward. Our investigator set out the facts in 
more detail than I have, but both parties can be assured that I have read all the material 
submitted to this service. That makes it clear that the car had covered considerably more 
miles than claimed by the dealer. 
Whichdeal has said that the documents contained a MOT certificate which showed the 
mileage was greater than recorded and suggested Mr C should have picked up this fact. The 
reality is that the dealer should have checked properly and ensured it told Mr C that the 
mileage shown on the odometer was not correct. I have not checked if the price reflected the 
correct mileage, but I suspect it did not. Given the car was misrepresented Mr C was entitled 
to reject it.
The business has suggested he lost this right because he didnt discover the discrepancy 
sooner. I see no merit in that argument. He had no reason to think the car had been clocked 
and no reason to query the mileage. Under the proposed redress he will have paid for his 
use of the car and so the delay doesnt cause the business any material loss. 
It has also said the car was returned in a poor condition and it had been modified. I have 
seen no convincing evidence that is the case, but I see it is still on the road and passed its 
MOT in July 2020 with an incorrect recorded mileage. That suggests it wasnt in such a poor 
condition.
Putting things right
In summary the car was misrepresented and Mr C was entitled to reject it and he should be 
put back in the position he would have been had he been allowed to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Whichdeal Ltd to:
cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
waive the outstanding balance and refund any payments Mr C has made since 
voluntary terminating his agreement along with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement
refund Mr C's deposit of £1,950 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement
pay £350 to Mr C for any trouble and upset caused as a result of the mileage 
discrepancy and for the affect this has had on his mental health and financial 
situation
remove any adverse information from Mr C's credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman