DRN-3689896
The complaint
Miss T complains Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo Loans) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In November 2019 Miss T applied for, and was given a loan for £2,000, which was repayable
over a period of 12 months. The repayments were around £255 a month. The reason given
for taking out the loan was debt consolidation. This loan was paid off early in July 2020.
In September 2020 Miss T applied for, and was given a second loan for £1,000, which was
repayable over a period of 18 months. The repayments were around £88 a month. Again the
reason given for taking out the loan was debt consolidation.
Miss T says Bamboo shouldnt have given her the loans because they werent affordable.
Bamboo says it did check whether the loans were affordable, and based on those checks,
Miss T had enough disposable income to make the loan repayments.
I issued a provisional decision where I explained why I didnt think Miss Ts complaint should 
be upheld. I said:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ts complaint.
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss T irresponsibly.
It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss T
would be able to pay the loans in a sustainable way.
Loan 1
Bamboo did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. And I agree with the
investigator that given the amount Miss T was borrowing, the information she had provided
about her income, together with the information on her credit file, Bamboos checks were
good enough.
Bamboo asked for some information from Miss T before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of her income and verified this with a third party. It used third party data to estimate
her non-discretionary expenditure. It also reviewed her credit file to understand her credit
history and existing commitments. From these checks combined Bamboo concluded that
Miss T had enough monthly disposable income to afford the loan.
Miss T told Bamboo that her net monthly income (her income after deductions) was around
£1,300 and that she was paying £200 a month in rent. Bamboo estimated her other 
nondiscretionary expenditure at around £200. Miss Ts credit file showed she had around 
£4,000 of debt in total and she was up to date with her repayments on all accounts. Her 
monthly repayments towards her existing loans totalled around £460 and she had a credit 
card with a balance of £175.
There was nothing in the information Bamboo had as a result of its checks, and that it knew
about Miss Ts circumstances, that should have led it to question anything Miss T had told it
or undertake further checks. Based on everything, there was little to suggest Miss T would
be unable to sustainably repay the new loan. So I dont currently think Bamboo did anything
wrong by giving Miss T the first loan.
Loan 2
Bamboo did similar checks when it gave Miss T the second loan, which given how much she
was borrowing, do seem reasonable and proportionate. From these checks Bamboo
concluded that Miss T would be able to pay the loans in a sustainable way.
Miss T told Bamboo that her net monthly income was now around £1,380 and that she was
paying £100 a month in rent. Bamboo estimated her other non-discretionary expenditure
was still around £200. Miss Ts credit file showed she now had around £7,750 of debt in total
and she was up to date with her repayments on all accounts. Her monthly repayments
towards her existing loans totalled around £460 and she had a now had five open credit
cards with balances totalling around £3,175.
Our investigator thought that given Miss Ts increased indebtedness since she took out the
first loan, Bamboo should have done more checks to verify Miss Ts income and expenditure
to satisfy itself she could afford the repay the new loans. But while there are some indicators
that Miss Ts financial situation had worsened since she took out the first loan, I dont think
theres enough there for me to say Bamboo should have questioned the information it had
already gathered further.
The amount Miss T would be repaying was relatively small, the credit file shows no
significant signs she was struggling to repay her existing debts (such as arrears or defaults)
and her stated purpose of taking out the loan was to pay off some of that existing debt.
Based on this, as well as the other information Bamboo had, I dont think there was enough
for Bamboo to have any real concerns about whether Miss T would be able to sustainably
repay the loan shed applied for, such that it should have done further checks.
I appreciate we now know, due to the information the investigator gathered, that Miss T
possibly would have had difficulties in sustainably repaying the loan  mostly due to the fact
her actual net income appears to have been about £300 a month less than she told Bamboo
it was. But what I need to consider is whether it would have been reasonable and
proportionate for Bamboo to do further checks that might have identified this before it gave
Miss T the loan. I dont think it would have been.
So I currently dont think Bamboo did anything wrong by giving Miss T the second loan.
Both Miss T and Bamboo responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings set out above.
It follows that for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Bamboo did 
anything wrong by giving Miss T either of the loans it did.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman