DRN-1731700
The complaint
Miss H complains about the time it took for Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) to consider her income protection claim. 
What happened
Miss H is covered under her employers income protection scheme. The aim of the scheme 
is to pay an income in the event she cant work because of illness or injury. Miss Hs monthly 
benefit was set up as 50% of her salary, and the scheme had a deferred period of 26 weeks.
After stopping work on 3 December 2018, Miss H submitted a claim to L&G via her 
employer. Whilst Miss H was off work, she increased her rate of benefit to 75% of her salary. 
Miss H attempted a phased return to work in June 2019. L&G accepted the claim from the 
end of the deferred period, and agreed to pay partial benefit whilst Miss H was working on a 
phased basis. The claim was due to terminate on 21 July 2019. 
However, Miss H then stopped work again on 15 July 2019. L&G requested further medical 
evidence. Unhappy with the length of time L&G was taking to assess her claim, Miss H 
brought a complaint to this service. She also thought L&G ought to have paid her benefit 
based on 75% of her salary, rather than 50%.
Whilst the complaint was with this service, L&G decided to accept Miss Hs claim from the 
date she stopped work in July 2019. It paid her backdated benefit (paid at 50% of her salary) 
from 15 July 2019 to 31 December 2019. L&G told Miss H it intended to then suspend her 
claim as it wanted her to undergo cognitive testing. Miss H thought L&G should pay interest 
on the backdated benefit, but it refused. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She thought L&G was right 
to pay benefit at 50% of salary. She also thought L&G hadnt caused unnecessary delays in 
assessing the claim. However, she was of the view that L&G ought to pay interest at the rate 
of 8% on the backdated benefit. 
L&G didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since bringing her complaint to this service, Miss H has made a new complaint to L&G about 
its decision to suspend benefit. That will be considered by us under a separate complaint.
Time taken for L&G to assess the claim
For a claim to be payable, Miss H needed to show that she was incapacitated by way of 
illness or injury from performing the essential duties of her occupation from the date she 
stopped work and throughout the deferred period. The deferred period ended on 2 June 
2019. 
Miss H had surgery during the deferred period, and its apparent that she couldnt work at 
that time, or in the following few months whilst she recovered. However, she had arranged a 
phased return to work in June 2019, and her physio thought that seemed realistic. 
L&G agreed to accept the claim on a partial basis from the end of the deferred period to help 
with Miss Hs phased return. It advised her that the claim would end on 21 July 2019. 
Unfortunately, Miss H couldnt complete the phased return and stopped work again on 15 
July 2019. It was reasonable for L&G to establish why that was, so that it could consider a 
claim under the recurrent disablement cover. It requested up-to-date information from one of 
Miss Hs specialists, but the response was delayed. 
In September 2019, L&G received an occupational health report which supported that 
Miss H couldnt work. However, around the same time it received evidence from Miss Hs 
specialist which said that her condition had improved. Given the conflict of opinions, L&G 
sought the opinion of another of Miss Hs specialists. That seems to have been reasonable 
in the circumstances, though I do understand Miss Hs point that L&G could have asked that 
specialist for their opinion at the outset. But L&G didnt know that Miss Hs first treating 
specialists evidence wouldnt be supportive of her claim. I wouldnt have necessarily 
expected it to contact all of her specialists after being notified that shed stopped work again.
The further evidence was received in late 2019, and this supported that Miss H couldnt 
work. Soon after this, L&G accepted that Miss H couldnt work from July 2019 and so it paid 
backdated benefit from that date until 31 December 2019, when it suspended benefit 
(though I understand it then continued making payments on a goodwill basis until 31 August 
2020). 
Consequently, I agree with our investigator that, up to December 2019, L&G didnt cause 
unnecessary delays in considering the claim.
Rate of benefit
L&G has paid benefit at a rate of 50% of Miss Hs salary, but she thinks it ought to be 75%.
The policy says:
An insured member must be actively at work for any proposed increase in benefit on the 
day of that increase
Actively at work is defined in the policy as:
Means the employee is in full active employment, and physically and mentally able to 
perform all the duties associated with their normal job on the day the cover is due to start.
When Miss H applied to increase her benefit from 50% to 75%, she wasnt actively at work 
at that time. So when benefit became payable in June 2019, L&G only needed to base its 
benefit calculation using 50% of her salary.
Although Miss H then returned to work on a phased basis in June and July 2019 (which was 
after she increased the benefit rate to 75% of salary), she wasnt working on a full-time basis, and therefore wasnt carrying out all her duties. So she didnt meet the definition of 
actively at work at that time either. 
Though in any event, the policy states under recurrent disablement that the level of benefit 
will be at the same level that would have applied if the insured hadnt stopped being a 
disabled member (in other words, as if the member hadnt returned to work). So when 
benefit became payable from July 2019, L&G again only needed to pay 50% of Miss Hs 
salary.
Interest
Whilst Miss Hs complaint was with this service, she complained that L&G hadnt paid her 
interest on the backdated benefit. Our investigator considered her complaint about that as 
part of this complaint, and I see that L&G didnt object to us doing so. 
Its appropriate here for L&G to pay interest because the benefit was due to Miss H from July 
2019. In other words, its been established and accepted by L&G that she couldnt work from 
July 2019, and that the claim was valid from that date (regardless of when it established 
that). Therefore, Miss H was without use of those benefit payments from July 2019, and it 
would be reasonable for interest to be paid to reflect this.
L&G says payment of interest might be awarded by this service where a complaint is 
determined in favour of a complainant. It says Miss Hs complaint hasnt been upheld by this 
service, so it doesnt agree that interest should be paid. 
To clarify, Miss Hs complaint about L&G delaying her claim hasnt been upheld. However, 
her complaint about interest not being paid is a separate matter and, as I agree with our 
investigator that interest should be paid, Ive upheld this aspect of Miss Hs complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to pay compensation equivalent to interest on the backdated benefit at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the benefit was due each month from July 2019 
to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman