DRN-3897937
The complaint
Mr W complains Capquest Debt Recovery Limited are pursuing him for a debt that isnt his.
What happened
Capquest took ownership of an account from a lender  the account opened in July 2003. In 
July 2004, Capquest say the account defaulted and the outstanding balance was around 
£21,000. 
Mr W emailed Capquest on 25 April 2022 and said they were pursuing him for a debt for an 
account he has never had. So, he asked Capquest to stop contacting him. Mr W then called 
Capquest as he said he hadnt heard anything from them and they offered to set up a 
dispute on their system about this issue.
On 25 June 2022, Capquest sent Mr W a letter acknowledging he was disputing the debt 
was his and they asked him to provide proof of identity along with proof of residency at the 
time the account was opened on 1 July 2003. Capquest also noted the outstanding debt they 
were pursuing was for around £21,000.
Mr W replied to this letter on 30 June 2022 and confirmed the address he was living at in 
2003. Mr W was also reluctant to provide the proof Capquest requested as he said he never 
had any dealings with Capquest nor the original lender the account was with. It doesnt seem 
Mr W received a response to this, so he contacted Capquest again on 8 July 2022 and said 
he wasnt sure how they got his details and that he didnt want them to contact him anymore.
Capquest sent Mr W a letter on the same day and apologised for not sending an 
acknowledgement to Mr Ws initial email of 25 April 2022. Capquest said they would 
undertake an investigation into the concerns raised by Mr W.
In the meantime, Capquest have provided a screenshot which they shows they raised a 
query with the original lender for a copy of the credit agreement on 20 July 2022. The 
screenshot shows this was received on 22 August 2022, but there doesnt seem to be any 
evidence to suggest Mr W was made aware of the investigations at this point.
Instead, Capquest sent an email to Mr W on 11 August 2022, in response to Mr Ws email of 
30 June 2022 setting out details of the account that they were pursuing the debt for  details 
included the outstanding debt was around £21,000, the date the account was originally 
opened which was in 2003 and that it defaulted on 1 July 2004. The email then went on to 
say as there was no arrangement in place to pay the outstanding amount, Capquest offered 
to set one up or alternatively, offered Mr W the option of paying around £19,000 to settle the 
account in full. Lastly, at the bottom of the email, Capquest then said they raised a dispute 
for Mr W which was with their specialist team.
Understandably, Mr W was surprised to receive this email and responded on 16 August 
2022 asking Capquest to show him what evidence they held to suggest the account and 
outstanding debt was his. Mr W says trying to get confirmation from the council showing 
where he lived 20 years ago was proving difficult, as he was told they dont hold records that 
far back. 
The next correspondence Mr W received from Capquest was then their final response letter 
on 30 September 2022 explaining there was a possible mistrace. And that Mr W will no 
longer be contacted about the debt.
Mr W says he has found the whole situation very stressful, especially as Capquest said the 
outstanding debt Mr W owed was over £21,000  which is a considerable amount. Mr W 
feels Capquest have harassed him and he wants Capquest to pursue the correct person for 
the debt and not him.
Capquest say they contacted Mr W in good faith using information provided to them by the 
lender and also Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). However, having contacted their trace 
department, they established they may have possibly mistraced their customer. Capquest 
said they didnt think they had harassed Mr W in terms of the level of contact made but do 
believe the contact made could have been prevented. As Capquests trace department 
advised this was a possible mistrace and also as they hadnt received any payments 
towards the debt in the past six years, Capquest closed the account and said Mr W will no 
longer be contacted regarding the debt. Capquest also reassured Mr W that they would 
remove his details from their system. Overall, Capquest acknowledged the stress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W. So, they apologised for this, said that they would provide 
feedback to the relevant part of the business and arranged for a cheque of £100 to be sent 
to Mr W as compensation. 
Mr W confirmed he cashed the cheque in, but said he felt the £100 was compensation for 
the time it took Capquest to identify this was a mistrace and didnt compensate him for the 
stress and anxiety caused.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns. In summary, he said Capquest didnt obtain a 
definite trace to confirm Mr W was the genuine debtor and that when Mr W complained 
about being pursued for the debt, Capquest were slow to deal with his concerns. Our 
Investigator also said Mr W was worried he was facing a substantial debt and found the 
matter very stressful. So overall, our Investigator asked Capquest to pay a further £250 in 
addition to the £100 theyve already paid Mr W.
Mr W agreed to our Investigators recommendation. However, Capquest didnt. They clarified 
that they sent a query to the original lender asking for a copy of the agreement so a check 
could be done on the opening address. Capquest provided a screenshot to show this 
request was sent to the lender on 20 July 2022 and was received on 22 August 2022. 
Capquest recognised Mr Ws email to them on 25 April 2022 wasnt acknowledged when 
received as it wasnt reviewed by their case handler. Capquest also said it was clear in the 
call between them and Mr W that he was disputing the account was his, so payment 
shouldnt have been discussed. So, Capquest agreed further compensation was warranted 
and suggested a further £100 compensation, bringing the total compensation amount to 
£200. We put this to Mr W, but he disagreed and said the £350 in total recommended by our 
Investigator was fairer. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All in all, it was around five months from when Mr W first complained about being pursued 
for a debt he didnt own in April 2022, to when he received Capquests final response letter at the end of September 2022, confirming they possibly mistraced their customer and that 
they were going to remove Mr Ws details from their system. I asked Capquest for 
information on their process for what steps they would typically take once a customer raises 
a possible mistrace or disputes the debt is legitimately theirs, but they didnt provide this. 
Instead, Capquest explained the reason they didnt take action when Mr W first complained 
to them in April 2022 was because his concerns were, unfortunately, missed by them and his 
email wasnt picked up.
During this period of five months, Capquest gave Mr W conflicting information  they first 
asked him to provide proof of residence at the time the account opened in 2003, which I 
understand Mr W was reluctant to provide given his strong belief that he didnt have an 
account with the lender Capquest were pursuing the debt on nor had he had any dealings 
with Capquest previously. The next correspondence Capquest sent to Mr W acknowledged 
he wasnt sent a response to his first contact in April 2022 and reassured him Capquest 
were investigating his concerns. Then, Capquest sent Mr W another email on 11 August 
2022 (in response to an email he sent two months prior in June 2022) asking him to pay the 
outstanding debt. I dont think it was clear to Mr W what was expected from him and 
understandably, this would have caused Mr W confusion and worry  I think Mr W would 
have been left very concerned about whether Capquest were investigating matters for him or 
whether they were expecting him to pay the debt.
Additionally, Capquests email of 11 August 2022, also seems to be conflicting. On one 
hand, Capquest said they expected Mr W to pay the outstanding balance or to settle the 
account by paying around £19,000. But on the other hand, they said a dispute had been 
raised and was escalated to their specialist team. This led to further frustration for Mr W as it 
resulted in him sending another email to Capquest where he asked for evidence to show he 
owns the account they were pursuing him for the debt on. Despite asking for this information 
several times, I havent seen any evidence to suggest Capquest were able to show Mr W 
that he owned the account and I dont find this request to be unreasonable.
Further to this, Capquest say they spoke to Mr W on 23 June 2022 and a dispute was 
discussed, including the documents needed for the matter to be reviewed. When the dispute 
was received, they raised a query for a copy of the agreement from the original lender on 20 
July 2022. Its not clear what Capquest mean when they say the dispute was received and 
its also not clear on what date this was received. Nonetheless, the query was raised with the 
original lender nearly three weeks after Capquest say they spoke to Mr W on 23 June 2022. 
I think it would have been helpful for Capquest to let Mr W know that they contacted the 
original lender for a copy of the credit agreement as I think this would have given Mr W some 
reassurance that they were listening to what he was telling them  that he never held an 
account with the original lender. Instead, the next correspondence Mr W received from 
Capquest was that of 11 August 2022  where Capquest asked Mr W to pay the debt or 
settle it in full with a payment of around £19,000.
Capquest say they received a copy of the credit agreement from the lender on 22 August 
2022. Capquest have provided evidence of an email where they raised a mistrace query to 
the relevant team on 28 September 2022  this was just over a month after Capquest say 
they received the information from the original lender. I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me of the reason for why this took over a month, and I think Capquest could have 
acted faster given the amount of money they were pursuing Mr W for here.
Overall, while I find Capquest thought they were seeking to recover payment from the 
correct person, I dont think they treated Mr W fairly. Capquest didnt provide Mr W with the 
information hed asked for to contest the debt and I think they took too long to respond to Mr 
Ws concerns. I think five months is a long time for Mr W to be worrying about a debt of a 
considerable amount that he told Capquest, multiple times, wasnt his. So, I think this matter unnecessarily dragged on for some time. When Capquest did contact Mr W, I dont think 
their communication was clear in terms of what was expected from Mr W at that point in 
time. I also think Capquest could have kept Mr W better informed in terms of why they took 
so long to respond to his concerns (they simply said they apologise for their delayed 
response in the final response letter) and also what contact they made with the original 
lender. Having listened to the call between Capquest and Mr W, I agree that it was clear 
from the outset Mr W was disputing the account and debt was his. So, I dont think it was 
helpful for the advisor to discuss the amount outstanding that Capquest were pursuing Mr W 
for.
Turning to the impact this mistrace error has had on Mr W, he told us this has caused him 
stress and anxiety for which he was prescribed medication for. Mr W says he felt Capquest 
harassed him and he says this issue has impacted his family life as the lack of 
communication from Capquest about his concerns has affected his mood. I can understand 
the distress and worry Mr W has been caused as I say, Capquest were asking him to pay 
quite a significant amount of money. Mr W also sent Capquest an email in October 2022, 
after their final response letter, asking them to consider a higher amount of compensation for 
the distress caused and he also asked them for confirmation that they wont sell or use his 
information. I can see this email was received by Capquest but I havent seen any evidence 
to show Capquest responded to these requests and I think this would have added to Mr Ws 
feelings Capquest werent communicating adequately with him.
I understand Mr W says he was expecting a bailiff to arrive at his house to ask him for the 
outstanding balance, which was worrying for him. Mr W says he hasnt had confirmation 
from Capquest nor the original lender that they wont pursue him for this debt. But Mr W 
received confirmation from Capquest in their final response letter that they would be 
removing his details from their system and that they wont pursue him for the debt. So, 
without any other evidence to contradict this, I think its fair for Mr W to rely on these 
reassurances given by Capquest. 
Having thought about the distress and inconvenience caused, I think the impact of this issue 
has caused Mr W considerable stress, upset and worry which lasted over a number of 
months. So, I agree with our Investigator that I think Capquest should pay Mr W a further 
£250 compensation, in addition to the £100 theyve already paid him, bringing the total 
compensation amount to £350.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to pay Mr W a further 
£250 compensation, bringing the total compensation amount to £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman