DRN-4438846
The complaint
Mrs A complains about legal costs added to her second charge mortgage (secured loan) 
with Elderbridge Limited.
What happened
Mrs A had a secured loan with Elderbridge  it was originally with another lender but later 
transferred to Elderbridge. She borrowed £15,750 including fees over 15 years, beginning in 
2002. Unfortunately the loan fell into arrears. Because of the arrears and additional interest 
on the missed payments the loan balance wasnt cleared by the end of the term in 2017. 
In 2018 Elderbridge began court proceedings to repossess the property. Mrs A defended the 
repossession claim and so the court listed the case for a full trial. As part of her defence, she 
contested the brokers fee and legal fees added to the loan balance, the interest rate, and 
whether the loan had been properly transferred to Elderbridge. The court listed the case for 
a one day trial. Just before the trial date, it was adjourned to a later date.
Elderbridge says that shortly before the re-arranged trial Mrs As solicitors served a skeleton 
argument raising new issues, which led to the trial being adjourned a second time. The trial 
was re-listed for a two day hearing in February 2020. Just before the trial a settlement was 
reached and set out in a Tomlin Order.
Under the Tomlin Order, Elderbridge agreed to accept £50,000 in full and final settlement of 
the loan agreement  including interest, fees, and charges  provided payment was made by 
31 July 2020. It says that this represented a substantial reduction in the total loan balance, 
which was by then around £71,000  the outstanding capital and interest of £43,000 plus 
legal costs. 
Following the Tomlin Order, Mrs A put her property on the market but sale was delayed 
because of the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown. Elderbridge agreed to extend the 
deadline in the Tomlin Order and accept £50,000 in settlement of the loan, with payments 
made in the meantime used to reduce that figure. The property was eventually sold and the 
loan repaid in January 2022. 
Mrs A said this wasnt fair  she had only borrowed £15,000 to begin with and had already 
repaid £39,000 in capital and interest payments. Although Elderbridge agreed a reduced 
settlement offer, she had to sell her property and cash in her pension to pay the amount it 
demanded. She says this has had and will have serious consequence for her and her family.
Mrs A said that the legal costs were excessive and unfair and it was unreasonable that 
Elderbridge or its solicitors wouldnt give her a breakdown of the costs or explain how they 
were made up.
Elderbridge said it had given Mrs A a breakdown of the legal costs when shed made a 
previous complaint, in 2021. It and its solicitors couldnt give her more details of the work 
done by the solicitors or the communications between Elderbridge and its solicitors because 
that was covered by legal privilege.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, so Mrs A asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A has previously brought a complaint to us about the amount of legal costs added to the 
balance, and we explained that it wouldnt be appropriate for us to consider that complaint. 
Thats because the final repayment sum  including legal fees  had been agreed by Mrs A 
and Elderbridge as part of the court case, and the court had set out that agreement in a 
Tomlin Order.
Since then, she has made several complaints to Elderbridge about various aspects of the 
settlement figure and the legal costs, and Elderbridge has issued several final responses. 
Before our investigator set out her view on the merits of the complaint, another ombudsman 
issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that Mrs A didnt refer most of those final responses 
to us within the required six months. That meant those parts of her complaint were out of 
time and couldnt be considered. 
The only part of Mrs As complaint that was brought in time, the ombudsman said, was that 
Elderbridges solicitor had, in a letter in May 2022, refused to provide a more detailed 
breakdown of the legal costs than was contained in Elderbridges letter of 24 September 
2021 and that Elderbridge hadnt required the solicitor to give a more detailed explanation.
I agree that parts of this complaint have been brought out of time. Our rules require a final 
response to be referred to us within six months, and where Mrs A didnt do that we cant 
consider the matters set out in those final responses. Mrs A says that she didnt bring those 
complaints to us because of exceptional circumstances related to the impact of the 
pandemic and family bereavements. Im very sorry to hear of that. But as Mrs A was in 
regular contact with Elderbridge, including making further complaints, I dont think her 
circumstances prevented her bringing her complaint to us. 
I also agree that it wouldnt be appropriate for us to consider the amount of the legal fees, or 
the final agreed settlement sum of which they are a part. Thats because the settlement 
balance was agreed between Mrs A and Elderbridge in full settlement of her outstanding 
loan balance, Elderbridges claim for possession and Mrs As defence to the claim. Where a 
matter has been resolved by full and final settlement its not appropriate for the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to re-open it. Thats especially the case where the settlement was 
included in a court order, since we do not have the power to override decisions of the courts. 
So even if this part of her complaint wasnt out of time it still wouldnt be appropriate for us to 
consider it. We explained that when considering Mrs As previous complaint to us, and the 
same reasons apply to this complaint.
That leaves the complaint about the refusal of Elderbridges solicitors to provide Mrs A with a 
more detailed breakdown of the costs incurred. 
Elderbridge itself gave Mrs A a breakdown of the costs in a letter in September 2021. Mrs A 
then asked its solicitors for more information. The solicitors wrote to her in May 2022, giving 
some more information but also saying they couldnt go into more detail because their 
actions on behalf of Elderbridge were covered by legal privilege.
This is the legal concept that discussions between a solicitor and their client are confidential 
and the solicitor cant disclose them to third parties without the clients consent. Elderbridge had given Mrs A a breakdown of the costs already, in 2021. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to expect Elderbridge to agree to its solicitors disclosing details of the work 
they did for Elderbridge to Mrs A, because of the principle of confidentiality.
I think Elderbridge gave Mrs A a reasonably detailed breakdown of the costs in September 
2021. By then, she had already agreed to pay the costs as part of the settlement figure 
included in the Tomlin Order. If she didnt think the costs were fair, or were excessive, that 
ought to have been raised in the discussions leading up to the agreement of the Tomlin 
Order. I think the information Elderbridge and its solicitors have given Mrs A since then is fair 
and I dont require it to take any further action.
I appreciate Mrs A feels very strongly about what happened and that repaying the loan led to 
her losing her house. She feels shes been the victim of an injustice. I do understand her 
strength of feeling and Im sorry to hear of the difficulties shes faced in repaying the agreed 
sum. But because the amount she would have to pay  including legal fees  was set by 
agreement as part of court proceedings its not something I can re-open. And I dont think 
Elderbridge is required to give a more detailed explanation of the costs included than it 
already has. I know Mrs A will be disappointed by this conclusion, but I hope she 
understands the reasons for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman