DRN-2810968
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about a letter they received in error from The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited which they say caused them a financial loss.
Mr and Mrs H are being represented in their complaint by their financial adviser. For ease I 
will refer to all actions as being those of Mr and Mrs H.
What happened
In early March 2020 Mr and Mrs H asked Prudential to switch their holdings in an investment 
fund to cash. A few days later Prudential sent Mr and Mrs H a letter confirming that the 
switch had been made. This was also confirmed around the same time in a telephone call.
This letter was sent in error and the switch wasnt actually made until 7 May 2020 and for a 
lesser amount than quoted on the letter. Mr and Mrs H complained about the incorrect letter 
saying they relied on it when considering the risk level of their overall portfolio of investments 
at what was a volatile time. Had they have known the switch to cash hadnt been made they 
say they wouldve taken steps to reduce the exposure of the rest of their portfolio. 
Prudential apologised for the incorrect letter saying it was a serious error and paid £500 
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy saying that Prudential should honour the amount of the 
switch quoted on the incorrect letter which was some £22,000 more than they received.   
One of our investigators looked into what happened and thought the £500 was appropriate in 
the circumstances. They explained that once the switch request had been made there was 
no way of changing or withdrawing it. So whilst there was a loss of expectation about the 
amount Mr and Mrs H were going to receive, the cash amount from the switch was always 
going to be the same. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed saying the incorrect letter had serious financial consequences and 
they think Prudential should do more to compensate them. So the complaint has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have provided a lot of information about their complaint. I want to assure them 
that Ive read and considered everything theyve provided even if I dont mention it in detail. 
Ive summarised the information which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
All parties agree the letter sent by Prudential in early March 2020 was incorrect. Prudential 
have paid Mr and Mrs H £500 as an apology for this however they are seeking a higher level 
of compensation. 
Mr and Mrs H have proposed that Prudential pay them the difference between the amount 
quoted on the incorrect letter and the amount they eventually received when the switch was 
actually processed. This is a difference of some £22,000. I can see why Mr and Mrs H feel 
this is a reasonable resolution to the complaint, however I dont agree. 
Regardless of the incorrect letter being sent Mr and Mrs H were always going to receive the 
amount they did. Its unfortunate that during the time between the switch being requested 
and it being processed the value of the fund fell, however that situation was always going to 
be the same. This is because once submitted the switch couldnt be changed or withdrawn. 
A fairer way of thinking about any potential compensation for loss would be to consider what 
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldve done with the rest of their portfolio if it wasnt for the 
incorrect letter being sent. And to think about any actual loss to their portfolio.
Mr and Mrs H say it is impossible to accurately determine the exact extent of any loss as it 
involves too many hypothetical situations and decisions.
Its clear from Mr and Mrs Hs own admission that its not possible to quantify any financial 
loss in this situation. So Ive thought about the wider circumstances of what happened to 
come to a decision I feel is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H say they requested the switch as they had been reviewing their situation at the 
time due to market volatility. They say they wouldve taken action with other elements of their 
portfolio if not for the incorrect letter. However Ive seen no evidence of what these other 
actions mightve been. Had the decision to switch been part of an overall investment strategy 
which could be evidenced, such as something discussed with their financial adviser, then the 
situation might be different. Here Ive seen no evidence of an investment strategy other than 
the decision to switch this investment into cash. Thats not to say that Mr and Mrs H might 
not have had a strategy planned in their thoughts, its quite possible they did. But without 
seeing any evidence from the time about what that they planned to do with the rest of their 
portfolio I cant fairly determine any loss. 
Ive also looked at what actions were taken by Mr and Mrs H in early May after the switch 
was processed. This might give some indication of what, hypothetically, they mightve done 
but for the incorrect letter. However Ive not seen evidence that any actions were taken at 
that time. Im aware that the market was changing quickly, however the absence of any 
action makes it difficult for me to say what might have happened, and how any possible 
actions by Mr and Mrs H couldve mitigated any perceived losses.
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence about what Mr and Mrs H wouldve done differently 
with their portfolio had the incorrect letter not been sent. Because of this I couldnt fairly 
establish any loss, and nor say that any loss was actually incurred.
In their submissions to our service Mr and Mrs H say they could have done something with 
their portfolio at the time. However I havent seen any persuasive evidence from the time, 
other than suggestions of possible actions which lack any detail, about what Mr and Mrs H 
might actually have done. Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs Hs portfolio 
actually suffered a loss due to what happened.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied the £500 already paid to Mr and Mrs H 
is a fair and reasonable resolution of the complaint so I wont be asking Prudential to do 
anything further. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman