DRN-1543868
 
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy she wasnt able to access her account with Studio Retail Limited.
What happened
Miss B has an account with Studio, and she wasnt able to log on to their online platform 
from August 2018 to March 2019. Because of this she wasnt able to manage her account 
properly. Studio say they were sending Miss B paper statements every month, but Miss B 
says she wasnt receiving these.
Miss B has complained she wasnt able to access her account. Shes also unhappy that 
Studio didnt take into consideration her PTSD and anxiety when they dealt with her.
Our investigator found Studio had acted unreasonably. She said Miss B had paid her 
minimum payment each month she was able to access her account online, but her payments 
were erratic when she couldnt access her account online. So she thought it was reasonable 
to conclude that Miss B wasnt receiving paper statements. 
The investigator also thought Studio shouldve shown more empathy with Miss Bs personal 
situation, provided a better explanation of why they couldnt prioritise her complaint, and 
taken into consideration how she was impacted by not being able to access her account. So 
she recommended that Studio pay Miss B £100 in compensation for this.
Miss B agreed with the investigator and confirmed that Studio have now started sending her 
paper statements. She also thought Studio were very discriminative and do not consider nor 
care regarding peoples mental health.
Studio didnt agree with the investigator. While they confirmed theyd had an issue with their 
online system, this affected all customers and not just Miss B. They feel they dealt with her 
complaint appropriately. They also believe that Miss B was receiving her paper statements 
and, if she wasnt, then it was an issue with the post and not them. They say they didnt 
charge any late payment fees, so they dont see Miss Bs payments as erratic. Because of 
this they dont feel any compensation is appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Its not disputed that Studio had issues with their online account access, and this affected 
Miss B and other customers. So my decision will focus on how this impacted Miss B and 
whether she had an alternative method of checking her account i.e. paper statements.Miss B says she hadnt received any paper statements from Studio since she opened her 
account, although she does get other post  flyers and brochures- from them. She 
understands that the occasional piece of post goes missing, but not every statement Studio 
send. Because of this she feels Studio werent sending paper statements.
Studio say their statements are produced off-site by another company, and they cant prove 
Ms Bs statements were produced. But they say the other company would have to physically 
remove Miss Bs statements from the printing batch to stop them being posted to her. 
Because of this they believe, on the balance of probabilities, that if the statements had been 
processed then they would be posted.
Where there is a difference in opinion like this, and where there is no evidence to say who is 
right and who isnt, I have to rely on what I think was more likely to have happened.
I agree with Studio that, if Miss Bs statements were produced then they were posted. But 
this doesnt necessarily mean they were produced. Miss B has said shed never received 
any statements from them, and shes complained about not receiving statements. Shes also 
asked for copies of statements of more than one occasion. I agree with the investigator that 
Miss B is highly unlikely to have done this if she was receiving paper statements. So I think it 
was more likely than not that Miss B wasnt receiving paper statements. And, with Studios 
online system not working, she wouldnt know exactly what was going on with her accounts.
Ive seen Miss Bs statements from October 2017 to October 2019. While Miss B usually 
paid the minimum payment, there were months she paid more. And while she usually made 
one payment a month to Studio, again there were months she made multiple payments. But 
Ive seen that, although not exclusively, Miss B was more likely to pay multiple payments in a 
month, and pay more than the minimum payment, in the period she couldnt access her 
account online  August 2018 to March 2019.
I dont agree with the investigator that Miss Bs payments were erratic between August 2018 
and March 2019, when they werent before or after this period; but I do think the pattern of 
payments supports the complaint that she didnt know what was happening with her account.
Miss B has explained how not having access to her account affected her. In an email to 
Studio on 31 January 2019 she said the anxiety I experience along with OCD I have to be 
able to see my finances and you are holding back this information from me!!!! And Studios 
contact log for Miss Bs complaint says Miss B has health issues which this is not helping.
Studio have said they dealt with Miss Bs complaint reasonably, but I dont agree with this. 
Ive seen an email they sent her on 18 March 2019 saying shed agreed her complaint had 
been resolved to her satisfaction, which is why itd been closed. But the body of this email is 
set out as a letter and dated 4 February 2019. So it took Studio six weeks to send this out. 
And from Miss Bs reply to this email, its clear she didnt agree her complaint has been 
resolved. Studio have not provided anything, for example a call recording or email, showing 
Miss B agreed her complaint was resolved.
Putting things right
I agree Studio should pay Miss B some compensation to acknowledge the stress and 
anxiety caused by her not being able to access her account and not having any paper 
statements sent to her. But I also agree that we cant say Miss B was signed off work entirely 
because of the stress caused by Studio. So I wont be asking Studio to pay any loss of 
earnings, and I think the £100 recommended by the investigator is reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Bs complaint. Studio Retail Limited must pay 
her £100 to recognise the stress and anxiety caused by Miss B not being able to access her 
account for nine months, and not receiving paper statements during this time. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman