DRN-3254819
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt provided the service it should have in 
responding to his concerns about what it has recorded on his credit file about his credit card 
account. He wants a written explanation of the data recorded and, if this is found to be 
incorrect, the data amended, an apology and redress for the time he has spent dealing with 
this issue.
What happened
Mr H contacted Santander as he was concerned that the information recorded on his credit 
card account may not be correct. He said that the total amount he had paid didnt reconcile 
with the amounts recorded on his credit file and provided copies of his analysis regarding 
this. He says this had potentially had a negative impact on his ability to gain other credit.
Mr H said that he has asked Santander for an explanation that consistently works when 
applied to the data filed but says this hasnt been provided. He says his concerns relate to 
the Balance, Payment and Previous Statement Balance information. Mr H says if the data is 
incorrect it should be amended, and he should be compensated for the time he has spent 
trying to resolve this issue. Mr H also says that when he raised his complaint it wasnt 
correctly logged.
Santander said that the information it has recorded with the credit reference agencies is 
correct. It said the current balance and credit limit data corresponded directly with the 
statement issued in the month. It noted Mr Hs concern was about the statement balance 
and payments made columns. It said it had examined Mr Hs statements and that these 
columns reflected the information from the previous month, and this was due to timing of 
when the information was provided to the credit reference agencies. It said that information 
was reported throughout the month and not always on the same day.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that having compared Mr Hs account 
history to the information reported to the credit reference agencies he couldnt see any 
negative information or discrepancies. He noted the timing of when information was reported 
and said in this case he didnt think Santander had made an error.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. He said that considering the timing difference, the 
payments he had made still didnt reconcile with the total amounts recorded on his credit 
report.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
The information provided from the credit file extract and the statement generally 
reconciled although the timing meant that there was a month lag in certain cases. 
The information in new transactions included refunds.
I understood Mr Hs concerns that the payment data appeared to be double counted 
in certain months on his credit file. This was raised with Santander with payment 
information flagged for the months of June, September and December 2020 and 
February 2021 and a balance discrepancy for October 2020. Santanders credit data 
quality team said this issue was due to timing. I thought this explained the difference 
in the October balance amount. However, I didnt think a clear explanation for the 
double counting of the payment amounts (without a possible offset the next month) 
had been provided and I understood why this is frustrating for Mr H.
I thought Santander could have done more to provide clarity regarding the 
information and this would have potentially resolved this issue sooner, but I found on 
balance it reasonable to accept that the issues were due to the timing of payments 
compared to when information was reported to the credit reference agencies. The 
balance amounts were correct which I wouldnt expect to be the case if incorrect 
payment information had been sent and the issues appeared to occur when 
payments were made later in the month which correlated with the comments 
Santander had made. 
On balance, I didnt find I had anything to suggest the information being recorded 
with the credit reference agencies about the payment amounts was incorrect.
Mr H was concerned that the recorded information could have a negative impact on 
his credit file. I didnt see any adverse information recorded on his account and as 
the balances recorded were in line with his statements and the differences related to 
the payment amounts (which suggested a higher amount being paid in a certain 
month) I didnt think it likely that this would have any adverse impact on Mr Hs ability 
to gain other credit.
Overall, I understood how frustrating this experience had been for Mr H but I didnt 
find that Santander had made mistakes and I couldnt see that the information 
recorded was inaccurate in a way that was to Mr Hs detriment. Therefore, I didnt 
uphold this complaint.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision. He remained concerned that there might be 
some detriment arising from the reporting issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this issue has caused Mr H upset and frustration as he has tried to reconcile the 
information he has seen recorded on his credit file against the information contained in his 
monthly statements. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied 
that Santander has done something wrong in how it has recorded the information with the 
credit reference agencies. In this case, as I set out in my provisional decision, I think on 
balance it reasonable to accept that the difference in the amounts are due to the timing of 
payments compared to when information is reported to the credit reference agencies. 
Overall, I do not find that I can say Santander has made mistakes and while I note Mr Hs 
comments, I do not see that the information recorded was inaccurate in a way that was to his 
detriment. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman