DRN-4066473
The complaint
Mr S complains that Target Servicing Limited caused unnecessary delays when he wanted 
to redeem his help to buy loan.
What happened
Mr S bought a flat in 2017 with the assistance of the help to buy scheme. 
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower takes a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required. Mr S property is in England, and he took the loan out with Homes England, which 
was formally known as Homes and Communities Agency. They are an executive agency and 
non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and 
Communities. Homes England lends a percentage of the property purchase price to the 
borrower to enable them to buy a home. 
Help to buy shared equity loans are interest free for the first five years. From year six 
onwards, interest is payable. Help to buy shared equity loans are secured by way of a 
second charge over the property, ranking it behind the main mortgage. This means that the 
loan must be repaid at the end of its term which is generally 25 years. But if the property is 
sold before then, it must be repaid on the sale of the property. A borrower can also elect to 
repay the loan at any time, even if the property is not being sold. 
What the borrower must pay back is calculated by reference to the value of the property at 
the time they want to sell it or otherwise repay the shared equity loan. So depending on how 
property prices have changed in the meantime, the borrower may have to pay back more or 
less than the amount they originally borrowed. 
Mr S said he sent Target a valuation report and a form to request redemption of the help to 
buy loan. He said he needed a redemption figure to apply for a remortgage. 
Mr S said he chased Target on numerous occasions, and they were asking him for 
documents he had already provided and at one point told him they couldnt locate 
information on his account so asked for more information. Mr S said Target then asked him 
for an EWS1 form despite the block being exempt from one so this was causing further 
delay. 
He said in February 2022 he was going to remortgage on to a two-year fixed rate of around 
1.53% but hasnt been able to because of the delays caused by Target. He said he is now 
on the standard variable rate (SVR), so the mortgage payments are much higher. 
The property was valued at £205,000 in January 2022 and Target said they had noticed a 
decrease in the value so they said they would refer it to Homes England. Target also said 
they wanted further market commentary on the valuation to understand the decrease in 
value, which Mr S provided in May 2022. 
Target acknowledged there had been some delays and offered Mr S £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused and they also agreed to reimburse him £193.96 towards the 
interest on his account. Mr S didnt accept this and said that he is being charged more for his 
mortgage than he would have been if it wasnt for the delays that Target caused. 
As Mr S disagreed, he brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator agreed that Target had caused 
some delays, but she thought that what Target had offered Mr S was fair. She didnt think 
that Mr S would have been able to secure a mortgage for the additional borrowing to repay 
the help to buy loan in early 2022 because his property had a rating of B2  which she didnt 
think lenders would agree to lend on at that time. So she didnt make any award for the 
changes in interest rate that had occurred. 
Mr S was unhappy about this. He said there was no cladding on the building and the 
property was exempt from a EWS1 form. He said if regulations changed after that time that 
that wasnt his fault, and he knows of sales that have happened in the same building and 
that his current lender was willing to lend on the property  as he already has a mortgage 
with them. He said he is thousands of pounds out of pocket, and he could have transferred 
his mortgage product if he was given a straight answer from Target, but he wasnt  which 
has now led to much higher interest rates. 
As Mr S disagreed with the investigator, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated entity in administering the loan on behalf of the lender, Target is carrying out 
the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection.
Under the regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and exercising the 
lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as collecting payments the 
lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must do what the lender is required to 
do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, while acting on the lenders behalf. And 
as a regulated firm, it has wider obligations to act fairly.
Although the lender is Homes England, they have appointed Target to act on their behalf  
as using the description in the loan agreement  its nominated agent Mr S was told to deal 
with Target at all times and Target was presented as being responsible for the management 
and administration of the loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that I can take these matters into account when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator and as a 
regulated entity carrying out regulated activities in their own right, Target is the appropriate 
firm to respond to this complaint. As a regulated entity carrying out a regulated activity, they 
have an obligation to act fairly and reasonably in performing the lenders duties.
Under the loan terms and conditions, Mr S is entitled to redeem the loan at any time, either 
by selling the property or repaying in some other way (such as from savings, or by taking 
further borrowing on the main mortgage). 
According to the terms and conditions, a redemption request should be made to Target as 
the nominated agent. A valuation is then arranged by the appointment of a qualified surveyor 
by agreement between the parties. That valuation is binding in settling the redemption figure, 
and the loan should be repaid within three months (extendable to four on application) of the 
valuation.
Mr S provided Target with a valuation which was carried out on 24 January 2022 and the 
valuation was £205,000. Target noted there had been a drop in the value of the property. 
They referred this to Homes England and Mr S had three months to redeem the loan before 
the valuation expired. From the contact notes provided, I can see that Target contacted Mr S in April and said they 
needed market commentary on the valuation due to the drop in value. Target also 
acknowledged that they should have also told Mr S sooner that they needed either an EWS1 
form or confirmation from the building management that one wasnt needed. It looks like the 
valuation was sent back with commentary and Target said there was issues with opening the 
document which caused a delay of around one month  as they should have noticed this 
sooner.  I dont think there is any dispute that Target had caused some delay in providing the 
redemption statement to Mr S which they have acknowledged. 
What I need to consider is what these delays meant for Mr S and what impact they would 
have on him being able to get a redemption statement sooner, which would have enabled 
him to remortgage so he could pay off the help to buy loan.
I dont think Targets actions in delaying the redemption delayed Mr S ability to redeem the 
loan. I say this because Mr S wasnt selling the property, his intention was to repay the loan 
by further borrowing.
Im not persuaded that Mr S would have been able to do that in early 2022, even if Target 
had issued a redemption statement promptly following the valuation. His property was 
impacted by fire safety concerns. 
Ive seen an EWS1 form for the building which was carried out in August 2021 which 
recommends that advice should be sought from a Chartered Fire Engineer to review the 
report and provide a fire risk assessment appraisal. This report said that the property had 
been rated as a B2  meaning that there were substantial risks that required remediation 
work.
Ive seen a letter from a fire survey company that reviewed the above report. They confirmed 
that the building was rated a B2 but could be upgraded to B1 if all balconies were 
underdrawn with non-combustible boarding. So this confirms that the building was rated a 
B2  which is where combustible materials are present in the external wall, and the risk is 
sufficiently high that remedial works are required. 
Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage market that it was very difficult if not 
impossible to obtain a mortgage on a B2 rated property at the time  and that would include 
taking additional borrowing on an existing mortgage. The market has moved on more 
recently, both because of changes in guidance and lender risk appetite and because 
individual properties are either remediated or have clear remediation plans (including 
funding) in place. Mr S says he will now be able to remortgage/take additional borrowing, but 
I dont think he would have been able to do this in early 2022. 
Our investigator checked with Mr S existing lender  which we are entitled to do  to find out 
how far Mr S got with his mortgage application previously, so we could decide if there was 
any financial loss with regard to the interest rates that Mr S said he would have been able to 
get. They confirmed that Mr S wanted to borrow additional funds to repay his help to buy 
loan and borrow additional funds to pay off his credit card  but they didnt proceed to 
mortgage offer. And the last valuation they had on the property they said was completed 
prior to completion of the mortgage. 
I understand that Mr S said he needed a redemption statement in order to proceed to full 
application and mortgage offer, but like I said, at this time, lenders were less inclined to lend 
on properties like Mr S. So even if he was given a redemption statement, its unlikely that his 
lender would have proceeded to offer on the mortgage  irrespective of him having his 
mortgage with them already. 
So based on this, Mr S mortgage payments would always have increased, and it would 
have been up to him to decide if he wanted to approach his existing lender to switch his 
interest rate  but he didnt because he was waiting for Target. But Targets delays would have made no difference. So I wont be asking Target to reimburse Mr S for the increase in 
his mortgage payments for the reasons Ive already given above. 
However, Target did cause delays and I think the amount they have offered of £293.96 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but I wont be asking Target to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I direct Target Servicing Limited to pay Mr S £293.96 if they 
havent done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman