DRN-2945162
The complaint
Mrs P complains that the loan she had from AvantCredit of UK, LLC was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Mrs P took out a loan with AvantCredit on 6 June 2016. She borrowed £2,000 and was due 
to repay £112.96 monthly for 24 months until 25 May 2018.
Mrs P says that AvantCredit didnt properly check her credit file before it lent to her and she 
had to borrow more money to make the repayments. She says shes now on a debt 
management plan.
AvantCredit says it asked Mrs P for details of her financial circumstances, verified her 
income and checked her credit file. It says that, following its creditworthiness and 
affordability assessment, it concluded the loan was affordable and sustainable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
AvantCredit carried out proportionate checks and that there was nothing to indicate the loan 
repayments were unsustainable.
Mrs P responded to say, in summary, that if AvantCredit had properly checked her credit 
history, it would have seen that she was already in a debt management plan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when AvantCredit lent to Mrs P. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that AvantCredit needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
At the time of the lending CONC 5.3.1G stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks in 
the following circumstances:
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Ps case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mrs Ps loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Mrs P applied for her loan from AvantCredit, it asked her for information about her 
income and expenditure and carried out a detailed credit check. AvantCredit also verified 
Mrs Ps income.
The checks showed:Mrs Ps income was just over £2,500;
The monthly repayments for the loan were less than 5% of Mrs Ps monthly income;
Mrs Ps existing credit was well-managed:
oPayments on her mortgage had been up-to-date for at least two years;
oThere were no late payments on either of her two loan accounts;
oShe was well within her overdraft limit and her balance was reducing;
oMrs P had small (under £300) balances on a credit card and a mail order 
account, on which she was making regular monthly repayments and the 
balances on both were steadily decreasing;
There was a credit card which had been taken out in August 2000 and had a balance 
of over £6,000. This account was with a debt collection agency, but regular payments 
had been received for at least two years and the account was showing as up-to-date 
throughout this period.
Mrs P had declared her mortgage to be £330 per month, although her credit file showed the 
monthly repayment as £629. It is possible that she shared the repayment, but even taking 
the higher figure into account for the affordability calculation, Im satisfied AvantCredit would 
have found the new loan repayments affordable. Her existing credit commitments were 
around £550 per month and shed declared her other expenses, including bills and travel 
costs, to be £935. This left her with a disposable income of about £400 per month from 
which to make the loan repayment.
I acknowledge Mrs P says AvantCredit should have seen from her credit file that she was 
already in a debt management plan and I accept that should have been the case. However, 
as AvantCredit is in the sub-prime lender market, it is likely that its borrowers have less than 
perfect credit records. Although Mrs Ps credit file showed she had a credit card account with 
a debt collection agency, and a payment arrangement on another credit card, her accounts 
were generally well-managed and there appeared to be no current financial difficulties. 
Mrs Ps credit file showed no delinquent accounts, no defaults and no short-term loans in the 
last 12 months.
So I cant see there was anything in the information AvantCredit collected that indicated it 
should have carried out further checks or that the repayments were unaffordable to Mrs P. I 
note that Mrs P made her repayments on time for the first ten months before the account 
became part of a debt management plan.
In summary, I cant conclude AvantCredit made an unfair lending decision when it approved 
the loan and I cant see it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman