DRN-3402740
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc reduced the limit 
on their Virgin One mortgage account.
What happened
In 1999 Mr and Mrs B opened a Virgin One account. RBS is responsible for the way that 
account was managed. The account combined a mortgage and current account, bundled 
into one account.
Mr and Mrs Bs account had a borrowing facility of up to £138,923 repayable over 15 years 
and six months on a capital and interest repayment basis. Mr and Mrs B increased their 
facility several times over the course of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B were issued with a repayment plan guide, which explained how much should 
be left in their account each month in order for the mortgage to be paid off by the end of the 
term.
In 2013, RBS told them that they hadnt reduced the balance of their mortgage by enough 
and werent on track to repay it at the end of term. In April 2013 their borrowing facility was 
reduced by £1 to £150,922 in line with the repayment guide plan. RBS warned Mr and Mrs B 
that their borrowing facility would be reduced again in April 2014 - this time to £85,174.  
Mr and Mrs Bs borrowing facility was reduced to £85,174 in April 2014.  
Mr and Mrs B discussed their options with RBS on several occasions. They told RBS that 
they didnt want their borrowing facility to be reduced, and, after it was, that the reduction 
had caused them financial difficulties. In April 2014 RBS wrote to them to say that on 8 April 
2015 their facility would be reduced again  to £16,666. Their mortgage was due to end in 
July 2015.
In October 2014 Mr and Mrs B sold their property for £425,000, and their mortgage was 
redeemed in full. Mr and Mrs B say they sold their property when they did because of RBSs 
actions to reduce their borrowing.
In 2019, RBS contacted Mr and Mrs B. It told them it had set up a remediation project to 
review whether customers, including Mr and Mrs B, had taken unintended actions as a result 
of its actions. After it had considered Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, RBS said it believed Mr 
and Mrs B had sold their property as a result of its actions and offered them £9,199.40 
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs B accepted RBS offer in October 2019 in full and final settlement of the matter. 
After this RBS reviewed how some of the decisions theyd taken in their remediation project. 
In August 2020 it sent Mr and Mrs B a letter asking them if theyd suffered any additional 
losses that werent covered by its original offer.
Mr and Mrs B completed a telephone review with RBS after this. They asked RBS to 
reimburse other costs theyd incurred that hadnt been included in RBS 2019 offer. RBS 
asked Mr and Mrs B to provide evidence of those costs, which they did. 
In December 2020 RBS sent Mr and Mrs B a final response letter covering this review. In 
that final response RBS said it thought Mr and Mrs B had always intended to sell their 
property to redeem their mortgage. So it thought Mr and Mrs Bs decision to sell their 
property in 2014 was based on the account nearing its maturity and a personal choice rather 
than RBS actions. The final response went on to say that Mr and Mrs B shouldnt have been 
included in its remediation project. However, it said RBS would honour the compensation 
theyd already paid as a gesture of goodwill. 
In that final response RBS acknowledged that its communications in the years before Mr and 
Mrs B sold their property in 2014 may have exacerbated an already difficult situation for 
them. So it awarded Mr and Mrs B £500 compensation. However, RBS offset that 
compensation against the payment of £9,199.40 which had already been paid to 
Mr and Mrs B. In addition, RBS offered Mr and Mrs B a further £125 compensation: £50 for 
the distress and inconvenience of asking for evidence that wasnt needed, and £75 as a 
goodwill payment for Mr and Mrs B participating in the review.
In August 2021 RBS sent Mr and Mrs B another final response letter. In that letter RBS 
apologised for its poor service and awarded Mr and Mrs B £500 in recognition of the 
disappointment it caused Mr and Mrs B when it offset £500 compensation in December 
2020.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy so they complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
They asked us to look into the compensation they were paid, to see if it was reasonable. Mr 
and Mrs B think they should be awarded more money for what happened. In particular, they 
want to be compensated for the further losses they discussed with RBS in 2020, that werent 
included in the 2019 offer they accepted. They are unhappy with the way theyve been 
treated  both in the years before they sold their property in 2014 and after RBS contacted 
them again 2020.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She thought that RBS actions resulted in Mr and 
Mrs B selling their property in 2014. So she said RBS was wrong to say that Mr and Mrs 
shouldnt have been included in the remediation project. However, she thought the 
compensation RBS paid Mr and Mrs B was broadly in line with what the Financial 
Ombudsman Service would expect. Although she appreciated that Mr and Mrs B wanted to 
be paid more compensation, our investigator said that Mr and Mrs B had accepted RBS 
offer of £9,199.40 compensation in full and final settlement of the matter. So she didnt 
recommend that RBS compensated them further. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think RBS needs to do more to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was due to end in July 2015. In the years before this their 
borrowing facility was reduced significantly, and their credit files were negatively affected by 
the impact of the reductions on them. So I can understand why Mr and Mrs B sold their 
property before the mortgage ended. The sale enabled them to pay off the money they owed.
Mr and Mrs B have provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with evidence to show that if 
their borrowing facility hadnt been reduced in the way that it was in the years before they 
sold their property in 2014, they would have been able to repay their mortgage in full when 
the mortgage was due to end in 2015. 
I can see from the evidence provided that RBS knew that Mr B had a pension of £157,000 
that would be available for him to withdraw money from in April 2015, subject to tax. RBS 
have also acknowledged that Mr B told them he had an endowment policy of around 
£25,000 which would mature in June 2015. Considering Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance 
was around £150,000 before the reduction in April 2014 and the term was due to end in July 
2015, I think that Mr and Mrs B wouldve been able to repay the mortgage balance in full in 
2015 if their borrowing facility hadnt been reduced in the way that it was.
So I agree with our investigator that RBS actions resulted in Mr and Mrs B selling their 
property in 2014. Although I can see that Mr and Mrs B mentioned a plan to sell their 
property before 2014, I think that plan was developed as a result of RBS actions to reduce 
their borrowing facility. So, I dont think it was reasonable for RBS to have said they 
shouldnt have been included in the remediation project.
Ive then gone on to consider RBS have calculated the redress in this situation. The 
£9,199.40 compensation offer took into account the average costs of selling a property in 
2014 and included compensatory interest. Im satisfied that this is broadly in line with what 
we would expect in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im in no doubt why Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy about their contact with RBS after they 
accepted its offer of £9,199.40 compensation in October 2019. Its not in dispute that RBS 
changed its position in 2020 when it told them that they shouldnt have been included in its 
remediation project in the first place. I can understand how annoyed Mr and Mrs B must has 
felt to hear that. I can also appreciate how frustrating it must have been for them to 
participate in the 2020 review, only to be told later that their participation was unnecessary. 
By including them in the 2020 review RBS wasted Mr and Mrs Bs time. RBS also raised 
Mr and Mrs Bs expectations, leading them to believe that they were likely to receive more 
compensation for costs that hadnt previously been considered by RBS in its October 2019 
offer. So I understand why Mr and Mrs B felt messed around and short-changed by RBS. 
However, my role isnt to punish RBS for what happened. I can see that it apologised to 
Mr and Mrs B. It also offered them £125 compensation for its actions in connection with its 
2020 telephone review. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept that money, but RBS have confirmed 
that it is still willing to give it to Mr and Mrs B. I can also see that in August 2021 RBS sent 
Mr and Mrs B a cheque for £500. That was compensation for the disappointment it caused 
Mr and Mrs B when it offset £500 compensation in December 2020. Mr and Mrs B have 
confirmed that they have cashed that cheque.
Mr and Mrs B dont think the compensation RBS offered after the 2019 settlement was 
enough. They want to be compensated for the extra costs they incurred in 2014 that were 
discussed in the 2020 telephone review, Mr B accepts that when he and Mrs B accepted 
£9,199.40 compensation in October 2019 they agreed to do so in full and final settlement of 
the matter. However, he doesnt think its right that they wont be able to get more 
compensation for the extra costs RBS accepts werent covered in 2019.
Ive considered the legal agreement made between Mr and Mrs B and RBS in October 2019. 
Mr and Mrs B agreed to accept £9,199.40 in full and final settlement of their complaint about 
the way their mortgage had been reduced. They signed a specific declaration to say the following:
We wish to accept the Banks net offer of £9,199.40, in full and final settlement of all or any 
claims which we might have against The Royal Bank of Scotland Group or any subsidiary 
companies in relation to the repayment guide plan review that took place of our Virgin One 
account mortgage.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs B think they should be offered more money to reflect costs that 
werent covered by this agreement. However, its clear from the wording above that they 
accepted RBS offer in full and final settlement of all or any claims they might have in 
relation to the repayment guide plan review. It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to interfere with the agreement they signed. If Mr and Mrs B want to challenge the 
legality of the agreement, then they would need to take that to court. This service wouldnt 
interfere with, or seek to overturn, a legal agreement thats been entered into between the 
parties.
I do empathise with Mr and Mrs B, and recognise that this decision is likely be disappointing 
to them. But based on what Ive seen, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require RBS to 
pay do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that the total compensation Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc have paid Mr and Mrs B in connection with this matter is fair and reasonable. It 
should pay them this money if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman