DRN-3362971
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the telematics used to analyse his driving under his Plug and 
Drive motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
Mr E bought a Plug and Drive policy. It came with a telematics unit that gave feedback on
his driving. Mr E bought the policy on the understanding that the device would be fitted to his
car for six months or until sufficient data had been collated to assess his driving. This meant 
Mr E might then be eligible for a discount based on his driving. After Mr E received a score 
he wasnt happy with he complained to Admiral. He said he was advised to drive faster 
which he said was irresponsible and dangerous given the areas in which he drove. 
Admiral said Mr Es driving achieved their second highest scoring level, but their telematics 
showed he at times drove slower than average and that some journeys took longer than was 
considered usual. So, this lowered his score.
Mr E wasnt happy with Admirals response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with their terms and 
conditions.
Mr E didnt agree he said that hed driven within the speed limits and appropriately for the 
locations he was driving in. He said Admiral should have checked this before deductions 
were made to his score. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The Plug and Drive policy is a type of car insurance which sees a small device, commonly 
called telematics fitted to a car to measure how its driven to reward safe drivers with a 
reduced premium.
The eligibility for the policy is the need to:
drive more than 1,900 miles-a-year
have a premium over £650
have a car worth more than £750 and less than 15 years old.
And from what I can see Mr E satisfied the eligibility for the policy.
Mr Es policy says the unit measures a range of driving behaviour including how the vehicle 
is driven, how far it travels, at what speed and the time of day it is used. A link is also 
provided to Admirals website which provides a guide about the insurance. I can see that this 
explains the unit considers, cornering, braking, length of journey and time of journey. So, I 
think this is clear that its not just the driving behaviour thats considered when determining 
the score.
The analysis of the data the unit collates also allows for the provision of feedback and uses 
all the data collected to work out a driving score. This driving score is what determines any 
potential discount that would be offered at renewal, the better the score, the better the 
discount.
I can understand Mr Es frustration as an experienced driver that he isnt scoring 100/100.  
Admiral has shown he is currently scoring 86/100 (the second highest). I can see Admiral 
have made clear they dont consider Mr E a poor driver and have commented on his high 
scores within some of the measures. But they have said there are some areas that are 
causing a reduction in his driving score. The three areas that have impacted Mr Es score 
are:
Hesitant Driving.
Local Driving. 
Road Types.
And I can see Admiral has provided examples of where these have had an impact on Mr Es 
driving score. Their statistics show a journey that should be completed in around 20 minutes 
had taken Mr E around one and a half hours. Theyve also averaged Mr Es speed, which 
they found to be low at times which theyve said suggests hesitancy in driving. I can see 
Admiral has  also commented that the low average speed could be due to being stuck in 
slow moving traffic which they say has its own risk. While I can understand Mr Es 
explanation for these examples, I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to take an overall 
view of the data collated by the unit.
As part of the policy Admiral give feedback to provide hints and tips to drivers to become a 
better risk and help improve the additional telematics discount at the next renewal if the 
driving is consistently good. I know Mr E has questioned this feedback as the suggestion 
was to increase his speed. But I dont think the inference was to drive dangerously but to 
bring to Mr Es attention the impact his low average speed was having on his score. And a 
suggested way to increase his driving score.
I know Mr E will be disappointed by my decision. But, on balance, I think Admiral did enough 
to explain how the policy worked. Mr Es policy isnt due for renewal until July 2022, and it 
will be at this point seen whether the telematics equate to a reduction in his renewed policy 
costs.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman