DRN-1809531
The complaint
Y, a sole trader, complains about how Gefion Insurance A/S handled a claim made on its 
commercial motor insurance policy and how it administered the policy. Y is represented in 
this matter by its owner, Mr F. 
What happened
Mr F had an accident in his van, and he reported this to Gefion. But it said he had reported 
this late and so it imposed a late reporting fee of £500. Mr Fs van was deemed to be beyond 
economical repair. Gefion offered him £9,486 as its pre-accident market value. But Mr F 
thought the van was worth £13,700. He wanted to put another van on his policy. But Gefion 
said he couldnt do this as the policy had cancelled according to the policy terms and 
conditions. So Mr F had to pay the rest of the years premiums and he then couldnt afford to 
replace his van. This meant that Mr F couldnt continue his trade and had to find other 
employment. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr F had 
tried to report the claim in time and she didnt think it being two days late had caused Gefion 
any prejudice. She thought Gefion had unfairly cancelled the policy as our approach is that 
consumers should be able to add a replacement van to the policy. She thought Gefion had 
undervalued Mr Fs van. And she thought Gefions handling of the claim had had a 
significant impact on Mr F.
To put things right, the investigator thought Gefion should refund the late reporting fee, with 
interest. She thought it should increase the vans valuation to £11,228.50 and pay Mr F the 
interest on the difference between this and the interim payment. She thought it should 
remove any cancellation marker and refund the cancellation fee with interest. And she 
thought it should pay Mr F £1,000 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Gefion replied that Mr F was required by the policy terms and conditions to report the claim 
earlier than he had done. It said this would have helped mitigate claim costs. It asked for 
confirmation that the van valued by the investigator was Mr Fs. It said there was no 
provision in the policy for adding another van in the case of total loss. It didnt think it needed 
to award Mr F any compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Gefion charged Mr F an additional excess for late reporting of the claim. I think the policy 
clearly states that Mr F must report any incident likely to give rise to a claim within 48 hours 
of the incident. It says that if he doesnt and the incident leads to a claim, then an additional 
policy excess of £500 will be applied. 
I think this is clearly stated at several points in the policy documents and so I think Gefion 
can reasonably rely on it to impose the additional excess. But Ive also considered whether 
this is fair and reasonable in Mr Fs particular circumstances. 
Mr F has explained that he was unable to access his policy documents online. So when he 
had the accident, he called his broker. It told him to call Gefion within 48 hours. Mr F said he 
called the broker the next day and was transferred to Gefion, but the number rang out. He 
then called the broker again and was put through to the accident management team that 
would be handling the claim. He gave his details and a claim number was provided. But he 
was also told he would need to speak to Gefion. Mr F didnt have sufficient time to do this 
then. But Mr F said he was told he could leave that to the following Monday. 
I think Mr F was aware that he had to report the accident to Gefion within 48 hours. I think he 
knew that he may incur charges if he didnt do this. But I think Mr F thought he had reported 
the accident as required. He didnt know Gefion was open all weekend, so he waited until 
Monday morning. In any case, I cant see that Gefion has provided evidence that the late 
reporting has prejudiced the claim. So I think its unfair for it to apply this additional excess. 
And so I think it should refund this amount, with interest. 
Our investigator thought Gefion had undervalued Mr Fs van. So Ive checked how she came 
to this conclusion. The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. 
We dont provide valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
The investigator thought Gefion had made a mistake in the model of Mr Fs van. And, 
looking at its valuation of the van and the specification on the engineers report, I agree. I 
think the investigator then looked for vans of the same make, model, age, condition and 
mileage as Mr Fs van. The policy provides for the trade value in the case of total loss. She 
found valuations in three guides. In keeping with our approach, she discounted one valuation 
that was out of keeping with the others. The other guides gave a range between £11,250 
and £11,207. The average of these was £11,228.50. 
I think the investigator correctly checked the valuation of the van in keeping with our 
approach. So I agree that Gefion undervalued Mr Fs van. I think it should increase its 
valuation to £11,228.50. Mr F has been without his money for some time, so I think Gefion 
should reasonably add interest to the difference between this valuation and the interim 
settlement its made. 
Gefion cancelled Mr Fs policy because his van was declared a total loss. I can see that this 
is set out in the policy terms and conditions, but I dont think this is fair or reasonable. This is 
because our approach is that when an insurer declares a vehicle a total loss, we expect it to 
offer the consumer the option of bringing a replacement vehicle onto the policy so that the 
rest of the policy year can be used. And wed expect it to allow the consumer a reasonable 
amount of time to do this. 
Mr F said he had a replacement vehicle at the ready. So I think it was unfair for Gefion not to 
offer Mr F the option of adding a replacement vehicle to the policy. Gefion then cancelled the 
policy and charged a cancellation fee. I think this was unfair in Mr Fs particular 
circumstances as it hadnt given Mr F the option of adding a new vehicle onto the policy and Mr F had a replacement van available within a reasonable time. So I think Gefion should 
reasonably remove any cancellation marker and refund the cancellation fee, with interest. 
I think the charge of the late payment fee, the under-valuing of the van, and the cancellation 
of the policy without a refund of premium had a substantial impact on Mr F and his livelihood. 
He could no longer afford to lease a van, he couldnt afford insurance, he had to repay the 
outstanding balance on his van lease, and he had to take up low paid work in a different 
sector. 
I think Gefions unfair and unreasonable handling of his claim has caused Mr F significant 
stress, inconvenience and upset. I agree with the investigators recommendation that Gefion 
should pay Mr F £1,000 compensation for this. I say this because this award is in keeping 
with what Id require in similar situations where an insurers actions have had a substantial 
impact on a policyholder. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Y, I require Gefion Insurance A/S to do the following:
1. Refund Y the £500 additional policy excess, adding interest at 8% simple from the date 
of the claim payment to the date of settlement .
2. Pay Y £11,228.50 in settlement of its claim for the loss of the van, less the policy excess 
and the interim payment already made, adding interest at 8% simple per annum to the 
resulting sum from the date of the interim payment to the date of settlement . 
3. Refund any cancellation fees, adding interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement . 
4. Remove any cancellation markers from Ys and/or Mr Fs records where its been 
recorded. 
5. Pay Y £1,000 compensation for the significant distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of its claim.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gefion to take off tax from this interest. Gefion must give 
Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if it asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Gefion Insurance A/S to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman