DRN-3202732
Complaint
Miss G has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), amongst other things, unfairly 
continued applying charges on her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Gs complaint and thought HSBC should have 
realised Miss Gs overdraft had already become unsustainable by September 2014. So it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Miss Gs overdraft from this 
point. HSBC disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from September 2014. By this 
point, it was evident Miss G was struggling financially. 
Miss Gs statements leading up to this period show that shed been struggling to maintain 
her overdraft at its limit for an extended period of time. Her account displayed a clear pattern 
of constantly being at the limit by the time her wages were due to be credited. In some 
instances she even exceeding her limit. In my view, this was a clear indication Miss G was 
struggling to manage. So I think that by September 2014 HSBC should have stopped 
providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Miss G with forbearance rather than 
adding even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
Ive seen HSBCs argument regarding Miss Gs failure to get in touch when she ought to 
have realised about the fees causing difficulty. But this is an argument regarding time limits. 
And there isnt any dispute that Miss G complained about the charges Ive looked at in this 
decision, within the applicable time limit. So I dont see the relevance of the point HSBC has 
made and most importantly, I dont see how this alters the fact that the circumstances 
warranted it taking action in relation to Miss Gs overdraft by September 2014.
All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Miss G was experiencing difficulty and 
proactively offered her help to repay what she owed. As HSBC didnt react to Miss Gs 
account usage, and instead simply continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably. Miss G ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time 
when she was already experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Miss G lost out because 
of what HSBC did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Miss G
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Gs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from September 2014 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Miss G to arrange a suitable repayment plan. If 
it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Gs credit file, it 
should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in September 2014. HSBC can also reduce 
Miss Gs overdraft limit by the amount of any refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss G along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Gs credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Miss Gs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Gs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman