DRN-4252233
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt provide him with the service it should have 
when he accidentally repaid his loan.
What happened
Mr R was provided with a £15,000 fixed sum loan in November 2022. The loan had a term of 
24 months and the first repayment of around £657 was made in December 2022. 
On 7 January 2023, Mr R says that he was looking at the loan on his online app and 
accidentally repaid it. The money was taken from his account immediately and when he 
realised his mistake, he contacted HSBC through its chat facility and was told to call the 
bank. When he called, he was put on hold for a while and was then told his mistake could be 
reversed but he should call again the next day during UK working hours. Mr R did this and 
waited a long time for the call to be answered, was then put on hold for a long time and the 
call then disconnected. Mr R called back and after a long wait he says he didnt get a 
satisfactory answer. Mr R says HSBC credited his account with £50 which he considers an 
insult given the time and money he has spent on this issue. 
HSBC issued a final response letter dated 17 January 2023. It said that Mr R contacted it to 
close his loan account, and this happened on 7 January 2023. It said once a loan has been 
closed it cannot reopen it. It said its personal loan interest rates are based on customers' 
individual financial circumstances and that any rate provided to a customer at quotation 
stage is indicative, and can only be confirmed once a full application and assessment have 
been completed.
HSBC then issued a further final response letter dated 18 January which reiterated the 
points made in the previous final response letter but also apologised for the poor service and 
number of calls Mr R had needed to make following the closure of his loan. Because of this it 
credited his account with £50.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with the response from HSBC and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that HSBC had accepted and 
apologised for the shortfall in service provided to Mr R. He thought the compensation paid 
was reasonable.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the compensation paid was an insult 
and the amount of money he spent on phone calls and the time was enormous. He said he 
was misled by the HSBC employees and his time and money wasted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R was provided with a fixed sum loan by HSBC in November 2022. In January 2023, he 
has explained that he accidentally repaid the loan. This was Mr Rs mistake, and not the 
banks. That said I would expect HSBC to provide Mr R with a reasonable level of service 
when he contacted it to see if his loan closure could be reversed.
I have looked through the information provided and listened to the calls. On the first call with 
HSBC Mr R is told that the loan cannot be re-opened but he can reapply. Mr R said he had 
tried this, but the interest rate was much higher. Mr R was transferred, and, on this call, he 
was told to contact the lending team and given the hours the team would be open. Mr R 
asked that the lending team call him, and the adviser said she would call him back. Mr R 
asked if it was possible to reverse his action of repaying the loan and he was incorrectly told 
this could be possible. Mr R questions on several occasions whether the loan repayment can 
be reversed, and the adviser confirms it can. Mr R then asks about why the interest rate offer 
he was given increase to over 18%. 
On a call on 9 January, Mr R is put on hold while his account is checked. He is then told that 
this issue cannot be rectified, and the previous loan cant be re-opened. Mr R is told that he 
will need to reapply. Mr R said he had been given incorrect information about this and 
reiterated that he tried to reapply for the loan and the interest rate was much higher. Mr R 
then spoke to another adviser and explained he had been cut off from another call and that 
he had been promised a call back previously and this hadnt happened. He is told the 
adviser will contact the underwriting team and then call him back once they were available. 
I note Mr Rs comments about the misinformation he was given and can see that HSBC has 
said that feedback will be provided. When misleading information is given, we do not require 
the bank to act as if the incorrect information was correct, instead we would expect the bank 
to put the customer back in the position they would have been had the incorrect information 
not been given. In this case, Mr R had already repaid his loan and HSBC has confirmed that 
once a loan account has been closed it cannot be reopened. Therefore, I wouldnt expect 
HSBC to reverse the closure due to the incorrect information that was given.
Mr R has said he reapplied for the loan following his accidental repayment and was offered a 
much higher rate of interest. I note Mr Rs comment that he should have received the same 
interest rate as he did when he received the loan in November 2022. HSBC has explained 
how interest rates on personal loans are determined and noted the loan applications Mr R 
had made. As it was Mr Rs mistake to repay his loan, I do not find that HSBC was required 
to provide a new loan on the same terms as the repaid loan, and I find it has provided Mr R 
with a reasonable amount of information to explain the difference in the interest rates.
Mr R wasnt provided the service he should have been, and HSBC has acknowledged this. 
Mr R was given incorrect information which led him to believe his loan could be reinstated. 
He was promised a call back that didnt happen at the time agreed and a call was 
disconnected. I have considered the upset caused by being given the incorrect information 
but also note that the correct information was provided to him when he first called and two 
days later. I note Mr R had to be put on hold and understand that as he was calling from 
aboard this was expensive to him. But as Mr R was trying to reverse a mistake he had made 
it is reasonable that he will need to spend time on this. It was his circumstances that meant 
the calls were more expensive. The advisers put him on hold to try to find the information 
about his account and get the answers for him. That said, there were other instances when 
the calls were disconnected, and a call back didnt happen at the time arranged. Therefore, I 
agree that compensation should be provided to Mr R.
HSBC paid Mr R £50 compensation. Mr R has referred to this as an insult. When deciding 
what is a reasonable level of compensation, I have taken into account that the repayment of 
the loan wasnt a mistake by the bank and so compensation is for the service provided on the calls. I have considered the upset caused by the incorrect information but also that Mr R 
was provided with the correct information within a reasonable period of time. I note Mr Rs 
comments about his time and the value of this, but I have considered what is a fair amount 
of compensation for a call back not happening and the issues with calls disconnecting.
Having done so, while I know Mr R will not be happy with my decision, I think the £50 
compensation paid by HSBC is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman