DRN-3934809
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) provided under 
his Home Care insurance policy. 
What happened
On 7 February 2022 Mr H noticed an unusual noise coming from his boiler. He called British 
Gas who arranged an appointment for 28 February 2022. On 25 February 2022 British Gas 
called to say it would have to cancel the appointment. Mr H was given a further appointment 
for 21 March 2022.
Mr H was unhappy with the cancellation and the delay, so he complained. British Gas 
apologised but the appointment remained as cancelled. British Gas offered Mr H £30 
compensation for the inconvenience. British Gas attended on 21 March 2022 and replaced 
the synchronic motor on the boiler which had been buzzing. 
Mr H remained unhappy, so he brought a complaint to our service. An investigator reviewed 
the complaint and said that British Gas had done enough to address the problem. 
As Mr H doesnt agree, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H says that having waited three weeks for the original appointment, a further three-week 
wait wasnt reasonable. He says no reason was ever given to him as to why British Gas 
couldnt reschedule sooner. He says its comments surrounding this were vague and he says 
British Gass handling of his complaint was poor. 
My role is to decide if British Gas has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with its policy 
terms and conditions. 
The policy says Visiting you  Reasonable timescales  Well carry out any repairs or visits 
youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes that 
impossible -in which case well let you know as soon as possible, and give you another time 
when we can visit
British Gas has advised that during that specific period, February/March 2022 there was a 
high demand on its services. It says there were a lot of customers with no heat or water, and 
it will always prioritise its vulnerable customers in this situation. British Gas says that in these 
types of situations it regretfully has to cancel less urgent appointments, and thats what 
happened in Mr Hs case. It says it called Mr H three days prior to the appointment and it 
rearranged for the next possible date. British Gas has apologised and has offered £30 in 
compensation to reflect any inconvenience on Mr H.
Looking through Mr Hs file I cant see that he has told us about any urgency on the repair. 
Nor has he told us that he was vulnerable or that the rearranged appointment didnt suit. I 
agree that three weeks could be deemed a long time to wait. But I can see British Gas had 
noted the issue on its system. It assessed the seriousness of the issue, and it decided that 
an urgent repair was not required. So British Gas made the decision to push Mr Hs repair 
out by a few weeks whilst it dealt with its more vulnerable customers. This is the right thing 
for British Gas to do and is in line with its policy term. 
I dont believe British Gas needed to explain why it cancelled the appointment or couldnt 
provide a sooner one. As long as it gave sufficient notice and attended the rearranged 
appointment for a non-urgent issue it has fulfilled its obligation under the terms of the policy. 
In this instance I can see that further to fulfilling the appointment and carrying out the repair 
as promised, it apologised to Mr H, and offered him £30 in compensation. 
An apology can often be enough to remedy these types of mistakes, as long as they cause 
minimal impact and are put right quickly. Using financial services wont always be totally 
hassle free and we wouldnt make awards for things that arent more serious than the normal 
nuisances of everyday life. Typically, a small monetary award will fairly compensate a one-
off incident such as a short delay. As such Im satisfied that the apology given by British Gas 
alongside the £30 compensation it has offered is sufficient for both the inconvenience 
suffered by Mr H, and any service issues Mr H feels may have occurred when he 
complained.  I know Mr H will be disappointed. But British Gas has acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with its policy terms. So, I wont be asking British Gas to do any more. 
If British Gas hasnt already paid Mr H the £30 compensation, it should do so now. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman