DRN-3366463
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited dealt with his claim against his legal
expense insurance. Reference to Amtrust includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr A has legal expense insurance as part of his home insurance. 
He bought a new build property with a completion date in July 2020. There were 
numerous problems with the property: Mr A has referred to over 400 defects. I understand 
that Mr A has the benefit of a warranty in relation to the building works.
In early May 2021, Mr A contacted Amtrust in order to report a claim. He said that he 
wanted to claim against the builder for compensation for loss in value of his home, 
personal injury and loss of earnings in taking time off to deal with both rectification works 
and his claim under the warranty. Essentially, Mr A wants to use his legal expense 
insurance to pursue the builder for losses not covered by the warranty.
Initially, Amtrust said that Mr As claim didnt fall within the provisions relating to contract 
disputes, as it didnt relate to the purchase of goods or services. It also said that Mr As 
claim didnt fall within the property protection provisions. Mr A didnt agree and provided 
further information.
Amtrust apologised for overlooking Mr As personal injury claim and reviewed Mr As claim 
for breach of contract. It said that whilst Mr As contract with the builder might be a contract 
for services and therefore covered under the policy, his claim is excluded as its for more 
than £5,000. Ill refer in more detail below to the exclusion on which Amtrust relies. Mr A 
didnt agree with Amtrusts conclusions and said that the exclusion didnt apply
to his claim, as he was claiming less than £5,000.
In mid May 2021, Amtrust said it would review the claim and asked Mr A whether he 
wanted to use a panel solicitor or to instruct his own solicitor. In mid July 2021, Mr A asked 
for an update and Amtrust said that it was waiting to hear how he wanted to proceed. Mr A 
told Amtrust that he wanted to instruct a panel solicitor. The panel solicitor reviewed both 
claims.
In August 2021, Amtrust declined both claims. In relation to the contract claim, Amtrust 
relied on its panel solicitors opinion which said that the claim is likely to be for more than
£5,000, so excluded under the policy. Amtrust said that there wasnt sufficient information 
to enable an assessment of the prospects of success of Mr As personal injury claim.
Mr A says that Amtrust delayed reviewing his claims, incorrectly refused them and 
delayed dealing with his complaint. He wants Amtrust to pay any fees hes incurred, 
compensate him for stress, apologise for the delays and poor service and instruct a 
solicitor to continue the claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Amtrust had 
treated Mr A fairly in relying on the exclusion in the policy in relation to Mr As contract 
claim. The investigator said that was because Mr As claim was for less than £5,000.
The investigator thought that Amtrust had acted unreasonably in declining Mr As claim 
in relation to personal injury. She thought that Amtrust should have asked Mr A for the 
additional information it needed, rather than decline the claim.
The investigator proposed that Amtrust ask Mr A for evidence of his losses for the 
contract claim then instruct its panel solicitors to review the matter. She said that when 
Mr A had provided further information about his personal injury claim it should ask its 
panel solicitors for a further assessment. The investigator recommended that Amtrust 
pay Mr A compensation of £100 in relation to the level of service hed received.
Amtrust didnt agree with the investigator. It said, in summary:
It had invited Mr A to provide further information about his personal injury claim 
when it declined the claim.
The policy requires Mr A to supply all of the information it reasonably requires to 
deal with a claim and it didnt receive further information from Mr A.
It previously offered to consider Mr As contract claim further if he provided 
information and doesnt feel that the information Mr A provided to this service 
about that is sufficient.
The value of the contract dispute is over £5,000 and the intention of the policy 
isnt to cover such a dispute.
If Mr A provides the requested further information, it will consider both matters 
further.
The investigator considered what Amtrust said but didnt change her view. Amtrust asked 
that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 3 February 2022, I sent the parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt propose to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as
follows:
Conditions
Claims
[]
i) You must supply at Your own expense all of the information which We reasonably
require to decide whether a claim may be accepted. []
Prospects of success
At any time We may, but only when supported by independent legal advice, form the view
that You do not have a more than 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a positiveoutcome. If so, We may decline support or any further support.[]
2.Contract disputes
What is covered?
Costs to pursue a Legal Action following a breach of a contract You have for buying []
goods or services for Your private use []. The contract must have been made after You
first purchased this insurance and the amount in dispute must be more than £250 (including
VAT).
[]
What is not covered?
Claims
[]
f) Directly or indirectly arising from constructing buildings or altering their structure for Your
use, except in relation to disputes where the amount in dispute is below £5,000 including
VAT.
3.Personal injury
What is covered?
Costs to pursue a Legal Action following an accident resulting in Your personal injury or
death against the person or organisation directly responsible.
have the claims been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Amtrust has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr A complains about how Amtrust handled his complaint. Our service can only consider
complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the points that Mr A has raised
about the handling of his complaint because it isnt a regulated activity. But I can look at
whether Amtrust acted in accordance with the policy terms and fairly and reasonably in
dealing with and declining Mr As claims.
When an insurer has declined claims in a case like this, it isnt for us to look at the merits of
the underlying claims. Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted fairly and reasonably in
coming to its decisions. I think that Amtrust acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr As
claims. Ill explain why.
The contract dispute
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An
insurer will decide what risks it is willing to cover and set these out in the terms and
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the
policy, the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Amtrust asked its panel solicitors to review Mr As claim. Insurers are able to rely on
the legal advice and opinions provided by a suitably qualified lawyer, provided that
the advice or opinion is not obviously wholly incorrect when viewed from the
perspective of a lay person.
Amtrusts panel solicitors said that they thought Mr As claim was for  at least
£6,000 if not more, albeit that is a rough estimate.When Mr A first reported the claim to Amtrust, he said that he wanted
compensation for diminution in the value of his property and reimbursement for his
time dealing with repairs and his warranty claim. Given that was what Mr A was
claiming, I dont think that Amtrust was wrong to rely on its panel solicitors view
about the likely value of the claim.
In declining Mr As claim, Amtrust said that if the claim doesnt exceed £5,000 it will
reconsider the matter. I think that was fair.
In response to the investigators enquiries, Mr A said that his claim is for the cost of
the experts report which was £2,500, or £5,000 if theres litigation, £500 insurance
excess and loss of earnings of £600 to £700.
Amtrust says that it will consider the matter further if Mr A provides more
information about his claim. I think thats fair. If Mr A wishes to pursue this matter
he should provide Amtrust with details of the individual items and amounts he
claims, with evidence in support where thats available.
While its not central to the outcome of this complaint, the proposal of 25 April 2021
from the expert provides costings for certain steps up to but excluding attendance
at court. The proposal says that Mr A should budget £5,000 for the experts report.
Ive seen nothing to support Mr As assertion that the experts report cost £2,500. If
the claim Mr A wishes to pursue against the builder is for more than £5,000, it wont
be covered by the policy.
Amtrust says that that its not its intention that the policy cover disputes where the
value is over £5,000. I dont think that the total value of Mr As dispute with the
builder - that is, including the costs of repairs - is relevant here. Thats because
Mr A is claiming against his legal expenses policy to recover losses not covered by
the warranty, so hes not claiming for the costs of repairs covered by the 
warranty.
The personal injury claim
As Ive set out above, the policy provides that Amtrust, supported by independent
legal advice, may decline a claim or withdraw funding if it doesnt think that theres
more than a 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a positive outcome.
Thats a very common provision in legal expenses insurance. We dont consider this
sort of requirement inherently unfair. An insurer cant reasonably be expected to fund
cases where its more likely than not that the case will fail.
Amtrust asked its panel solicitors to assess Mr As personal injury claim. The panel
solicitors said that it didnt have sufficient information to assess the prospects of
success and listed the sort of information that was required. It also said that there
may be concerns about whether the costs of pursuing the matter are proportionate to
the likely value of the claim.
I think that Amtrust was entitled to rely on its panel solicitors assessment of Mr As
personal injury claim. In Amtrusts letter to Mr A of 12 August 2021, it relayed the
panels solicitors assessment and set out what Mr A could do if he disagreed: it said
that Mr A could submit any further information or documentation for review by the
panel solicitors or provide an opinion about prospects of success from his own
solicitor at his expense. I dont think that Amtrust needed to do more at that stage.Amtrust says that it will consider the matter further if Mr A provides more information.
If Mr A wishes to pursue this matter he may wish to provide Amtrust with the
evidence listed in its letter to him of 12 August 2021.
Amtrusts handling of the claims
Amtrust overlooked Mr As claim in relation to personal injury at the outset. I dont
think that Amtrust is right to say that it wasnt clear from Mr As initial claim that he
wanted to make a personal injury claim. But Amtrust put this right quite quickly. I
dont think that Amtrusts initial error in overlooking the claim delayed matters unduly.
Initially, Amtrust said that Mr As contract claim wasnt covered because it didnt
relate to the purchase of goods or services. It reviewed that when Mr A provided
further information. I think that was the right thing to do. Whilst this was no doubt
frustrating for Mr A, I dont think that Amtrusts initial position caused significant
delay.
Based on what Ive seen, I think that between mid May 2021 and mid July 2021,
Amtrust was waiting to hear from Mr A about whether he wanted to instruct the panel
solicitors or his own solicitors. There may well have been some confusion here, but I
dont think I can fairly say that Amtrust was responsible for this delay.
Considering everything, I think that Amtrusts offers to review matters if Mr A provides the
further information Ive referred to above is fair. I dont propose to direct it to do any 
more.
Responses to my provisional decision
Amtrust said that it had no further comments. Mr A didnt provide a substantive response 
to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is an informal alternative to the courts; were impartial and we dont take either 
sides instruction about how we investigate a complaint. Our role is to consider all of the 
evidence we receive, decide whats relevant (and what isnt) to reaching a fair outcome, and 
come to a conclusion about how we think the dispute should be settled.
Im aware of Mr As request to speak with me in order to aid his understanding of my 
provisional decision. I didnt think that was appropriate in the circumstances and I note Mr A 
was offered alternative adjustments to our standard process to ensure hes not at a 
disadvantage. Im sorry to see that Mr A didnt take them up. But Im satisfied I  have enough 
information to reach a fair conclusion in this case, and as neither party has provided any 
substantive comments following my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it. My 
provisional findings now form part of this final decision. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman