DRN-3787786
The complaint
In April 2017, company R invested £1,000 in a Cash Bond with Basset & Gold Plc (B&G 
Plc). Mr L, director acting on behalf of R, said the Bond was mis-sold as assurance was 
given that the investment was protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS).
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
R invested in a B&G Plc Cash Bond. Sales of this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold 
Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd 
arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it 
was responsible for advertising and marketing the bond. Potential investors were also 
able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium 
from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Rs investment in the bond
Mr L, acting on behalf of R, found B&G Plc online while looking for an 
investment to provide good returns. 
The application for the investment was made via the BG Ltd website.
R had no investment history or experience. In his personal capacity, Mr L had 
invested in peer to peer lending, which has continued to provide good returns. 
Subsequently, Mr L had discovered that other personal investments were not 
made through an authorised company and the investments were unsuitable for 
retail investors. However, at the time of the investment with BG Ltd, Mr L was 
unaware of any issues and in any event R was a separate legal entity so I place 
limited weight on Mr Ls personal investment experience. 
I have been supplied with a number of call recordings, most of which occurred 
after the application was made, save for one which I have addressed in my 
findings.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short 
term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck 
went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, R has not had its invested capital returned.
The application process
Mr L, acting on behalf of R, applied on line for the bond.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show 
the application journey undertaken at the time. This consisted of two stages, designed 
to meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test 
whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where R was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the 
appropriateness test. Galliums response to Rs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Rs complaint. It said sufficient information and risk warnings about 
the investment had been given. It then made further submissions, once Rs complaint was 
referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also considered what 
Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general information on the 
background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Rs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of R as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond - 
was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs 
rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, R wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should 
have concluded that it shouldnt allow R to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium 
to compensate R for the loss it has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Our findings went beyond the scope of Rs complaint
Regardless of label, R was required to confirm that it met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that it did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed an incorrect declaration being 
made, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
The investment was made on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and R 
did not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So R would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
Mr L had investments in peer to peer lending and other investments. This showed he 
had relevant experience of similar products to the B&G Plc bonds.
As the parties do not agree the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the releavant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled R into certifying that it belonged to a 
category to which it did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating R fairly or acting in its best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled R, it is unlikely it would 
have certified itself as being a restricted investor.
I place weight upon Mr Ls recollection that BG Ltds representative misled 
him, when he was acting on behalf of R. Ive listened to a call from the time, in 
which BG Ltd said it didnt matter which category R selected. Again this was 
misleading. Its plain from the call that Mr L, acting on behalf of R, was seeking 
assistance and would reasonably rely upon what he was told. Calls after the 
event suggest that BG Ltd had recorded R as an everyday investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been 
apparent the bond was not an appropriate investment for R. In the circumstances 
R would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should 
have concluded it should not promote the bond to R.Little weight is to be placed on the assertions about Mr Ls personal investment 
experience, as the investment was made by a separate legal entity, R, a limited 
company. Im not persuaded it has been shown that this was properly considered 
by Gallium.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Rs complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied R would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate R for its loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put R as 
close to the position it would probably now be in if R had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what R would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Rs circumstances and objectives when it invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate R fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Gallium should provide details of its calculation to R in a clear, simple format.
Tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 
Cash BondStill exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided R agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from R that it repays to Gallium any amount 
it may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
R wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for those prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given R's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above to R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman