DRN-2478733
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) havent upheld a 
claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr C made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as Mr C wasnt provided with all of the 
facilities a business class customer could expect. I think an important aspect of those 
services is the ability to fully recline the seat to help the passenger sleep and its clear that 
wasnt provided.
But the reclining seat wasnt the only benefit Mr Cs Club World ticket provided. The ticket 
provided access to lounges; a three-course meal selection, luxury bedding; a luxury amenity 
kit; a flat screen TV and noise cancelling headphones; power supply and an increased 
baggage allowance.
Mr C didnt relocate to a cheaper section of the aeroplane so I think its clear he would have 
continued to benefit from those services although I accept it would have been frustrating not 
to have been able to lie down to sleep and that facility would have been important.
Taking all that into account I dont think the suppliers offer of £400 is unreasonable but I do 
think AESEL should have supported Mr Cs claim and accepted there had been a breach of 
contract and offered the same amount. Im therefore asking them to do so.
  
Putting things right
AESEL should pay Mr C £400 to compensate him for the lack of a fully reclining seat on one 
leg of the journey.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell American Express 
Services Europe Limited to pay Mr C £400 in compensation for the unsatisfactory quality of 
one leg of the flight he paid for.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman