DRN-2692680
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt refund him for several disputed
transactions.
What happened
Between March and April 2019, Mr R says he decided to purchase bitcoin via a third-party
website  that Ill refer to as C. Mr R says after initially completing a form online, he was
contacted by someone who he believed to be a representative of C. Mr R says he later
agreed an initial purchase amount and handed over his credit card details to make payment.
Mr R says he was contacted by Cs representative asking for his debit card details because
they couldnt complete the transaction using the credit card  so Mr R handed these details
over too, along with a copy of his ID.
In April, Barclays contacted Mr R to verify payments that had been attempted from his
account. At this point, Mr R found out that around £30,000 had debited his account. After
various attempts to contact Cs representative, Mr R soon established that hed been the
victim of a scam. It later transpired that the person(s) Mr R believed to be a representative of
C, had in fact impersonated Mr R, set up an account and purchased bitcoin via C. Mr R
confirmed he had no access to the investment.
Mr R raised a chargeback request with Barclays who sent him a copy of Cs file showing a
bitcoin account had been set up in Mr Rs name. The bank asked Mr R to respond within 10
days  Barclays says he didnt reply in time, so the chargeback request wasnt taken further.
Mr R complained to Barclays and then asked this service to get involved after being unhappy
with the banks reply.
Barclays told us that C had provided evidence of the transactions and that the account had
been set up in Mr Rs name. It also said that Mr R confirmed hed authorised the
transactions during a telephone call with the bank in April 2019  but a month later, he went
on to say that he didnt recognise the transactions.
Mr R says he only ever agreed an initial purchase amount of £5,000 and later agreed a
further £10,000  but the fraudster took more than agreed. Our investigator concluded that,
although Mr R was a victim of a sophisticated scam, it seems he authorised some of the
transactions. And given we can only ask Barclays to refund him for unauthorised
transactions, she decided that the bank should give Mr R a partial refund of the payments
that were unauthorised  which was a little below £10,000. In addition, the investigator
recommended that Barclays pay Mr R £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
it caused him by not resolving this matter sooner.
Barclays has agreed with the investigators recommendation. Mr R didnt agree  he says
the amount he agreed to purchase isnt important, as the total loss he suffered was subject
to the scam. Mr R says he wants at least £20,000 refunded to him. As he didnt agree, the
complaint has been passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 9 March 2021, setting out that I intended to uphold the 
complaint in part and instruct Barclays to pay Mr R £9,996 - along with any associated 
interest or charges and 8% simple interest. I also intended to instruct Barclays to pay Mr R 
£75 compensation. Ive set out my provisional findings below:
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr R liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. The relevant
regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017).
Were the payments authorised?
Mr R told us that he handed his card details over to the fraudster  so Im satisfied that the
genuine card was used to carry out the disputed transactions. This was clearly a very
sophisticated scam and I empathise with the situation Mr R has found himself in. However,
having considered all the information, I agree that Mr R consented to some of the disputed
transactions and Ill explain why.
Mr R told us that he initially agreed to a £5,000 purchase of bitcoin. This corresponds with
the first payment from his account. Ive seen some of the email correspondence between
Mr R and the fraudster, and I can see Mr R actively engaged with them by sending over
sensitive information such as his ID and signature. So Im satisfied that Mr R consented to
the first payment of £5,000. The fraudster then went on to debit around another £25,000
from Mr Rs account in several instalments  so Ive gone on to consider which of these
individual payments were consented to.
On 9 April 2019, Barclays contacted Mr R to check whether the recent attempted payments
from his account were genuine. Having listened to this call, it seems its at this point that
Mr R noticed that something may have gone wrong. During the call, the banks call handler
set out the various transactions that had successfully debited Mr Rs account and set out
that further transactions had been attempted but failed. Mr R indicated that the transactions
were genuine. On more than one occasion, Mr R explained that hed agreed to a purchase
amount of €10,000 at first and then recently agreed to further purchases of a similar amount.
Ive also seen an email Mr R sent to the fraudster the same day  most likely after he spoke
to Barclays. In this email, Mr R wrote I meant 20k in total. So, on balance, I think Mr R also
consented to the following three payments (all of which, including the initial payment, amount
to around €20,000):
£3,390 on 18 March
£4,998 on 8 April
£5,000 on 8 April
I am persuaded by Mr Rs testimony  that he genuinely believed he was in contact with
someone that represented C and acted accordingly. But, as I explained, regulations say that
Mr R is liable for transactions that he authorised. I think Mr R authorised the payments Ive
described above, so I wont be asking Barclays to refund these payments.
In the email Mr R sent on 9 April and the call that took place with the bank on the same day,
Mr R makes it clear that he didnt agree to invest more that €20,000. So any further
payments from Mr Rs account wouldnt have been consented to and I dont think he should
be liable for these. Mr R already received a refund from C for one of these payments, so the
ones that remain that I think were not consented to are:£4,997 on 8 April
£4,999 on 8 April
Excepted contract
In addition to the above, all the disputed transactions were completed online - without C or
Mr R being physically present. Under the PSRs, this is therefore considered a distance
contract. And as the payments were made towards an investment service, the transactions
would be considered as excepted contracts. This means that Barclays can hold Mr R
responsible for them if he has with intent or gross negligence failed to keep his card and PIN
secure, observe the terms and conditions of the account or report his card/PIN lost or stolen
without undue delay.
As I said earlier, Im of the view that Mr R was under a genuine belief that he was liaising
with C, a genuine merchant. The fraudster seemingly went out of his way to fuel this belief 
such as setting up an actual bitcoin account with C under Mr Rs name and sending Mr R
regular statements to keep up the appearance that Mr R had genuinely profited from his
investment. And, from what Mr R says, the fraudster got in touch after Mr R filled out a form
online.
So he had no reason to believe something was wrong or that he was handing over sensitive
information to a fraudster. Instead, he believed he was dealing with a genuine merchant and
so - in these circumstances - it is normal to share your card details in order to make a
payment. Therefore, Im not of the view that Mr R failed with intent or was grossly negligent.
Should the bank have stepped in earlier?
Like our investigator set out in her opinion, banks are expected to check unusual
transactions that dont fit the usual pattern of spending on an account. In this instance
Barclays did take steps to check whether the payments were genuine when it contacted
Mr R on 9 April. But each payment was for a fairly significant sum and most of the
transactions were carried out in a short period. And theres nothing Ive seen that suggests
the payments fitted Mr Rs usual pattern of spending. So, Barclays couldve stepped in
sooner to check whether the payments were genuine. But, even if the bank did get involved
sooner, I dont think this wouldve made a difference.
In the call on 9 April, Mr R seemed confident that the transactions were genuine and, by this
point, hed agreed to invest around £20,000. Had the bank reached out sooner than this, its
likely it wouldve asked similar questions around whether Mr R had authorised the payments.
This isnt always enough of course  wed expect Barclays to probe further and warn Mr R
about the potential for scams. But even if the bank had explored things further  such as ask
Mr R about what the payments were for or who the payments were being made to  this is
also unlikely to have made a difference.
C is a genuine business that allows customers to invest in bitcoin. C has its own website and
appears to have provided its service to many other customers. Mr R says he filled in a form
on Cs website in order to start engaging in the service C provides. It seems this initial
interaction was intercepted by the fraudster who then engaged with Mr R and made him
believe he was talking to someone from C. The fraudster was also able to use Mr Rs details
to set up a genuine bitcoin account with C  albeit Mr R didnt directly have access to it. So
its likely Mr R wouldve reassured Barclays that C was a genuine company and that hed
agreed to invest in bitcoin using Cs services.
If Barclays had checked itself, it wouldve seen that C is a genuine business and that is who
the payments were being made to. So I wouldnt have expected it to have any concernsthere. Its also the case that Mr R sought out the investment opportunity, rather than
receiving a cold call. So again, this wouldnt have seemed as suspicious to Barclays had it
asked questions.
So, even if Barclays had contacted Mr R sooner, I dont think its reasonable to conclude in
these circumstances that it couldve detected that Mr R was in fact corresponding with
someone pretending to work for C. Im therefore minded to conclude that Barclays is, on
balance, unlikely to have been able to prevent the scam from taking place.
Distress and inconvenience
However, the bank couldve done better at resolving this complaint sooner. Mr Rs
chargeback request was closed because he didnt respond in time. But Mr R was clear in
that hed only consented to purchases to the value of €20,000. So Barclays shouldve
realised that its likely that Mr R didnt authorise some of the disputed payments. Had it done
so, Mr R couldve been refunded at least some of his money sooner. Mr R has clearly been
affected having been a victim of this scam and I dont think the bank did enough to help him
 causing him further distress and inconvenience.
To summarise, Mr R has clearly been the victim of a very sophisticated scam, which
unfortunately has resulted in him losing a significant amount of his money. The rules only
allow me to instruct Barclays to refund payments that Mr R didnt consent to. For the reasons
above, I think Mr R consented to some of the disputed payments, so I intend to instruct
Barclays to refund the payments that werent authorised.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays responded accepting my provisional decision. Mr R rejected my findings but didnt 
provide any new information or comments that hadnt already been addressed. So, theres 
nothing further I need to comment on - my decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
Mr R didnt consent to some of the transactions  so Barclays should pay Mr R £9,996 to 
refund him for the payments that werent consented to. Barclays should also include any 
associated interest or charges as part of this payment and pay Mr R 8% simple interest from 
the date of the transactions to the date of settlement. 
In addition, Barclays should pay Mr R £75 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience hes experienced because of the banks failure to resolve this matter sooner.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should settle this complaint in line with 
what Ive instructed under the heading putting things right above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman