DRN-2033061
The complaint
Mr H complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLCs (Tesco Bank) response to a problem 
he had with a product purchased using his credit card. 
What happened
Mr H paid a deposit of £2,000 for a product using his Tesco Bank credit card. Mr H says the 
product was an asset and also had an investment element (as it paid interest). In summary, 
he says that although the product had paid some interest the supplier has now gone into 
administration. Mr H says not only has interest from the product stopped but he has also lost 
his original £20,000 investment.  
Because his Tesco Bank credit card was involved in the purchase Mr H made a claim to 
Tesco Bank for a refund of the total cost of the product under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
Tesco Bank said that it wouldnt refund him for the product because the requirements were 
not in place for a valid Section 75 claim. In summary, it said that there was no valid debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement because: 
he did not agree to contract with the supplier of the product  his wife did
his credit card payment went to the agent who acted as an intermediary and not the 
supplier of the product
Mr H was not happy with Tesco Banks decision, so he complained about it. But Tesco Bank 
would not uphold his complaint. So the matter came to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary, they agreed the required 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement was not in place for Mr H to have a valid Section 75 
claim.
Mr H asked for the matter to be looked at again by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 allows Mr H to hold Tesco Bank responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using his credit card. However, 
there are certain technical requirements that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be 
valid. This might be in relation to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the 
transaction, or the way the payment was made.
It is not for me to determine the outcome of a Section 75 claim. That is something which 
Tesco Bank has considered. However, in deciding what is fair and reasonable I can look at 
whether Tesco Bank has acted fairly in its consideration of Mr Hs claim. 
In order to decide what is fair and reasonable I have regard to the technical requirements 
that need to be satisfied in order for a Section 75 claim to be valid. These are set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. One of those requirements is for a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement between the parties to the transaction. 
In this case I can see that arranging the purchase of the product was done by an 
intermediary (Supplier A). However the purchase was made from another Company 
(Supplier B).
Mr H is the debtor here as he is the one who has the credit agreement with Tesco Bank. He 
has directed his claim in respect of the actions of Supplier B as it is the entity which 
ultimately sold the product. In order for Mr H to have a valid Section 75 claim against Tesco 
Bank in respect of the actions of Supplier B I would need to be satisfied that he (as the 
debtor with the credit agreement) contracted with Supplier B for the product.
However, I do not consider that Mr H has a contract agreed with Supplier B (or Supplier A for 
that matter). All of the contractual documents for the purchase of the product are in the sole 
name of his wife. It is very clear from Supplier As contract that Mr Hs wife is the client for 
whom it is arranging to purchase the product from Supplier B. And the legal agreement for 
purchase of the product made with Supplier B (including related correspondence confirming 
the purchase) shows his wife as the sole party to the agreement. In each instance it is only 
Mr Hs wife who signs the relevant contractual documents. I can also see that Mr Hs wife 
engaged solicitors to assist with the purchase of the product from Supplier B. So to all 
intents and purposes it appears Mr H is not contracting for the purchase of the product.
As a counter to this, Mr H has said that he shares his finances with his wife and the product 
was purchased in his wifes name for legitimate tax reasons. He said they would both benefit 
from it and should be considered as one unit for the purposes of the transaction. 
I have considered what Mr H has said. However, benefiting from a purchase or providing the 
means to pay for it wont automatically make someone a contracting party. Whether there is 
a contract depends on the particular circumstances. And from what Mr H has said I believe 
his intention was in fact not to be considered a joint party to the contract because of the 
specific financial reasons he has described. The documentation also supports this finding, 
showing Mr Hs wife is the sole party to the transaction with no indication that she is acting 
with or on behalf of Mr H in order to facilitate a joint contract. Overall, I dont think there is the 
relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship for Mr H to have a valid Section 75 claim 
against Tesco Bank in respect of the product purchased using his credit card.
It is worth noting that even if I accepted Mr H were contracting with Supplier B here, I 
consider a valid debtor-creditor supplier agreement is likely not in place for a claim in 
respect of its actions in any event. This is because, in respect of this transaction, Tesco 
Bank appears to have the relationship with Supplier A which accepted the credit card 
payment. Furthermore, Supplier A and Supplier B appear to be separate legal entities which 
are not associates under the requirements of s184 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (which 
in certain cases creates a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship where the supplier of 
the product is different to the entity which accepted the credit card payment). However, I do 
not consider it necessary to discuss this point in further detail as I am satisfied the required 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship is clearly not in place due to the contractual reasons 
which I have already discussed.
Because I dont think Mr H has a valid Section 75 claim against Tesco Bank in relation to the 
purchase of the product, I dont consider it fair and reasonable to ask it to do anything further 
in relation to the transaction.I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, especially considering the sums involved 
here. But in order to consider what is fair and reasonable I must have due regard to the 
provisions of the law which, in specific circumstances make Tesco Bank responsible for the 
actions of others. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman