DRN-1671027
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mr E. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. Barclays sold Mr E the 
policy when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr E and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why:
I think Barclays made Mr E aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. Ive seen a 
copy of the postal application form he filled in and signed. This has a section where 
you tick one of two boxes to say either yes or no to PPI.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Es individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It was 
up to Mr E to decide if it suited his needs.
The information Barclays gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. It gave the basic formula for how much the PPI would cost, based on the 
existing credit card balance each month; but this could have been clearer, and there 
wasnt information about limitations on how long the PPI would pay out, and 
restrictions on claiming. But I dont think full information about all this is likely to have 
affected whether Mr E took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its 
unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful  he says he didnt have 
savings to fall back on, and the PPI would potentially have paid out for longer than 
his full sick pay lasted. And it doesnt seem he would have been affected by any of 
the significant exclusions in the policy. 
So the PPI wasnt mis-sold. This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr E. But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr E, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
If its not already made the payment:
Barclays has to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Mr E any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr E the difference 
between what Mr E owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay 
Mr E 8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman