DRN-2531477
The complaint
This is a complaint that Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold Mrs B and Mr P payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2008.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. Yorkshire disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was been passed to me. When I reviewed the 
case, I reached a different view to that of the adjudicator. So I wrote a provisional decision 
so that everyone could comment before I reached a final decision. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was because they thought 
that Yorkshire hadnt made it clear that the PPI policy was optional. But Ive reached 
a different view on that point. And Ive checked to see whether there are other 
reasons to say the PPI was mis-sold, but I cant see that there were. So my current 
view is that the PPI wasnt mis- sold. I will explain why.
One of Mr P and Mrs Bs complaint points was that Yorkshire didnt make clear that 
the PPI was optional.
However, it wouldnt be fair to conclude this happened, unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence. Where someone has said another person or organisation has 
done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation 
should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require 
someone to prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a 
long time ago. And in fact the remaining documentary evidence does at least 
suggest there was discussion around different types of insurance, and what level 
would suit Mr P and Mrs Bs particular needs.
I can see from the notes of the discussion, Yorkshire recommended both PPI and life 
insurance, but Mr P and Mrs B decided to take only PPI and not life insurance. Also, 
the PPI illustration given to Mr P and Mrs B says that the insurance is optional.
So this does all suggest they were most likely aware there was a choice. And 
overall, without stronger evidence, my current view is that I cant fairly say the PPI 
started without Mr P and Mrs Bs willing consent.
Ive also looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case:
Yorkshire recommended the PPI to Mr P and Mrs B, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr P and Mrs Bs particular circumstances. But it doesnt look 
as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. Being unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI 
would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr P (the person covered) 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have 
put off the time when theyd need to fall back on any savings or other means of 
help. This all would have put Mr P and Mrs B in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not 
been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and a recommendation 
was suitable. It would then have been up to Mr P and Mrs B to decide it they 
thought it was worth the premiums.
The monthly price of the policy was shown at the time of the sale. So I think 
Mr P and Mrs B would have understood how much it would cost.
Its possible Yorkshire didnt clearly point out the main things the policy 
didnt cover. But its unlikely Mr P would have been affected by any of these. 
Its likely he was eligible for the policy, and theyd be paying for it monthly, 
so they could cancel it at any time without if their situation changed.
I didnt receive any comments or further evidence in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman