DRN-2766045
The complaint
Ms Ns complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt replace her boiler under her boiler 
protection policy.
What happened
In the second half of 2019, Ms N bought a policy online from Great Lakes to cover her 
against boiler breakdown.  She agreed to pay for the policy by monthly direct debit.
At the end of March 2020, Ms Ns supply of hot water failed.  So she contacted Great Lakes 
to have the issue fixed under the terms of the policy.  She told Great Lakes that she was 
vulnerable and had been advised to shield due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  And her condition 
was made worse by a lack of hot water.
Great Lakes arranged for an engineer to go to Ms Ns property the next day and diagnose 
the problem.  The engineer told Ms N what had to be done to restore her hot water supply.  
But his report to Great Lakes confirmed Ms Ns appliance was a gas water heater  not a 
boiler.
Great Lakes said the policy didnt cover this type of appliance  only standard domestic 
boilers and their controls.  So they wouldnt cover replacement of Ms Ns water heater.
Ms N complained about Great Lakes decision to decline cover, their selling of the policy and 
their customer service.  Great Lakes considered her complaint and rejected the complaints 
about their decision and customer service.  They referred her concerns about how the policy 
was sold to their customer services department to look at.  And they cancelled her policy
Ms N wasnt satisfied with Great Lakes response and brought her complaint to us.  She told 
us she thought Great Lakes should apologise for providing misleading information, refund 
her premiums and pay her compensation equivalent to the cost of replacing the water heater 
and making good the surrounding decoration.  
Our investigator considered it and concluded Great Lakes shouldnt have done anything 
differently.  She said it was clear the policy covered only standard domestic boilers.  And this 
wasnt what Ms N had  so she couldnt say Great Lakes should cover the cost of repair or 
replacement.  And she didnt think it was fair to say Great Lakes should refund the premiums 
Ms N had paid, because they were less than the costs Great Lakes had incurred to send an 
engineer to her home to inspect the heater.
Ms N didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ns complaint.  Ill explain why.
The key point here is the type of appliance installed at Ms Ns property.  Shes referred to it 
throughout as a boiler and its clear thats what she believed it was.  So I can understand 
why she bought a policy which covered standard domestic boilers.
Unfortunately, the engineer who inspected her appliance when she tried to make a claim 
recorded that wasnt what she had  rather, it was a gas water heater.  And those arent 
covered under the policy.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to decide that Great Lakes should 
compensate Ms N the amount it cost her to replace the heater as it would effectively be 
directing them to pay the claim.
Ms Ns told us that she thought the policy wording wasnt clear about what was covered.  Ive 
thought about this.  Ms N bought the policy online.  The documentation she received when 
shed competed her purchase is clear that she should read everything carefully, to check it 
met her needs.
Great Lakes have supplied copies of what customers see when they buy on the website.  
Theres a section headed Eligibility which requires customers to agree that several 
statements are true  including:
My boiler is a standard domestic boiler, powered by natural gas and is not LPG, oil or 
another heating system.
As I said above, its my understanding that Ms N believed her boiler fitted these criteria.  But 
the documents made it clear it was her responsibility to check the policy was suitable for her 
 including whether shed properly understood the definitions.  While Im sorry she was left in 
the position she was, I dont think that was Great Lakes responsibility  so it wouldnt be fair 
for me to say they should pay Ms N compensation.
Ive also thought about Ms Ns concerns about how her complaint to Great Lakes was dealt 
with.  Ive seen that she raised a complaint two days after her initial call to lodge a claim 
under the policy.  Great Lakes responded the following day.
Its clear that Ms N wasnt satisfied with Great Lakes response.  But businesses must 
investigate complaints and write to customers with the results of that investigation.  Theyre 
not required to agree theyve done something wrong.  If customers arent satisfied, they have 
the option  as Ms N has done  to refer their complaint to our service.  So Im satisfied from 
what Ive seen that Great Lakes did address Ms Ns complaint.  
Ive seen Ms N wanted Great Lakes to refund the premiums she paid for the policy.  But, as 
Ive said, its not Great Lakes fault she bought a policy that wasnt suitable.  I can see that 
Great Lakes have considered that request.  But they retained what shed paid, because it 
cost them more than that to send an engineer to Ms Ns home.  I think that reasonable.  So I 
dont think Great Lakes need to do anything more to resolve her complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ns complaint about Great Lakes 
Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman