DRN-1627347
 
The complaint
Mr N was involved in a road traffic accident and hes unhappy that Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV) has held him responsible for causing it after he claimed on 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N was involved in a collision with a truck on a motorway slip road that merged from two 
lanes into one. Mr N says the truck overtook him on the inside, after hed moved into the 
merged lane, clipping his passenger side wing mirror and damaging his car. LV said they 
believed Mr N moved into the merged lane, and didnt give the truck driver enough room to 
go past. This resulted in Mr Ns car suffering damage.
Mr N is unhappy because LV have said the accident was his fault. Because of this he 
doesnt think they dealt with his claim appropriately.
Our investigator found LV had acted reasonably in saying Mr N was at fault. He felt the 
policy terms allowed them to make this decision, and that they had sufficient evidence to do 
so. Because of this he didnt feel that LV should do anything more.
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider whether LV handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. It isnt 
to decide who was at fault for the accident. Decisions on responsibility are best dealt with by 
the courts.
The terms of Mr Ns car insurance policy allowed LV to conduct the claim, and gave them full 
discretion to agree a settlement. Because of this LV didnt need Mr Ns agreement or 
approval to reach a decision that he was at fault for the accident. But I would expect them to 
base any decision on things such as:
The versions of events provided by Mr N and the other party.
Evidence provided to support or challenge the version of events.
Legal precedent, legislation and the Highway Code.
Ive listened to the call where Mr N reported the accident to LV. He explained he was 
overtaking a truck on a two lane slip road. He was in the right hand lane, and the truck was 
in the left hand lane. After hed overtaken the truck, the two lanes merged into one, at which 
point the truck hit his car and damaged the passenger side wing mirror. 
This is the version of events LV recorded on their system. Mr N is now saying that the truck 
was on the hard shoulder when the accident happened, and he had to swerve to try and avoid the collision. But he didnt tell LV this. So I think LV acted reasonably by dealing with 
the claim based on the information Mr N had told them.
Mr N confirmed there were no witnesses, no CCTV footage or no dashcam footage of the 
accident. So LV would need to base their decision on the versions of events of both parties. 
And the truck driver said Mr N was at fault for the accident. As neither Mr N nor the truck 
driver was accepting liability, LV had to rely upon what evidence they could get, and what 
the Highway Code says.
LV say they reviewed the circumstances, road layout, signs etc. [and] it clearly shows that 
drivers in the right hand lane should merge into the left. So Mr N was required to let the 
truck pass him, rather than try and overtake it. Because of this, LV said it was highly unlikely, 
based on their experience, that theyd be able to defend the claim if it went to court. So they 
accepted liability for the accident.
While I cant say if Mr N was or wasnt at fault for the accident, as Mr Ns insurance policy 
says (under the heading Accident and claims procedure) that LV have total control to 
conduct, defend and settle any claim, they didnt do anything wrong by making the decision 
they did.
Mr N has also said the damage to his car is consistent with the truck driver trying to overtake 
him on the inside. But its also consistent with Mr N trying to merge into a left hand lane 
where theres a faster moving vehicle in that lane. Its not possible from the damage to 
determine where Mr N and the truck were positioned on the road at the time of the accident. 
And the photos Mr Ns provided only show where his car and the truck were after the 
accident.
So, overall Im satisfied that LV handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. Their 
decision to accept liability was made with full regard to all of the evidence and circumstances 
of the accident, and was taken in line with the terms of Mr Ns car insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman