DRN-3387206
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed transactions he made to an 
investment scam.
What happened
Mr H met someone through a dating application, and they suggested they could help him 
make money from cryptocurrency. He set up an account with Binance, a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange and began transferring money from his Lloyds account into the 
Binance account, which was then sent on to the scammer.
Mr H has explained he started off with a low payment, on his statements he first sent £300 
on 15 March 2021. And then he increased the amount he was sending. Between 15 March 
2021 and 16 April 2021 Mr H paid over £10,000 into the Binance account. Mr H realised hed 
been the victim of  a scam when he was unable to withdraw from the investment. He spoke 
to the scammer at the beginning of April about withdrawing and paid the initial fees she said 
were needed, but despite this received no funds in return. 
Mr H spoke to Lloyds about what had happened and asked it to help him recover his money. 
It wasnt able to do so. It looked into a complaint for him, but said that hed willingly made the 
payments and that they werent unusual for his account, so didnt trigger any alerts on its 
fraud systems. So it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service, but ultimately our investigator didnt uphold it 
either. They said that the way the payments were sent meant they didnt look unusual or 
uncharacteristic. And the fact Mr H paid the Binance account over a period of weeks also 
meant that it became a known/trusted payee. Mr H highlighted that hed tried to stop his final 
payment, but Lloyds hadnt done this. But the investigator set out that Lloyds wasnt able to 
stop the payment as it had already been sent. And it went to Mr Hs own Binance account, 
where it was then taken by the scammer. Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H increased the amounts he sent to his Binance account. So while a payment of 
several thousand was more uncommon for him, he didnt start by sending this amount. 
Instead he sent a few hundred pounds and then over time increased the amount he sent. 
Due to this Binance became a trusted payee and the amounts seemed less unusual, as 
the average amount he was spending on his account increased. So I dont think Lloyds 
needed to carry out a full intervention and speak to Mr H about any of the payments in 
this case. 
As Mr H was sending the funds to Binance, he was paying a legitimate company. So 
there were no warnings about it online. Or any links for Lloyds to see between the firm 
Mr H was paying and the scam investment firm he was actually speaking to and going to 
ultimately pay.
There are also no recovery options for Mr H through Lloyds. Lloyds wouldnt be able to 
successfully claim the money back from Binance as it did supply Mr H with the 
cryptocurrency he paid for. It was then at this point his loss occurred, as from here he 
sent it to the scammer.
I accept Mr H has unfortunately been the victim of a scam, but I dont agree Lloyds is 
responsible for his loss or should reimburse him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman