DRN-4321587
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) declined his claim for accidental 
damage to his ceiling.
What happened
Mr A had buildings insurance underwritten by RSA. He claimed under the policy after he 
noticed dents/cracks in his ceiling. Mr A explained that hed become distracted when 
repressurising his boiler and forgot hed left the water running. He said the pipes were 
screwed to the ceiling joists so when they became over pressurised the pipes pushed down 
into the joists. Mr A said thats what caused the ceiling damage.
RSAs surveyor inspected the damage and issued a report stating the cracks were due to 
normal building settlement. RSA declined Mr As claim under the policy exclusion of wear 
and tear and anything which happens gradually.
Mr A was unhappy with RSAs response. He felt RSA hadnt appointed a suitably qualified 
engineer because their expertise was in buildings rather than heating systems. Mr A 
provided further evidence from boiler engineers to support his claim.
RSA maintained its decision to decline the claim and issued its final response to Mr As 
complaint. So he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt think RSA had unfairly declined the claim. He said the evidence 
supporting RSAs view of the cause of damage was more persuasive, so he didnt uphold Mr 
As complaint.
Mr A didnt agree. He explained that his main concern wasnt about the claim payment. It 
was about the fact that RSA didnt believe him and he wanted justice. Mr A repeated his 
concerns that:
the surveyor didnt have expertise in heating systems;
the pipes were screwed down so they could only press down on the joists;
the damaged ceiling wasn't caused by the building settling but he didnt know how to 
prove that, and
his boiler engineer confirmed to him, but wouldnt put in writing, that the over 
pressurised pipes caused damage. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The background Ive given above is just a brief overview of the circumstances. Ive looked at 
the expert reports, photos, and all supporting evidence provided by both Mr A and RSA. Ive 
also listened to the call recordings. I wont comment on every point of the complaint. Instead 
Ill focus on the key point and comment on specific evidence where I think it will help me 
explain my decision.
Firstly, Ill address Mr As concern that he hasnt been believed. I can understand why hed 
think that - RSA declined his claim for damage because it didnt think the cause was as he 
reported. However, I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest theres any disbelief 
about the events Mr A reported leading up to the point when he noticed his ceiling damage. 
The point is that RSA will only cover accidental damage under the policy if Mr A can show 
that there was an insured cause. It accepted his account of events, but RSAs surveyor said 
the damage was consistent with cracks seen when a building has settled, and the age of Mr 
As house would fit with that assessment.  
So, based on the evidence, Im satisfied that RSA declined the claim because it didnt think 
the over pressurised pipe was the cause of the damage, rather than that it disbelieved Mr 
As account of events.
That leads me to RSAs decision to decline the claim. RSAs expert report says the damage 
is consistent with gradual causes which can be expected in a building of that age. The 
surveyor pointed out that similar cracks were evident in other rooms, all of which 
corresponded with places where plasterboard meets and where the coving/wall meets the 
ceiling. There was also evidence of an earlier repair of one ceiling crack, although I 
understand Mr A didnt complete the repair.
Looking at the photos, I think RSA has given a reasonable explanation for the cause of 
damage. Ive looked at Mr As reports, but the evidence is suggestive of what could happen 
rather than conclusive. In the absence of an independent report stating that the over 
pressurised pipes more than likely caused all of the cracks in Mr As ceilings, I cant fairly 
disregard RSAs report. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that the expert evidence indicates RSA declined the claim fairly 
under the policy exclusion of gradual causes.
Ive thought about Mr As complaint that RSAs surveyor was a building surveyor rather than 
an expert on heating systems. However, I dont think that adversely affects the outcome of 
the assessment. The damage was to the ceiling  part of the building  not the heating 
system. Therefore, I consider it reasonable that a building surveyor assessed the likely 
cause of damage based on their expert knowledge of buildings.
I understand why Mr A mightve expected a boiler engineer. But I note that his boiler 
engineer wouldnt put in writing that the pipes caused the damage. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably say that a boiler engineer wouldve been in a better position to identify the cause 
of damage to the ceiling. I dont think RSA did anything wrong here.
Overall, based on the evidence available to me, I havent seen anything to indicate that RSA 
unfairly declined Mr As claim under the policy exclusion of gradual causes. Therefore, I 
wont be asking RSA to reconsider the claim.
As a final point, I wanted to come back to Mr As comment that he wasnt believed. It seems 
that the ceiling damage itself hasnt caused him distress or inconvenience, and hes said he 
can easily arrange to have the repairs done. Rather, he is more upset at the thought that 
hes considered to be dishonest. But his declined claim doesnt automatically mean the claim 
is dishonest. It simply means that on the balance of evidence available, RSA thought the damage was more likely caused by building settlement than over pressurised pipes. I hope 
that provides Mr A with some reassurance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman