DRN-4015751
The complaint
Ms E complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc, trading as First Trust Bank (First Trust) hasnt 
refunded transactions that she didnt make during 2021 and 2022. She said shes lost over 
£6,000.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. Instead, Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
Ms E told us she noticed in February 2022 that money had been going missing from her 
account during 2021 and 2022, though she believes it may have also been happening before 
this. She thinks someone skimmed her card and was using it for everyday spending like 
food and fuel. The disputed payments all appear to be for the same merchant. 
Having raised this with First Trust, it refunded around £800. Ms E was unsure why it only 
refunded this amount when she believes the losses to be much more. She also raised 
dissatisfaction with the adviser that she spoke with about the matter. 
First Trust said it refunded a total of 23 transactions which were all to the one merchant. The 
refund was for every transaction made to that merchant from 1 November 2021 to 
3 December 2021. It also offered £100 which it said was because it hadnt investigated the 
disputes as requested by Ms E and because of the situation surrounding a charge for 
duplicate statements.
First Trust told our Service that it gave the refund of around £800 without investigating the 
matter. It said all of the disputed transactions were made via Chip and Pin and that the card 
was physically present, providing evidence to support this  including those it provided a 
refund for. So, it indicated that, on reflection, it wouldnt have given a refund. But it said it 
wouldnt be looking to recoup this amount. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He concluded that the remaining disputed 
payments raised, with that same merchant, had been authorised  and that it was Ms E who 
had authorised them. He didnt think there was a plausible explanation as to how someone 
could have carried out the transactions. And he noted details such as how the payments 
continued to be made even after Ms Es card was replaced. He also noted that later 
payments, which werent disputed, continued in a similar pattern.  
Ms E disagreed. She said she doesnt use her card in the pattern that the statements show, 
visiting the merchant multiple times in a day would be impractical, and the card has been on 
her at all times  so believes it must have been copied. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator  Ill explain why.
As the investigator outlined, the relevant regulations here are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) which explain that a payment out of someones account can 
only be considered authorised if the payer has consented to it. While First Trust has been 
able to evidence that Ms Es physical card and PIN were used, meaning the payments were 
properly authenticated, this doesnt necessarily mean that Ms E consented to the payments. 
Someone else could have used her card, for example, which is what shes alleged has 
happened here. So, Ive had to carefully consider whether I think Ms E authorised the 
payments.
Looking at all the evidence provided, Im not persuaded that it would be plausible for 
someone else to have been using the card in the way in which Ms E has suggested. This 
would involve someone accessing Ms Es physical card, using it, and then returning it on 
multiple occasions without her realising. In addition to this, Ms E has explained how the card 
was in her possession at all times, her details werent written down, and shed never given 
her card or PIN to anyone else to use on her behalf. 
I also note that, while Ms E doesnt recall using the card multiple times a day with the same 
merchant, she hasnt ultimately disputed that she did use that merchant. So to dispute all the 
payments made to that merchant when some of them are likely to have been genuine, 
seems unfair to First Trust. I do recognise that with the passage of time and the number of 
payments involved, it would be hard to recall which payments she made and which she 
didnt. But I then return to my above point which is that I cant see how it would be plausible 
for the card to have been used and returned repeatedly by someone else, unbeknownst to 
Ms E.
I note, as the investigator also has, that having reported this issue to First Trust, Ms Es card 
was replaced. Following Ms E reporting the matter to First Trust, the card was again used 
with the same merchant and sometimes with multiple transactions in a day. So, the pattern 
of spending continued in much the same way as it had done before  yet it doesnt appear 
that these later payments were disputed. Given everything Ive seen, Im not satisfied that its 
plausible for anyone other than Ms E to have carried out these transactions. 
Ms E, at her request, was given an opportunity to provide evidence that she didnt make 
these payments, but this wasnt ultimately provided. On that basis, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask First Trust to refund any of the disputed payments in 2021 and 2022. It has said it 
isnt looking to recoup the funds and it has also offered £100 for service errors. It would 
seem reasonable for it to pay the £100 compensation, if it hasnt already, given that it said it 
would. But I wont be asking it to do anything further  even if I had sufficient evidence of 
additional poor service, Im satisfied shes been compensated beyond what I would have 
asked of First Trust. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against AIB Group (UK) Plc 
trading as First Trust Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Melanie RobertsOmbudsman