DRN-3358892
The complaint
X and Mrs S complaint is about a claim X made on his DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited policy for cover to bring an employment claim.
X and Mrs S are unhappy with the way in which Xs claim was handled.
What happened
X made a claim on his DAS legal expenses insurance policy in November 2020 for help with 
an employment claim.
10 days later DAS confirmed the claim wasnt covered because the policy didnt cover 
disciplinary hearings and X had not been dismissed. X was unhappy with this and raised a 
complaint with DAS, who responded by way of final response in December 2020. That 
response also addressed Xs concerns about the handling of the claim generally.
In April 2021 X got in touch with DAS to say things had moved on and his claim against his 
former employer had been issued at the Employment Tribunal. He didnt hear anything 
further so contacted DAS again. DAS asked for a copy of the claim itself and related 
documents. X didnt provide anything in reply. In July 2021 he contacted DAS again to say 
he had a hearing 8 days later and needed help with that. At that point DAS got in touch with 
Xs solicitors asking for them to complete a claims management report and confirming what 
they would pay in respect of their hourly rate. 
The following day X told DAS that his solicitor needed to be paid in advance of the hearing. 4 
days after that DAS told Mr X that they were yet to receive a claims management report from 
his solicitor and that they didnt make payments in advance. The following day (and 2 days 
before the hearing) X complained about the claims management report being necessary and 
was unhappy with the hourly rate offered to his solicitor. He asked DAS to call him to discuss 
things.
The following day (and 1 day before the hearing) DAS replied by email. They explained the 
necessity of a claims management report to establish whether the claim fell within cover and 
explained that the hourly rate offered was in line with their policy terms. Given the impending 
hearing, DAS offered to contribute to Xs own solicitors costs at the hourly rate they said 
they were prepared to pay or said X could use the legal advice line for help to attend the 
hearing without representation. 
Around week after the hearing DAS asked X to confirm the outcome of the hearing. X 
confirmed details of some directions the Tribunal had issued, including submitting 
particularised details of his claim by the end of August 2021. Beyond this point DAS 
corresponded with X about the details of his claim with a view to establishing whether it fell 
within the policy terms. Towards the end of August DAS said it would appoint a panel firm. 
But it couldnt find anyone to provide X with assistance in submitting the documents by the 
date set down by the Tribunal. They did however identify a panel firm who could advise on 
the merits of the claim. As a consequence, X instructed a barrister to assist with the 
documents he needed to file by the end of August.
The panel firm issued an opinion on the merits of Xs claim in September- 6 days after a 
hearing X had in place. X complained that the panel firm didnt represent him at that hearing. 
The panel firms opinion was that Xs claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success, as 
required by the policy. X was unhappy about this as well as the fact that the panel firm didnt 
attend the earlier hearing for him and the handling of his claim generally.
DAS addressed Xs concerned in a letter dated December 2021. In particular they said X 
was free to provide his own legal opinion if he wanted them to review things further but they 
wouldnt pay any of Xs legal fees they hadnt agreed to discharge beforehand. In closing 
DAS accepted they might have asked X for information hed already provided previously and 
apologised for this. 
Our investigator reviewed X and Mrs Ss complaint. She concluded that the complaints 
underlying the final response letter addressed by DAS in December 2020 were out of time to 
be considered by this Service because they were referred to over six months after the date 
of that letter. X cited a number of exceptional reasons why he thought this time cap shouldnt 
be applied but the investigator said she didnt think any of those reasons amounted to 
exceptional circumstances.
The investigator did however consider the merits of X and Mrs S complaints raised in 
August 2021. She recognised that although there was a small delay by DAS in dealing with 
Xs claim this didnt cause any significant delays in the claims process, so DAS didnt need 
to do anything more. She also said DAS werent obliged to pay Xs legal fees as there was 
no cover in place. And she determined that DAS hadnt reviewed a claim for discrimination 
on the grounds of religion because X didnt submit a claim to them for this and there was 
nothing included in the papers he submitted to suggest this was a claim he wanted them to 
cover. 
X and Mrs S dont agree with the investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to 
me to decide.  
Why I cant look into X and S complaint prior to December 2020  
As the investigator explained, the rules that govern this Service (DISP) set out which 
complaints we are and arent able to look at. DISP 2.8.2(2) says we cant consider a 
complaint if the complainant refers it to us more than six months after the date which the 
business sent the complainant its final response.
In this case DAS sent its final response letter in December 2020. The complaints however 
were referred to us in October 2021, which were four months out of time.
There are certain times when we can look at complaints, which are time barred. One of 
those times might be if DAS consented to our doing so. But DAS havent consented to our 
looking at these complaints. The rules also allow us to look at complaints referred out of time 
if the failure to comply with the time limit was as a result of exceptional circumstances. In this 
case X says exceptional circumstances apply because he didnt consider the issues he 
raised to be at an end and closed. He also says he didnt realise he had to contact this 
Service within six months of the final response letter and he was suffering from a health 
condition and on medication which also amounted to an exceptional circumstance.
Ive thought carefully about Xs submissions in relation to the correspondence he received 
from DAS and Ive considered the health conditions he and Mrs S suffered from as well as 
the impact they had on them. Ive also considered the medical evidence hes provided. 
Having done so I have no doubt that the conditions Mr X and Mrs S suffered from would 
have had a considerable impact on their day to day life and this wouldve been compounded by the underlying dispute they had with their employer. But I dont think their circumstances 
amount to what we would consider exceptional circumstances. I say so for a number of 
reasons; Firstly, the bar for what wed consider exceptional is particularly high. It extends 
where complainants arent able to meet the time limits. Examples of that might include 
serious ill health that might leave a complainant incapacitated or where a complainant 
doesnt for example receive a final response letter so isnt aware they need to refer their 
complaint to us within particular time limits. Either way, wed be looking at something that 
prevented a customer from referring their complaint to us within the referral period.
And whilst I know both X and Mrs S were having a hard time, they were able to engage with 
the Employment Tribunal proceedings and adhere to the timetable set down by them within 
the six month period in which they couldve referred their complaint to us. And the final 
response letter provided by DAS in December 2020 was clear on what X and Mrs S should 
do if they remained unhappy with the outcome of their complaint. Overall, I havent seen 
anything that persuades me the matter was ongoing nor that DAS were unclear about what 
X and Mrs S needed to do if they remained dissatisfied. 
For these reasons, X and Mrs Ss complaints prior to December 2020 arent matters I can 
consider because they were referred over six months after DAS issued their final response 
letters and there are no circumstances that apply that mean we can look at things outside 
these limits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This relates solely to the complaints that X and Mrs S made to DAS in August 2021. Having 
done so, I dont intend to uphold them. Ill explain why.
Should Xs claim be covered by DAS?
The starting point is the policy terms. Xs policy, like virtually all other before the event 
insurance policies requires there to be reasonable prospects of success. We dont think this 
is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear 
the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed or that the amount they might recover would be 
less than the cost of the action itself. We wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurance to fund 
claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the 
insurer has acted fairly, So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we 
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong 
or based on factual mistakes. DAS did this. The panel firms advice was that Xs claims 
didnt have reasonable prospects of success. Because of this they declined to cover the 
claim. They also told X that if he wanted to obtain his own legal opinion, they would 
reconsider things, which is in line with what Id expect an insurer to do.
Given Xs claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success, it didnt fall within policy cover. 
So, it wasnt unreasonable for DAS to turn down funding any of Xs representatives costs. 
And the policy sets out that DAS wont cover costs and expenses incurred before their 
written acceptance of a claim. Notwithstanding this, DAS did offer to pay the hourly rate set 
out in its policy terms for Xs solicitors costs in attending the hearing in July 2021. DAS 
didnt have a claims management report at that point confirming the claims X was making fell 
within policy cover, so I think this offer was more than reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate that X didnt take DAS up on this offer but thats not something I think DAS are 
responsible for.
Delays and DAS handling of the claim generally
Ive thought about DAS handling of the claim as a whole and I take the view that it was 
largely reactive to X getting in touch intermittently to ask for help.
On more than one occasion DAS asked for the information needed to make a decision on 
whether cover was available. As Ive said above it was entitled to do this in order to make a 
decision on cover. Its unfortunate that the information wasnt provided well in advance of the 
litigation taking place. Had X done this I think its unlikely he would have had to deal with the 
added complication of dealing with the deadlines set down by the litigation itself as well as 
seeking cover. So, whilst I understand why he was keen for DAS to provide him with cover 
and fund his representatives costs, I dont think this means that DAS had to assess this 
immediately.
Ive considered the timeline of events and I dont think that there were any significant delays 
on DAS part such that they caused X any detriment. The litigation was already underway 
when X got in touch to request cover in April 2021. When DAS asked for information about 
this in response X didnt respond. He then sought cover again in July 2021 when a hearing 
was imminent. I think DAS did their best to help X after this, but they didnt immediately have 
the information they needed to assess the claim and once this was forthcoming they 
instructed a panel firm to consider things. I appreciate it took the panel firm some time to 
consider the claim, but they also needed further information in order to do this, which 
accounted for a further delay in matters reaching conclusion. I know this meant that X didnt 
have the benefit of representation at a further hearing but that wasnt something DAS had 
promised him. The claim was after all still being assessed. And given the outcome of that 
assessment, I dont think X would have been in any better position than he is now if DAS 
had acted any sooner or had an assessment had materialised sooner. Thats because the 
outcome was ultimately that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success so DAS 
wouldnt have afforded X cover for his claim in any event. Because of this I havent 
commented on any small delays in this complaint on DAS part or duplicate requests for 
information, because I dont think they make any material difference to the outcome of this 
complaint.
I understand X was unhappy that DAS havent explored a discrimination claim on the 
grounds of religion for him. As far as I can see that didnt form part of initial claim to DAS but 
DAS have since agreed to review this in line with what Id expect from them. 
I know Mrs S has made a separate claim to DAS for cover to bring an employment claim 
herself and was unhappy that DAS hadnt considered it. That doesnt form part of this 
complaint so I havent reviewed it when reaching my conclusions. As I understand it DAS are 
considering that matter separately with Mrs S.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, X and Mrs Ss complaints prior to December 2020 arent 
matters I can consider because they were referred over six months after DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited issued their final response letters and there are no 
circumstances that apply that mean we can look at things outside these limits.
And for the reasons Ive also explained, I dont uphold X and Mrs S complaints made to 
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited in August 2021. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision about the merits of the claim before 12 October 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman