DRN-2025637
The complaint
Mr L says Evergreen Finance London Limited  trading as MoneyBoat - irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans MoneyBoat provided to Mr L between          
June 2018 and February 2019. Mr Ls borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 01/06/2018 27/07/2018 2 £250.00 £161.79
2 30/07/2018 27/09/2018 2 £250.00 £162.49
3 01/10/2018 27/11/2018 2 £250.00 £161.66
4 19/02/2019 27/03/2019 2 £200.00 £115.03
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ls complaint and thought the loans from loan 2 shouldnt 
have been given because proportionate checks would have shown Mr L was struggling to 
manage his money. MoneyBoat disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator thought MoneyBoat had carried out proportionate checks for loan 1. Mr L 
didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute about this loan, I wont be making any 
further findings on it. 
I think MoneyBoat ought to have realised that Mr L wouldnt have been able to make his 
repayments for loan 2 sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see MoneyBoat did 
income/expenditure and credit checks on Mr L before it lent him loan 2. And I can see that 
MoneyBoat has provided its findings from those checks, including the reports from the credit 
checks, to us. 
Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Mr L was able to repay any of his loans from loan 2 
onwards in a sustainable manner.  The credit check reports show that Mr L already had 
several outstanding debts including other short-term loans as well as longer term loans. This 
information was apparent each time MoneyBoat did a credit check. So, it was aware from 
the information it has provided, that Mr L would be unable to sustainably repay not just loan 
2 but all subsequent loans. 
I think this was a clear indication that Mr L was in a debt cycle and relying upon borrowing to 
repay borrowing. So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 2 to 4 and MoneyBoat 
should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 2 to 4;pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2, 3 and 4 from Mr Ls credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen Finance London Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Evergreen Finance London Limited must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and Evergreen Finance London Limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman