DRN-3785276
The complaint
Mr K has complained about how Revolut Ltd dealt with his request for money back relating 
to two transactions on his account. 
What happened
Mr K raised a claim with Revolut about two transactions hed made to two merchants at a 
Christmas market in December 2021 using his debit card. One transaction was for £8 and 
one was for £6.60. Mr K says his card was declined and he had to pay cash for the goods. 
He says he wasnt given a receipt. Mr K said it was too busy at the market to resolve things. 
So he raised a claim and subsequent complaint with Revolut when it didnt refund him. 
Revolut sent a final response to the complaint saying Mr K hadnt provided enough evidence 
for it to proceed with the claim. Mr K wasnt happy with this so brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt think there was enough evidence to indicate 
there would have been a reasonable prospect of success had Revolut raised the 
chargebacks. 
Mr K didnt agree. He thought Revolut should have handled the claims better. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im considering whether Revolut has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr Ks 
request for money back. In situations like this Revolut was able to consider raising a 
chargeback. 
Ive thought about its decision to not raise a chargeback. The process is subject to rules 
made by the relevant card schemes. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be 
reversed in a number of situations, for example where goods or services arent received;  
where goods or services are defective or not as described; or were goods or services have 
been cancelled. So Ive thought about those rules when deciding if Revolut has treated Mr K 
fairly. 
The problem in this case is that theres a lack of evidence. Mr K has only been able to give 
us his testimony and a photo of a food stall. He said he doesnt have receipts. Moreover, its 
not clear exactly what happened. On the complaint form, Mr K said he was overcharged and 
couldnt return to the merchant because they were no longer there. The chargeback claim 
raised with Revolut mentions the order was wrong. Theres also evidence that says the 
merchant may have charged Mr K without showing him the amount. And Mr K has also said 
he paid cash for the goods when his card was declined.   
So its not clear what reasons Revolut should have used. I agree it could have asked for 
more information about the circumstances sooner. But I have to bear in mind that theres 
supporting evidence and certain conditions required for a successful chargeback. Without 
sufficient evidence to establish what happened or that chargeback conditions have been 
met, I agree with our investigator that, on balance, neither of the chargebacks were likely to 
succeed. So while I agree Revolut could arguably have done more by asking Mr K earlier for 
information to submit the chargeback, it doesnt look like Mr K was able to provide enough to 
support a successful claim. Im mindful he didnt provide further evidence to support the 
claim, even when he was asked. 
Having considered the relevant chargeback rules I dont find theres sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate there was a reasonable prospect of success for either chargeback. So Im not 
going to direct Revolut to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman