DRN-3294102
The complaint
Miss R has complained about the premium increase in the home insurance policy she held 
with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
What happened
Miss R bought a home insurance policy through her bank in 2013 and renewed it every year. 
In 2021 Miss R was moving home and while speaking to friends, found out she could buy a 
policy for less on the open market with other insurers. 
Miss R cancelled her policy with Lloyds and raised a complaint. She said she wanted Lloyds 
to compensate her by refunding the extra premium she says she paid over the years. 
Lloyds said it had correctly calculated Miss Rs premium each year. So it didnt uphold Miss 
Rs complaint.
Miss R remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Lloyds provided its pricing information to this service to show it had treated Miss R fairly 
when applying the increase to her premium each year. As this is commercially sensitive 
information, it cant be shared with Miss R. But having reviewed the information provided by 
Lloyds, our Investigator was satisfied Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong.
Miss R didnt agree. In summary she says the lack of contact from Lloyds in seven years is 
unacceptable. She doesnt believe she has been treated fairly.
So as Miss R disagrees, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important for me to say that our role isnt to tell a business what it should charge its 
customers for insurance products. But I can look at whether Lloyds treated Miss R fairly 
during the time she held her home insurance policy with it.
As the underwriter, Lloyds set the price Miss R has paid each year for her home insurance.
Until January 2022, with automatic renewals there was a chance that if customers didnt 
engage with the renewal process or shop around for other suitable policies, they may find 
themselves in a position where they are paying much more for their cover than a new 
customer would pay for a similar policy.
A business hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the insurance premium at 
renewal  and there are often risk-related reasons associated with the various insurers of the 
policy for doing so. Industry increases over time can also play a part.
I can see that the premium increased from £229.43 a year in 2013 to £568.78 in 2020. 
Lloyds has provided us with its calculation of the price Miss R paid each year. As this is 
commercially sensitive information, I cant share it with Miss R. But this service can check if 
the calculations show that a business treated a customer fairly. Im satisfied from the 
information Lloyds has provided that it did.
I think its worth mentioning that there would have been many external factors involved in the 
price increases over the years - such as increases in insurance premium tax rates 
(increased from 5% to 12%) and the impact of inflation. Miss R held her policy with Lloyds 
for approximately seven years, which is a long time. So I dont think it was unreasonable that 
the cost of her premium would have risen over the years, to take these factors into account. 
So, while there have been increases to the premiums over the years, I think there were 
legitimate reasons behind the premium increases.
And historically, when new policies are taken out, they often come with a significant initial 
discount which insurers aim to recoup over the years through customer retention. This is 
often referred to as new customer discount and has the effect of reducing the initial cost of 
the insurance policy. Businesses have been able to also offer their customers discounts with 
the aim of retaining their existing customers. 
More recently, online practices and price comparison websites have resulted in insurers 
offering slightly more competitive prices. Some customers can now manage their policies 
online and this can reduce administrative costs to insurers, which in turn means savings 
applied to the reduction offered to customers.
Insurance policies provided by different insurers may involve different benefits and/or levels 
of benefits and the level of service offered to customers may also be different. So, we do 
need to be careful when comparing the cost of insurance policies, as there may be some 
known and possibly some unknown factors that could impact on the overall cost of the 
policy. 
I think its also worth mentioning that insurers can have a different perception of the risk a 
customer presents  and so the cost between insurers can be different based on each 
insurers perceived risk of the thing its undertaking to insure.
All of these factors mean that the cost of the policy Miss R held with Lloyds and renewed in 
subsequent years, would be different to the cost of a policy taken out in 2021. So, although 
Miss R could take out a policy at a much lower cost in 2021, for the reasons explained, I 
dont think it would be fair to compare the cost of different policies taken out at different times 
as if they were like-for-like.
From 1 April 2017, insurance companies and intermediaries were required by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to include a reminder in their renewal letters, where consumers had 
renewed their policy four, or more, consecutive times, that they may be able to obtain 
insurance cheaper elsewhere if they shopped around. 
I can see that the renewal documents sent to Miss R since 2017 did give such notice. So Im 
satisfied that Lloyds made Miss R aware that she may be able to obtain cheaper cover if she 
shopped around. It follows that Im unable to conclude that Lloyds did anything wrong, by not 
including the above-mentioned reminder in any renewal notices issued before 1 April 2017.I understand Miss R is disappointed with Lloyds decision. But I think it acted fairly. And so 
this means I dont think it needs to provide Miss R with a refund.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman