DRN-3203087
The complaint
Mr M complains about his commercial mortgage with Cumberland Building Society. He says: 
Cumberland didnt pass on the full extent of a Bank of England base rate cut in 
March 2020.
He received poor service from Cumberland when he contacted it to discuss interest 
rates in April 2020.
What happened
Mr M took a commercial mortgage for £80,000 with Cumberland in 2009. Mr Ms mortgage 
offer describes his mortgage as:
on a variable rate which is 4.00% above Bank of England base rate, (currently 
0.50%). This rate will not go below a floor of 4.50%, which gives a current rate 
payable of 4.50%. The interest rate will change within 31 days following any 
adjustment to the Bank of England base rate. However, if the Bank of England base 
rate is 0.50% or less during the tracker period, then interest will be charged at 4.50% 
(0.50% + 4.00%) until such time as the base rate increases above 0.50%. 
Early redemption charges applied if Mr M redeemed the mortgage before 23 June 2012. 
On 3 April 2020 Cumberland wrote to Mr M explaining that the Bank of England announced 
two rate cuts in March 2020 totalling 0.65%. The letter went on to explain that the rate it 
applied to Mr Ms mortgage would be changing from 4.75% to 4.50% as a result of the Bank 
of Englands announcement.
Mr M says he called Cumberland three times after receiving its letter. He says on two calls 
he spoke to someone, outlined his concerns about the interest rate he was paying and was 
promised he would receive a call back. On the third call Mr M says he was cut off. Mr M has 
provided excerpts from his itemised phone bill showing that he called Cumberland on           
7 April and 29 April. The year is not shown on those excerpts and neither is the duration of 
the calls he made.
Cumberland responded to Mr Ms complaint with its final response dated 29 June 2020. It 
explained that his mortgage interest rate would not reduce to an amount lower than 4.5% 
and said the basis of the rate he was on was outlined in his mortgage offer of 2009. 
Cumberland explained that no early redemption charge currently applied to his mortgage 
product, so he was free to look for a lower rate with other lenders.
With regard to Mr Ms complaint about poor customer service, Cumberland said it had been 
unable to locate the calls using the information Mr M had provided. But it acknowledged     
Mr Ms frustration and apologised for the inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with Cumberlands response, Mr M brought his complaint to us. He said, in 
Cumberlands response, it missed the point of his complaint which, he said, is less about the 
rate now and more about the customer service issue where they have ignored letters and 
calls.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said the terms and conditions confirm 
how the rate would track the Bank of England base rate and Cumberland had acted in line 
with those terms and conditions.
With regard to the customer service issues our investigator said shed not seen sufficient 
evidence to conclude that Cumberland treated Mr M unfairly. She said Mr M has not 
provided her with any copies of letters or emails he sent to Cumberland and shes satisfied 
that Cumberland has searched its records for telephone call recordings.
Mr M did not accept our investigators opinion. He said he has provided evidence of phone 
calls and Cumberland cant find the recordings. Mr M says hes also received a response to 
his data subject access request (DSAR) from Cumberland. He says Cumberland made it 
difficult for him to make the request and there were details missing from its response  in 
particular, evidence of its poor customer service. He also said Cumberlands poor handling 
of his DSAR is indicative of its general poor customer service.
As Mr M didnt agree with our investigators findings, his complaint has been referred to me 
for a final decision.
I wrote to both parties with my provisional decision on 23 February 2022, giving them until    
9 March 2022 to respond with anything further theyd like me to consider. Neither party has 
made any further comments, so Ill set out my decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision of 23 February 2022, I wrote:
To decide Mr Ms complaint, Ive thought about whether Cumberland reduced Mr Cs 
mortgage interest rate in line with the product terms outlined in his mortgage offer of 
2009. And Ive thought about Cumberlands customer service to Mr M when he tried 
to contact it following its letter about the change of rate in April 2020. 
The rate change in April 2020
I acknowledge that Mr M has said the rate change is no longer the main focus of his 
complaint. But as it was part of the original complaint he raised, I have given that 
matter some thought.
Ive seen that Mr Ms mortgage offer of 2009 confirms that his mortgage interest rate 
will not reduce lower than 4.5%, even if the Bank of England base rate falls to lower 
than 0.5%. Ive quoted the part that covers that in the background section above. 
Cumberlands letter of 3 April 2020 confirms that Mr Ms mortgage rate would be 
falling to 4.50%. As thats as low as the mortgage offer of 2009 says Mr Ms 
mortgage rate will reduce to  and hes not said he changed to a different mortgage 
rate product after 2009  Im satisfied that Cumberland changed his rate fairly in  
April 2020.Cumberlands customer service to Mr M in April 2020
I can see from Mr Ms submissions that he feels strongly about the level of customer 
service he experienced from Cumberland in April 2020. And I agree with him that 
Cumberlands failure to find evidence of his contact doesnt mean he didnt 
experience poor customer service from Cumberland. 
While he hasnt provided copies of letters or emails to Cumberland from that time,  
Mr M has provided itemised phone statements  which he says are from 2020  
showing that he called Cumberland on two occasions in April. He says he spoke to a 
Cumberland representative on both occasions and he didnt receive the follow-up 
calls he was promised. Ive seen no reason to doubt Mr Ms recollections about those 
calls, so Ive considered the circumstances at the time and the impact Cumberlands 
customer service has had on him.
I understand that Mr M was frustrated by Cumberlands failure to help him in        
April 2020. However, this was at a time when the UK was instructed to go into 
lockdown for the first time as a result of the covid 19 pandemic. I dont think 
Cumberland could have predicted the pandemic or that it would be required to close 
its offices, forcing staff to work from home. Typically, lenders were inundated with 
requests for payment holidays due to the resulting Government/Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidance about helping borrowers affected. So, I think it likely 
Cumberland was dealing with substantially more enquiries than before the pandemic, 
while operating in a lockdown/homeworking environment. I think it would have taken 
some time to adjust to that. And I think its understandable that its customer service 
standards would have suffered.
From what Mr M has said it didnt respond at all to his enquiries. I think its 
reasonable for Mr M to expect much better levels of customer service than that. But 
Ive seen that Mr M was able to make his complaint and Cumberland responded to 
that by 29 June 2020. So, I have seen that Cumberlands lack of response wasnt 
unending.
With regard to the impact on Mr M, I dont think Cumberland would have reduced his 
mortgage interest rate further, had it responded to his calls in April 2020. I say that 
because his rate was already as low as it could go under the terms applying to his 
interest rate product. And, in its final response letter, Cumberland said Mr M is free to 
remortgage to a different lender to get a new rate  Cumberland has confirmed to us 
it wasnt offering a lower rate at that time. So, aside from the frustration caused to   
Mr M, I dont think the impact of Cumberlands failure to return his calls was 
significant.
Id also explain that a lender isnt obliged to record all telephone conversations or 
store the ones it does record for a specific period of time. So, I dont think 
Cumberlands failure to find the call recordings in question here, indicates a lack of 
integrity on its part, particularly when it may have had technological difficulties due to 
its staff unexpectedly having to work from home.
On balance, I think Cumberland should have handled Mr Ms enquiries with greater 
care. However, taking account of the circumstances at the time and the level of 
impact on Mr M, I dont think Cumberland needs to make a monetary award or offer 
Mr M a new mortgage interest rate to resolve his complaint. I think Cumberlands 
apology as given in its final response letter of 29 June 2020 is sufficient.I have reviewed my provisional findings, but as neither party has asked me to consider any 
further submissions, Ive seen nothing to make me think I should change them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Cumberland Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman