DRN-3685007
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) misled him when he 
made his initial currency purchase. He feels hes lost out on roughly £20 as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons: 
Mr Ts clarified that his primary concern is the way in which Halifax explains its buy 
back service at the point of the initial currency purchase. In essence he believes if it 
had been clearer about the fact the exchange rates differ, he wouldve gone 
elsewhere to purchase his currency. So, Ive considered whether Halifax have been 
reasonably clear about the purchase Mr T agreed to.
Ive looked at the FAQ section that Mr T read before making his purchase, and I cant 
agree that it is misleading. This is because it confirms Halifax charges no fees or 
commission (which Im satisfied it didnt for either of the transactions Mr T made) and 
that it would be willing to buy back Mr Ts currency based on the exchange rate of 
that day (which Im also satisfied it did).
Halifax were clear about the price Mr T was purchasing his currency for, and that he 
had the option of selling currency back later for a potentially different rate. Its terms 
and FAQs made no further promises about what rate he could expect to receive 
when he returned, and I cant hold Halifax responsible for any assumptions Mr T may 
have made beyond this statement.
Mr T would prefer Halifax explicitly stated in its FAQs that its buy and sell rates differ 
 but having different rates for buying and selling is common practice when 
exchanging currency. Im satisfied Mr T was given the rates on offer at the time of 
each transaction and it was Mr Ts choice to decide if he accepted the rate offered or 
decided to use a different business.
Mr T has provided examples from elsewhere in the industry that he feels are clearer 
about the impact of any charges, fees and commission. But having read Halifaxs 
terms Im satisfied they are reasonably clear about its own exchanges. Im not 
persuaded that Mr T was misled.
I understand Mr T feels on return he was offered a poor exchange rate, but this 
service cannot dictate what exchange rate a bank should use. The rate may be 
different to what might have been available from other banks or the wider market. But 
Halifax is entitled to make its own decision about what rate to set, just as Mr T is 
entitled to decide whether to proceed with the exchange or go elsewhere.
Whilst Mr T would like Halifax to do more, Im satisfied it acted fairly and did 
everything it needed to. I wont be asking it to take any further action for his 
complaint.
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman