DRN-4406110
The complaint
Mrs L says Alan Boswell Insurance Brokers Limited mis-sold her a Landlord Legal Expenses 
and Rent Protection policy. 
What happened
Mrs L took out a Landlord Legal Expenses and Rent Protection policy through Alan Boswell 
in May 2020. In September 2022 she claimed on her policy as she wanted assistance to 
regain possession of her property. The claim was turned down because Mrs Ls lease 
agreement didnt meet the definition of a tenancy her policy contained. Mrs L said Alan 
Boswell didnt make that clear to her when the policy was sold.
Alan Boswell said Mrs L took the policy out online on a non-advised basis. As its website 
had subsequently changed it didnt have access to the information Mrs L would have seen at 
the time. But it did provide her with policy information which contained the relevant 
information and made clear she needed to read this. However, it accepted the policy hadnt 
been suitable for Mrs L from the start and said it would refund the premium she paid for this. 
Our investigator said it wasnt clear what Mrs L would have seen when taking out the policy. 
However, she was satisfied shed been provided with policy documents which contained 
details of the tenancy agreements covered by the policy. So she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She believed she had told Alan Boswell about the type of tenancy she 
had when taking out the policy and queried why it wasnt able to provide a call recording in 
relation to this. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I can see Alan Boswell queried in correspondence with us whether Mrs L had referred 
this complaint to us within six months of the date of its final response (as required by our 
rules). I can see that its final response was issued in November 2022 and Mrs L referred the 
complaint to us in February 2023. So Im satisfied it has been referred in time which is why 
Ive gone on to consider the merits of it. 
Ive thought first about whether Alan Boswell recommended this policy to Mrs L. I understand 
she took the policy out online and its terms of business say when purchasing a policy on-
line, we will provide sufficient information for you to make an informed decision (i.e. no 
advice given). I havent seen evidence to show in this case Alan Boswell did anything 
different so I think its likely this was a non-advised sale. That means Alan Boswell didnt 
have check whether the policy was suitable for Mrs L but it did have to provide her with 
clear, fair and not misleading information so she could decide whether it was right for her.
The issue in this case is Mrs L had a lease agreement for her property with a local authority 
who I understand would then sub-let the property. But its a requirement of her policy that a 
tenancy agreement must be in place for the duration of the policy. The policy contains a 
definition of tenancy agreement and her insurers view was the lease she had with the local 
authority didnt fall within that definition. 
Mrs L has expressed concern in correspondence with us about the decision to decline cover 
for her claim. But that isnt something Im considering. Claims decisions are the responsibility 
of the insurer of her policy. I appreciate Alan Boswell may have been acting on their behalf in 
dealing with this, but any complaint about that would need to be considered separately 
against the insurer. 
The issue Im considering is what happened when the policy was sold. And its not clear 
what Mrs L saw at that point because Alan Boswell hasnt been able to provide information 
about it. But its responsibility under the relevant rules was to provide appropriate
information about the policy so a customer could make an informed decision about
whether to take it out. And that should include information about the significant benefits,
exclusions and limitations of the policy. I think a significant exclusion or limitation is one that
would tend to affect the decision of customers generally to buy.
I dont think the policy definition of a tenancy agreement would do so. The definition includes 
Assured Shorthold Tenancies which I understand are the basis on which around three 
quarter of privately rented properties in England are let. It also covers other types of tenancy 
agreement. Its unfortunate it doesnt appear to cover Mrs Ls situation but I think hers are 
relatively specific circumstances and not ones that would affect the decision of customers 
more generally. So I dont think this is something Alan Boswell did need to draw to her 
attention. And I can see it provided policy information to Mrs L which contained details of the 
requirement for a tenancy agreement to be in place and the definition of that. 
I appreciate theres been discussion over whether Mrs L had a separate conversation with 
Alan Boswell as part of the sales process. If she did, and asked specific questions about her 
circumstances, Id expect Alan Boswell to have provided clear information in response to 
those. And I can see Alan Boswell said in its final response that Mrs L had called following 
problems in completing the online process. But the only call its provided is from June 2022. 
Ive listened to that and it follows difficulties with the renewal of the policy. But theres no 
discussion of the cover itself. Alan Boswell has subsequently confirmed it has no records of 
a call from when the policy was first sold. So it appears the reference in its final response 
was an error. And while Mrs L has suggested a call did take place she hasnt provided more 
information in support of that or any detailed recollections of what happened in that 
conversation. Given that, and on balance, there isnt enough for me to conclude Mrs L did 
speak to Alan Boswell at the point the policy was sold. 
In any event even if I was satisfied there had been a failing by Alan Boswell at that time, in 
order to conclude it needed to take action in relation to the claim Mrs L made Id also need to 
be satisfied that, but for that failing, Mrs L would have had cover in place for her claim. So 
thered need to be information to show that she would have wanted and been able to find 
cover elsewhere at a price shed have been prepared to pay. I havent seen evidence to 
show shed have done that. Finally, for completeness I can see in its response to Mrs L Alan Boswell agreed this policy 
hadnt been suitable for her from the start and agreed to refund the premiums shed paid. 
However, Mrs L says it only refunded the premium for the most recent year. Mrs L made 
clear in correspondence with us that this wasnt an issue that formed part of this complaint 
but she can of course raise this with Alan Boswell if she remains unhappy. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman