DRN-3440288
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L and Miss L complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim 
against their travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs L and Miss L have a travel insurance policy with 
UKI which they took out in February 2020. They planned a trip with departure and return 
dates in July 2020. 
In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, in March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. I understand 
that the airline cancelled Mr and Mrs L and Miss Ls flights. It offered travel vouchers for 
future flights, which werent acceptable to Mr and Mrs L and Miss L. Subsequently, the 
airline refunded the cost of the outbound flight. In June 2020, Mrs L contacted UKI in 
relation to the cost of the return flights. Mr and Mrs L and Miss L later recovered the cost 
of the return flights from a credit card provider. Im conscious that is a very short 
summary of what happened over several months.
Mrs L says that when she first took out the policy, she asked if she was covered for 
cancellation and disruption as a result of Covid-19 and was told that she was. She says 
that when she contacted UKI in order to make a claim, she received poor service. Mrs L 
says that UKI refused to pay her claim for what were unrecovered losses at the time, 
gave conflicting and confusing replies, didnt return calls, didnt do what it said it would 
do and in a phone call on 7 January 2021, agreed to settle the claim on receipt of certain 
information then refused to do so without providing an adequate explanation. 
In response to the complaint, UKI sent Mrs L compensation in relation to poor service. 
Mr and Mrs L and Miss L want UKI to apologise and to compensate them for the time it 
took to deal with the claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI needed 
to do more than it had already done. Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator. She said 
that whilst she wasnt claiming for the disputed amount  which had been recovered from 
elsewhere  she wanted UKI to apologise and pay compensation for the time shed 
spent on this matter. Mrs L asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was 
passed to me to decide. 
In this decision, Im looking at the matters complained of in relation to which UKI 
provided its final responses on 13 January 2021 and 28 January 2021. As the 
investigator explained, we cant look at complaints referred to us more than six months 
after the business final response unless there are exceptional circumstances, which isnt 
the case here.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs L in particular has strong feelings about this 
matter. Shes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all 
this carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that neither 
Mrs L nor Mr L and Miss L will take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think are 
the central issues in the case.
I dont think that UKI misled Mrs L about cover for Covid-19 when she took out the policy.  
Thats because the policy covers cancellation arising out of changes in FCDO advice. That 
doesnt mean that UKI will always pay such a claim, as any claim is subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
It's common ground that UKI provided poor service. In its final response letter dated           
13 January 2021, it apologised and paid compensation of £30 in relation to confusion around 
e-mails which said that the claim was closed, inability to find the policy on one occasion and 
an incomplete request for information. In UKIs final response letter of 28 January 2021, it 
apologised and paid compensation of £150 in relation to misleading information about the 
claim in a phone call of 7 January 2021.
Ive listened to the phone call on 7 January 2021 between UKI and Mrs L. UKI told Mrs L, 
incorrectly, that on receipt of certain information it would pay her claim. In cases like these, 
we dont proceed on the basis that UKI are obliged to act in accordance with the incorrect 
information. We look to see the effect of the error. In this case, Mr and Mrs L and Miss L 
were no doubt disappointed to learn a few weeks later that UKI wouldnt pay their claim.  
Mr and Mrs L and Miss L have recovered their losses and are no longer making a claim 
against the policy. But I dont think that UKI was at fault in declining the claim when it did so. 
Thats because the policy excludes recoverable expenses, which are defined in the policy as 
any expenses that can be recovered from elsewhere. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L and 
Miss L dont want to provide us with information about why the voucher offered by the airline 
isnt suitable for them. But, based on what Ive seen, I dont think that UKI was at fault in 
coming to the conclusion that the airlines offer of a voucher meant that Mr and Mrs L and 
Miss L had recovered their losses. Theres no provision in the policy to the effect that UKI 
will cover losses not recovered in cash. 
Considering everything, I dont think that UKI needs to do more to put matters right. It has 
already apologised, and I think that the compensation UKI has paid in relation to these 
matters is fair and reasonable. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, 
extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L, Mrs L and 
Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman