DRN-2667896
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make from 
his account.
What happened
Mr C disputes a total of £860 of payments from his accounts on 5 April 2020 using mobile 
banking. He says he had sold his phone before these were made and had wiped all his data.
HSBC said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that the payments which started at 
12:25 that day were made from the phone Mr C had been using previously. There was 
nothing to show that the device had been reactivated which would have been expected if it 
had been wiped. And to access the phone his security information would have been needed. 
Several of the payments were to existing payees. And the ones to a new payee would have 
needed Mr Cs secure key password. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr C had explained that he 
had sold his phone at about 12 noon that day. And that he had undertaken a factory reset 
which would have removed all his data. There was no explanation how as he says that the 
third party would have been able to access his mobile banking without reinputting his 
security information and reactivating the same device. Even if the phone hadnt been 
properly reset before being sold the third party would have needed access to the secure 
password to set up a new payee. And it didnt make sense for that person to have been 
making payments to existing payees that wouldnt be of any benefit.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he thought we were 
always going to side with HSBC. And that he wasnt a thief or a liar. He had operated an 
account for a number of years with no incident and he felt cheated and appalled at what had 
happened. Even the authorities wouldnt help him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated. And if they werent authorised Mr C wouldnt generally 
be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how the payments were made?
- Did Mr C authorise the payments? 
- Did Mr C keep his security details safe?
Im satisfied from what HSBC has provided that these payments were correctly 
authenticated using Mr Cs security information. The question is whether he consented to 
them.
Mr C hasnt been able to give an explanation for how a third party discovered his details and 
made these payments. His version of events and which isnt supported with evidence is that 
he sold his phone. And that somehow the person who bought the phone was able to access 
his banking app and made these payments.
The information from HSBC shows no reactivation of his existing mobile phone access at or 
around that time. A new device was registered later that afternoon which is consistent with 
Mr C changing his phone as he says. And that new device was subsequently used with his 
account. HSBC says that Mr C didnt report the loss that day and that this was on 7 April 
2020. It has though provided a record of access to the account also through its automated 
telephone service on 6 April 2020 when the balance of the account would have been made 
known.
Our investigator has already explained what a third party would have needed to be able to 
carry out a fraud in this way. And that even if Mr C hadnt wiped his phone or had been 
somehow tricked by the person he was dealing with that a new payee couldnt be set up 
without his security information so that a code could be generated. I know hes said that the 
person using it might have tried the existing payees to test things. There were three such 
payments to those payees. Although each was only for £5 I find that to be an unlikely thing 
to happen as this would be of no benefit to the fraudster and especially as here on three 
occasions. In addition, I note that not all the money then in Mr Cs accounts was paid out  
something Id have expected to happen if a fraudster had free access.
Based on what Mr C says I dont think that a third party could have accessed his phone in 
this way if it had been reset. If Mr C hadnt reset it and somehow that allowed the third party 
to make the payments and to access his security details then Id need to think about whether 
he was grossly negligent. That would be something beyond normal carelessness and if 
things had happened in this way then Id take the view that Mr C didnt keep his details 
sufficiently safe and by not doing so was grossly negligent. That would still mean he was 
liable for the payments.
I appreciate Mr C says he has reported this to the authorities. And that he has consistently 
said he didnt make these payments. I wont be able to say exactly what happened and I am 
thinking about what is most likely. Im afraid Im not persuaded on the evidence that its most 
likely that a third party was able to access his account in the way Mr C says and make these 
payments. And so, I find that its reasonable for HSBC to hold Mr C responsible for them and 
I wont be asking it to do anything further. I know Mr C will be very disappointed with this 
outcome.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman