DRN-3983005
The complaint
Mr D complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim against his travel insurance 
policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr D has travel insurance underwritten by AXA as a benefit of a 
bank account. He had a trip which had departure and return dates of 19 September 2021 
and 26 September 2021 respectively. On his return home, Mr D discovered that items 
were missing from his luggage. 
In September 2021, Mr D made a claim against his policy and AXA sent him a claim 
pack. Mr D says that he didnt receive the claim pack. Ill refer to that in more detail 
below. AXA sent the pack to Mr D again. Mr D claimed for the loss of cigarettes, biscuits, 
perfumes, and a blazer. He said that all the items were bought on 25 September 2021 by 
his mother for him, his fianc, or his brother. 
On 28 November 2021, AXA asked Mr D to provide a loss report from the airline 
confirming that the loss had been reported and stating what actions it took. Mr D 
responded to say that he told the airline of the loss via twitter. There were further 
exchanges between the parties and AXA wrote to Mr D asking for a loss report and proof 
of purchase of the missing items.
Mr D complains that that he told AXA that he reported the loss to the airport, the airline 
and the baggage handler by twitter or e-mail or phone and that he couldnt recall the 
details or initially find any digital trace of his contact. He says that AXA is asking him to 
provide receipts a year after the loss. Mr D says that he didnt receive AXAs earlier 
letters in which it says it asked for these items. He says that had it not been for AXAs 
delay, he would have provided it with everything it needed for his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
treated Mr D unfairly. The investigator said that Mr D hadnt provided proof of loss or 
proof of purchase/ownership.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
AXA accused him of lying and said that he hadnt reported the theft. 
UK police forces dont take reports of loss abroad.
He called the police abroad and in the UK.
AXAs delay in dealing with the claim meant that its too late to get evidence of 
purchase but he could ask his mother to get written evidence. 
Mr D asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
Mr D has previously complained about AXAs delay in dealing with this claim. That 
matter isnt dealt with again here. In this decision, Im considering Mr Ds complaint 
about AXA declining his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
Subject to the policy terms, the policy covers loss or theft of baggage and valuables. The 
special conditions relevant to baggage cover includes the following: 
Special conditions relating to claims
1. You must report to the local Police within 24 hours of discovery or as soon as possible 
after that and obtain a written report of the loss, theft or attempted theft of all Baggage and 
Valuables.
2. If Baggage is lost, stolen or damaged while in the care of a carrier, transport company, 
authority or hotel You must report to them, in writing, details of the loss, theft or damage and 
obtain written confirmation. If Baggage is lost, stolen or damaged whilst in the care of an 
airline You must:
a. obtain a Property Irregularity Report from the airline
b. give formal written notice of the claim to the airline within the time limit contained in their 
conditions of carriage (please retain a copy)
c. retain all travel tickets and tags for submission if a claim is to be made under this policy.
3. Receipts for items lost, stolen or damaged must be retained as these will help You to 
substantiate Your claim.[] 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr Ds  
complaint because I dont think that AXA treated him unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain 
why:   
Essentially, Mr D says that AXA didnt ask him for relevant information to support his 
claim until many months after the loss. He says that he didnt receive its earlier 
correspondence. AXA says that it sent Mr D information about what he needed to 
provide soon after he made his claim. 
When theres contradictory evidence, I need to decide what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. On 
balance, Im satisfied that AXA sent Mr D a letter on 30 September 2021 which set 
out what Mr D needed to provide to support his claim. AXA has provided a copy of 
that letter and its correctly addressed to Mr D. It followed that letter with an e-mail to 
Mr D. AXA sent the information to Mr D again by letter of 1 October 2021. AXA isnt 
responsible for any failures in the postal system or on the part of an email service 
provider, 
Included in the letter of 30 September 2021, was a document headed Important 
Information, Documents required for us to assess your claim which went on to 
say: provide us with evidence that you owned the item/s [] Examples of 
evidence include receipts, invoices, bank statements, order confirmations, 
photographs or instruction manuals. []
Loss report  You need to provide us with documentation that confirms you 
have reported the missing item/s. [] Examples include a police report, letter 
from your hotel or tour operator or property irregularity report (PIR) from the 
airline. []
I think that AXA set out for Mr D in a timely way what information he was required to 
provide to support his claim. Its unfortunate that Mr D didnt receive that information 
but thats not AXAs fault. 
I dont think that AXA was at fault for concluding that Mr D hasnt shown that hed 
reported the loss to the local police within 24 hours of discovery of the loss or as 
soon as possible after that, as required by the policy. I note what  Mr D says about 
reporting the matter to the police, but I think that AXA is entitled to rely on the 
requirement in the policy about this. 
Mr D has provided evidence - in the form of screenshots of his tweets and replies - 
that he reported the loss to the airport. I dont think that AXA is at fault in deciding 
that isnt sufficient in this case. Thats because the policy requires notice to, and a 
property irregularity report from, the airline in the circumstances that arose here. So, 
reporting the matter to the airport isnt whats required by the policy terms. 
I think that AXA was right to say that Mr Ds twitter feed doesnt show a report of loss 
to the airline up to 29 September 2021. The screenshots Mr D has provided show 
tweets to and from the airport, not the airline. 
Considering everything, I dont think that AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
deciding that Mr D hasnt provided the evidence required by the policy to support his 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman