DRN-2928977
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) used compensation for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to reduce a debt he owed to it and to send the 
remaining balance to his former trustee in bankruptcy. Mr S says the compensation should 
have been paid directly to him. 
The Insolvency Service declared an interest in this complaint and is a party to it. 
I know that most of Mr Ss borrowing was actually taken out with NatWest. But Ill refer to 
RBS in this decision because thats the business responsible for answering the complaint. 
What happened
The background to this case is lengthy and I summarise it below. 
Mr S had a credit card and number of loans with RBS over the years. His credit card account 
was opened in 2001. From 1992 onwards, he took out a number of loans with RBS. PPI was 
sold alongside loans with the account number ending: 4966, 8580, 9927, 5118, 1612, 1520, 
6660, 1714 and 7076. RBS told us it could not trace a PPI policy alongside loan account 
ending 6067. 
Mr S became insolvent. On or around 17 December 2013, a bankruptcy order was made, 
and a trustee was appointed to administer his bankruptcy estate. At this point, RBS told the 
trustee that Mr S owed it £31,634.82. During the bankruptcy process, it received £14,350.38. 
Mr S was discharged from bankruptcy on 17 December 2014. The trustee issued his final 
report on 12 June 2017. RBS said that even after Mr S was discharged, he still owed it 
£17,284.44. 
It looks as though Mr S complained to RBS about his credit card initially. RBS agreed PPI 
was mis-sold and then offered to pay compensation. However, Mr Ss former trustee said 
they still had an interest in the compensation. I can see that RBS paid PPI compensation of 
£10,206.64 to Mr Ss credit card account. There was an outstanding credit card balance of 
£5,305.75, so the account was then in credit when the compensation was paid. RBS says 
the remaining balance was paid by cheque to the former trustee.
Mr S then complained to RBS that it had mis-sold PPI alongside his loans. RBS agreed PPI 
had been mis-sold alongside loans 5118, 1612, 1520, 6660, 1744 and 7076. But instead of 
paying compensation to Mr S directly, it decided to use the compensation to reduce the 
outstanding balances on Mr Ss loans. RBS says it used £11,349.34 to reduce his balance. It 
says it then mistakenly sent the remaining funds to the former trustee, who had again 
expressed an interest in this compensation. The trustee then returned those funds to RBS. 
Either way, none of the compensation was paid directly to Mr S. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. RBS told us that Mr S had cancelled the PPI 
policy in respect of loan 9927 in the cooling off period and he didnt pay a premium for the 
policy. It said it thought the complaint hed made in respect of loans 4966 and 8580 was 
brought to our service too late. It also said it was fair to offset the compensation it owed Mr S 
from his outstanding balance. 
Our adjudicator thought the action RBS had taken was fair. He also thought the way RBS 
had dealt with the complaint was fair. Mr S didnt agree. He said the aim of PPI claims was 
to provide redress to a consumer and it should not be used to offset historical loans. He 
thought RBS should have never provided him with so much borrowing and it should have 
been obvious Mr S would default. He didnt think RBS should be able to keep the PPI 
compensation because it meant it would be compensated for that failure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make clear that I cannot consider whether RBS should have granted the loans in 
the first place. Thats outside the scope of this complaint. Im looking at whether the 
decisions RBS made in connection with how it dealt with Mr Ss compensation was fair. 
I also note that Mr S doesnt appear to dispute what our adjudicator said in respect of loans 
9927, 4966, 8580 and 6067. His disagreement is about how RBS paid compensation and so 
that is what I have considered in this decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but after carefully considering all the issues in this case, I 
havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
I think its important for me to explain a little bit about what happened when Mr S became 
bankrupt. Effectively, all his debts were brought into the bankruptcy and any assets he had 
were then split up between his creditors. Quite often, when someone becomes bankrupt, 
their creditors dont get back everything that was owed. In this case, RBS said Mr S owed it 
£31,634.82 when he became bankrupt. After everything was paid, he still owed it 
£17,284.44.
What that means in practice is that RBS cant bring any court proceedings against Mr S to 
recover that outstanding amount. But the debt hasnt disappeared. It just means RBS cant 
take further action to get it back. 
As the circumstances were slightly different for each financial product, Ive dealt with the 
loan and the credit card separately below. 
Credit card 
As I said above, RBS agreed it mis-sold PPI to Mr S. It calculated that compensation at 
£10,206.64. It used £5,305.75 to repay the outstanding balance on Mr Ss credit card. This is 
called offsetting. And the remaining amount was paid to the former trustee in bankruptcy. 
So what that meant was that at the time when the compensation was calculated, RBS owed 
Mr S some money. But Mr S also owed RBS something as well. And in those circumstances, 
I think it is fair for RBS to use that money to reduce what Mr S still owed on his credit card. 
Of course, Mr Ss credit card account was then in credit when RBS had taken off what it was 
owed. And so Ive next thought about whether it was fair for RBS to pay the former trustee, 
rather than Mr S directly. 
I can see that the former trustee had expressed an interest in this compensation. When the 
bankruptcy order was made, Mr S had already taken out the PPI policy for his credit card 
loans and therefore any compensation for the mis-sale of PPI is deemed an asset of the 
bankruptcy estate. It looks as though the trustee agreed to RBS offsetting the amount it was 
owed. But the remaining compensation was to be shared amongst Mr Ss creditors. Once 
the former trustee had expressed an interest in that remaining compensation, RBS had to 
pay it to the former trustee. 
I think its important for me to point out that although PPI premiums were added to Mr Ss 
account, hed only have actually paid all the premiums if hed cleared his outstanding balance, which he didnt. So if the compensation was paid directly to Mr S, hed be getting a 
refund of PPI premiums which he hadnt actually paid. And I cant say that would be fair.  
Overall, Im satisfied that RBS acted fairly when it offset the amount it was owed from Mr Ss 
credit card compensation and then paid the remainder to the trustee. 
Loans 
RBS offset all of the PPI compensation for the loans against the amount Mr S owed it. It 
initially paid an amount to the trustee in error, but that was refunded back to RBS in 2020. 
In respect of the loans, when compensation was calculated, RBS owed Mr S that money. 
But as Ive set out above, Mr S still owed RBS a larger amount. And although I again 
appreciate Mr S had been discharged from bankruptcy and RBS could no longer chase him 
for that debt, the debt had not disappeared and according to RBS, it remained over £17,000. 
I think its fair for RBS to use the funds it owes Mr S to reduce that outstanding amount. 
The way RBS dealt with the complaint 
I can see that Mr S was initially unhappy that RBS had indicated he would receive the 
compensation directly by cheque, but then decided not to refund him. I can see why that 
would cause Mr S some frustration. But looking at the acceptance forms he signed at the 
outset, I can see there is a line that says: 
If I am, or have been, subject toBankruptcyany payment will be made to the 
relevant account I hold with [RBS]
So he was on notice at the time he accepted RBSs offer that he wouldnt receive the 
compensation directly if he had been bankrupt. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that what RBS said about the cheques caused Mr S any further financial loss. So I dont 
need to tell RBS to pay Mr S any compensation in this regard. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr S, but after giving very careful consideration to the issues he 
raised in his complaint, I havent upheld it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. It is fair for The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to use compensation from mis-sold PPI to reduce Mr Ss outstanding debt with 
the bank and to pay the remainder to the former trustee in bankruptcy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask The Insolvency 
Service to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman