DRN-2337397
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that when HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed a joint account in her 
name and the name of Mr O, they sent one cheque for the closing balance, rather than two 
separate cheques for half of the closing balance, and they didnt send a closing statement as 
theyd promised to do. 
Mrs E has also complained that in August 2015, HSBC allowed Mr Os partner to submit a 
signature on the joint account to replace her signature. Shes also concerned that HSBC 
may have other accounts open in her name, that she isnt aware of because she doesnt 
receive any bank statements for them.
What happened
On 26 April 2019, Mr O and Mrs E instructed HSBC to close their joint account, and Mrs E 
was sent a cheque for £69.71 which was the credit for the closing balance. On 17 May 2019, 
Mrs E returned the cheque to HSBC, with the request that two cheques be issued, made 
payable in equal amounts for Mr O and herself. 
HSBC sent Mrs E a final response letter on 2 October 2019 in which they said they hadnt 
received any previous instruction from Mrs E about the cheque which is why they hadnt 
issued two cheques. They said theyd now cancelled the previous cheque and sent two 
separate cheques in Mrs Es name and Mr Os name. Mrs E informed our service of this and 
said that the two separate cheques had been received and would be paid into their separate 
bank accounts.
In relation to the second element of Mrs Es complaint, she says that in July 2015 she 
received a letter from HSBC which said: we are unable to action your requests as the 
signature on the letter does not match the signature that we hold on record for you. Mrs E 
then wrote to HSBC on 3 August 2015 about what she considered was a set up by HSBC to 
allow representatives of Mr Os new partner submit a specimen signature to replace Mrs Es 
signature on the joint account. 
In her letter to HSBC of 10 September 2019, Mrs E also asked to be informed as to whether 
any account is held at HSBC in her name, but that she isnt sent statements for. 
On 20 August 2020 our investigator wrote to Mrs E about her complaint. She said that as 
HSBC had now sent the two separate cheques for the closing balance, that part of her 
complaint had been resolved. She said she couldnt comment on whether Mrs Es signature 
had been changed by Mr Os partner because, as Mrs E herself said, there was no evidence 
to say what exactly may have happened, but Mrs E could make a subject access request of 
HSBC to see what information they held in relation to her account, including in relation to 
any change of signature. Lastly, our investigator explained shed asked HSBC to confirm 
whether it had any other accounts open, in Mrs Es name. HSBC then confirmed theyd 
resent the closing statement to Mrs E, and they confirmed they didnt have any other 
accounts open, in Mrs Es name.
Mrs E was concerned that HSBC may have only removed her name from the joint account, 
rather than closing it, so allowing Mr O to continue using the account. She said that shed 
given us a full account of what happened in 2015, which she believes HSBC facilitated to 
allow her signature to be updated without her consent. She also said that she didnt believe 
a subject access request would uncover what actually took place in 2015. Lastly, Mrs E 
requested proof from HSBC that the joint account was properly closed. 
Our investigator made further enquiries of HSBC and on receipt of additional information 
confirmed to Mrs E that the joint account had been closed; HSBC held no other open 
accounts in her name; her signature hadnt been changed on the account since 1996; and 
the cheque sent to her for half of the closing balance had been debited from HSBCs 
suspense account on or around 17 October 2020. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why, addressing each of Mrs 
Es complaint points in turn.
Firstly, in relation to the closing of the joint account, HSBC have provided a closing 
statement which is automatically generated when the account is closed. Theyve advised 
that at the time Mrs E returned the cheque for £69.71 and requested two separate cheques 
for half of the closing credit, the joint account was closed, so those transactions had to be 
run through a suspense account. HSBC have also confirmed that the cheque issued to Mrs 
E has been debited out of their suspense account, so should appear on Mrs Es bank 
statement on or around 17 October. Having carefully considered all of the available 
evidence, Im satisfied that the joint account that Mr O and Mrs E had with HSBC has now 
been closed.
Secondly, HSBC have confirmed this to our service that they have no open accounts in the 
name of Mrs E, and Ive not been provided with any evidence to suggest otherwise. So, Im 
satisfied that on closing the joint account, Mrs E no longer has any open bank account with 
HSBC.
Thirdly, Mrs E has asked that we investigate events that she believes took place in an HSBC 
branch in 2015, which she thinks led to her signature being changed on the account. I 
havent been provided with any evidence to show those events took place, so I cant 
comment on that further. However, I have been provided with evidence to show that Mrs Es 
signature hasnt been changed on the account since 1996. So, on balance, Im not satisfied 
that any new signature was provided for Mrs Es account with HSBC in 2015.
I think HSBC have satisfactorily answered all of Mrs Es outstanding queries in relation to the 
joint account she had held with Mr O. I therefore dont uphold this complaint and I dont 
require HSBC to do anything further in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman