DRN-3481232
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) blocked his account.
What happened
Mr K had a current account with Lloyds. In September 2020, he tried to make a payment 
from his current account using telephone banking and he was referred to Lloyds fraud team. 
They couldnt verify Mr Ks identity and blocked his account. He was asked to go to a branch 
with ID so his account could be unblocked. The account was unblocked in August 2021.
Mr K complained. He said Lloyds had no right to block his account or ask him to go to a 
branch to verify himself. Hed banked with Lloyds for over 20 years so it shouldnt be a 
requirement. He said he didnt want to visit a branch because of the risk of catching the 
Covid-19 virus. As a result of what happened, he was without access to his account for over 
eight months.
In May 2021, Lloyds responded to Mr Ks complaint. They said they needed proof of identity 
when discussing an account over the phone. Mr K declined to answer security questions  
but they were needed to prevent fraud. This was to protect both Mr K and Lloyds. Their 
request for him to visit a branch therefore remained in place, and his account would remain 
blocked until then. But they paid Mr K £50 as an apology for his experience.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator felt Lloyds acted reasonably. Lloyds had 
had security concerns when Mr K called them in September 2020. He refused to give certain 
information to Lloyds when he called, including his date of birth. And his voice sounded 
younger than his age. So, Lloyds request that Mr K visit a branch was a reasonable one. He 
noted that Mr K didnt do that for some time.
Mr K asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the correspondence between Mr K and our investigator. So, let me say  we are an 
informal dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair decisions where there is a 
complaint from a consumer about a financial business. We do this based on the facts of the 
case as we see them, having taken evidence from both parties. We dont take sides. 
It's an unfortunate fact that banking fraud is increasing and all banks, including Lloyds, have 
processes and checks in place to reduce fraud  to protect customers and Lloyds. 
Its also important to say that the banks regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
made several announcements during the pandemic  which covered how they expected 
businesses like Lloyds to act. And  the FCA said that while online and phone services were 
to be encouraged, firms (such as Lloyds) should continue to be vigilant about security 
breaches. The FCA were concerned there would be more fraud and scams. In other words, 
the FCA expected firms to continue to maintain their standards of security  rather than relax 
them. And so, in the light of this guidance, I dont think I can say that Lloyds acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint.
I can see that Mr K called Lloyds in September 2020 to make some payments. But he failed 
Lloyds security checks, and he also refused subsequently to give his date of birth or answer 
other security  questions. Its important to note that such questions may be personalised to 
Mr Ks situation, and so they wouldnt necessarily be ones he had been happy to answer 
before. Ive also seen in Lloyds notes that they werent happy that Mr K sounded younger 
than he was  so they were concerned.
And so, in those circumstances, Lloyds asked Mr K to go to a branch with ID documents so 
they could unblock his account. Mr K argues that they had no right to ask him to do that, and 
it put him at risk of the Covid-19 pandemic. I can appreciate where hes coming from  but 
equally, I can see that that was Lloyds process for identifying customers  and as the FCA 
said, banks werent expected to relax their security checks and processes because of the 
pandemic. And so  I cant say that Lloyds were wrong to ask Mr K to go to a branch. I can 
see that he didnt do that for several months and so couldnt use his account for a long 
period of time.  I can appreciate that must have been inconvenient for Mr K. But on balance, 
and in the circumstances of what happened, I cant say that Lloyds acted unreasonably.
Lloyds apologised for Mr Ks experience and paid compensation of £50. I think that was the 
right thing to do. 
I can see that Mr K feels strongly about what happened  but having reviewed what both he 
and Lloyds have told us, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman