DRN-1196100
 
The complaint
Mrs B, represented by a third party, says that Elevate Credit International Limited trading as 
Sunny.co.uk (Sunny) lent money to her that she couldn't afford to repay.
What happened
Based on the information provided, Mrs B was provided with ten loans by Sunny between 
September 2018 and May 2019.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 20 Sep 2018 6 Jan 2019 6 £150
2 4 Oct 2018 6 Jan 2019 6 £150
3 21 Oct 2018 6 Jan 2019 6 £150
4 28 Oct 2018 6 Jan 2019 6 £100
5 13 Jan 2019 29 Mar 2019 6 £150
6 17 Jan 2019 30 Apr 2019 6 £150
7 23 Jan 2019 23 Jul 2019 6 £100
8 9 Feb 2019 24 Jul 2019 6 £150
9 8 Apr 2019 24 Jul 2019 6 £150
10 13 May 2019 24 Jul 2019 6 £150
 
Mrs B says that she took out multiple loans with Sunny and was taking out new loans to 
repay her existing debts. She says the loans caused her financial situation to deteriorate.
Sunny says that before the loans were provided it undertook affordability and 
creditworthiness assessments to ensure the repayment amounts on the loans were 
affordable. 
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint in regard to loans four to ten. He said that by loan four 
Sunny should have been alert to the possibility Mrs B was struggling to manage her money and that by loan six Mrs Bs overall pattern of borrowing suggested she had become 
persistently reliant on short term borrowing.  
Sunny didn't accept our adjudicators view. It provided a counter offer to Mrs B but she didn't 
accept this. As a resolution hasn't been agreed this complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mrs B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.Before Mrs B was provided with the loans, information about her income and expenses was 
gathered. Her monthly declared income at the time of loans one to nine was £1,050 and this 
increased to £1,450 at loan ten. Her monthly expenses ranged from £810 to £976. This 
shows that throughout the time of the loans, Mrs B had limited disposable income.
Our adjudicator said he thought the complaint about loans one to three shouldn't be upheld 
and as neither party seems to be in dispute about this, I have not considered these loans 
further. However, I have taken these loans into account when considering Mrs Bs overall 
lending history with Sunny.
Our adjudicator thought that by loan four, Sunny should have been concerned that Mrs B 
was struggling to manage her money. He noted that she already had three loans outstanding 
with Sunny. He also noted the total amount she needed to repay in regard to the loans. 
I agree with our adjudicator that by loan four Sunny should have been concerned that Mrs B 
was struggling to manage her money. I say this because, at this point, Mrs B had borrowed 
£550 and her monthly repayments had increased to around £175. She had a low disposable 
income and while her expenses aren't recorded for loan four, her disposable income is noted 
as £153.
I understand that Sunny allows up to four loans to be taken out concurrently and I note its 
comments about how its product allows flexibility about the amount borrowed so that 
customers can borrow small amounts and add to this if needed rather than take out a single 
larger loan. However, I also note that had Mrs B taken out a single loan at the outset for 
£550 with repayments of £175 this wouldn't have been affordable as her disposable income 
was enough to cover this. 
So, while I note the comments about the product, as Mrs B increased her total borrowing to 
£550 in just over a month and this amount wouldn't have been affordable at the outset, I find 
that Sunny should have been concerned by loan four that she was taking on debt that she 
couldn't sustainably afford to repay. Because of this, I do not think that loan four should have 
been provided.
Mrs B repaid loans one to four on 6 January 2019 and took out loan five a week later. This 
further suggests that Mrs B was struggling to manage her money and that she was 
likely borrowing again due to the hole left in her finances by the previous repayments. 
Loan six was taken out a few days after loan five and at this point I think Sunny should have 
been concerned that Mrs B was persistently reliant on short term borrowing. She was taking 
out new loans either before existing debt was repaid or shortly after and her level of debt 
wasn't reducing. This pattern of borrowing continued throughout her lending relationship with 
Sunny.
Because of the above, I uphold this complaint in regard to loans four to ten. 
 
 
 
 
Putting things rightrefund Mrs B all interest and charges she paid on loans four to ten;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans four and five from Mrs Bs credit file;
 
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans six to ten should be removed from 
Mrs Bs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman