DRN-1157207
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that a direct debit payment was incorrectly set up and about the difficulties 
hes experienced trying to rectify things.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr H has provided very detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and 
considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main issues.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H has expressed unhappiness with many of PayPals practices, procedures, and 
systems, and how they work online. But we arent a regulator and cannot require it to 
change them. 
Mr H changed the designation of his PayPal account from a business account to a 
personal one. In doing so the associated direct debit from his personal bank account 
became incorrectly registered in the name of his business.
PayPal says this problem isnt something it can rectify as only a user can do so 
online. And it says, and I accept on balance, that its told Mr H that it wasnt 
something it could do and explained a number of times that he should remove 
his bank account details and then add it on as new one with the required and correct 
name and details. It also offered to disable his bank account to make the process 
simpler. 
Whatever caused this problem with the account name, I think PayPal has acted fairly 
by explaining the position and how only Mr H can rectify it. Its unfortunate if he didnt 
follow this advice to solve the problem but thats a matter for him and isnt PayPals 
fault.
Mr H also complains about having to contact PayPal multiple times to try to resolve 
things and complains his contacts with it have been unsatisfactory. But all consumers 
spend some time and experience some additional inconvenience in dealing with a 
problem, complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally recommend 
theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart from 
this approach in this case.
I recognise that Mr H has strong views on what he says he was told and about 
PayPals failings. And that he has found the process of engaging with it extremely 
frustrating and repetitive. But taking everything into account I think PayPal has acted 
fairly. And I dont think I can reasonably require PayPal to do anything more or 
differently, including paying any compensation as Mr H would like. 
For these reasons, although I recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman