DRN-3432821
The complaint
Mr A, as a director of T, complains about the decision of QIC Europe Ltd to decline Ts 
business interruption insurance claim for losses relating to the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
T operates as a public house offering guest accommodation. It held an industry specific 
commercial insurance policy underwritten by QIC.
T also operates other premises and I understand it has a separate policy with QIC to cover 
those premises. However, the current complaint is about the premises I shall refer to as E. 
T also raised a separate complaint with QIC about the time QIC took to deal with the claim it 
made. However, the current complaint that I am considering is limited to the outcome of that 
claim and how it was communicated. I should also say that the following is intended only as 
a brief summary of the events in question and the arguments raised.
T made its claim following it having to close its premises as a result of the 
government-imposed restrictions introduced to control the spread of COVID-19. Ultimately, 
QIC declined the claim. It said that the core business interruption cover provided by Ts 
policy was related to events of damage and that the pandemic hadnt caused damage as 
required by this part of the policy.
QIC did say that there was an extension to the business interruption section that provided 
cover where a relevant disease had occurred on the premises. But that, whilst COVID-19 
would be considered a relevant disease, and Mr A had provided evidence relating to a 
number of individuals who had stayed at Ts premises had subsequently displayed 
symptoms of COVID-19, QIC was not satisfied such an occurrence had taken place at the 
premises.
Mr A was not happy about this and complained on behalf of T. Mr A was also unhappy that 
in responding to Ts complaint, QIC had sent him a letter, addressing a different individual, 
which had said that Ts claim would be met. QIC apologised for this and sent Mr A a different 
letter that confirmed it would not be meeting Ts claim.
Further arguments have been raised over the course of the claim and complaint about 
whether such an occurrence would have provided cover for the government-imposed 
restrictions, whether the policy term required the occurrence of the disease to be at the 
premises or not, and whether the loss of stock should be covered.
Mr A brought Ts complaint to this service. However, our Investigator was not persuaded that 
Ts complaint should be upheld. He did not think the evidence provided showed that it was 
more likely than not that there had been an occurrence of COVID-19 at Ts premises. 
Mr A remained unsatisfied and Ts complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision on 24 March 2022. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said I was focussing on what I considered to be the key issue, 
which was whether Ts claim should have been met under the terms of the policy.
I did deal briefly with one other aspect though. I explained QIC did send Mr A the wrong 
letter. I thought it was clear this was an error. The letter addressed a person with a different 
name. It also referred to policy wording that Mr A was aware, as he had previously quoted 
Ts actual wording, was not relevant to the policy T had. I didnt think the fact this error was 
made meant Ts claim should be upheld. I thought the claim should be assessed based on 
the policy wording that applies to T.
That said, I explained that I could appreciate that being informed a claim would be met and 
then having this reversed soon after would have been distressing for Mr A. He had also 
referred to the impact the entire situation has had on his health. I sympathised with Mr A, but 
explained that the complainant in this case is T. T is a limited company and as such is a 
legal entity in its own right. I said it is the impact on T, rather than on Mr A  or any other 
individual  that needs to be taken into account. Mr A, as an employee of T, was 
inconvenienced by the error made in sending the wrong letter. But QIC corrected this error 
reasonably quickly and apologised for making it. So, I didnt consider T was itself materially 
impacted by this error to the extent that QIC now needed to do anything differently.
I then moved on to consider the decision to decline the claim. I explained that I understood 
that T closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed restrictions. The 
nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay open after this 
time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption insurance.
I then said there are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market 
covering different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire 
or flood, whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as 
optional add-ons. So, I considered the starting point was to consider the specific policy T 
took out.
I then explained that the standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Ts 
policy, as well as a number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the 
business of the insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciated 
the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I didnt think COVID-19 caused damage 
to property which had led to an interruption of Ts business.
So, I didnt think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provided cover in the circumstances of Ts claim. And I 
thought QIC acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ts claim under this area of cover.
I then said the key clause in this claim is an extension to the business interruption section of 
Ts policy that does not require damage. I referred to this as the disease clause and I 
explained my findings in relation to this.
I set out that Ts policy says:
The Insurers will also pay for interruption to the business as a result of

(d) the occurrence at the Premises of murder, suicide, food or drink poisoning, 
vermin, pests, defective sanitation or any human infections or contagious disease 
(excluding Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition), an outbreak of which the Local or Government Authority has stipulated 
shall be notified to them
I noted it wasnt disputed that COVID-19 is a disease that falls within the definition of this 
clause. Neither was it a point of contention that the Premises are Ts premises at E.
I then noted that Mr A had however said that the disease does not need to occur at the 
premises, saying that the inclusion of the word or between the defective sanitation and 
disease terms means the requirement for the event to be at the premises doesnt apply to 
the latter. However, I was not persuaded by this. I didnt think a reasonable person, with the 
background knowledge of Ts directors, would have interpreted the wording in this way at the 
time the policy was entered. The clause lists a number of different events, some of which are 
more similar to others. But I thought it was clear that the requirement that the occurrence of 
the relevant event be at the premises applies to all of them.
I said that Mr A had also raised arguments over the application of the Supreme Court 
judgment in The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] 
UKSC 1 (the FCA test case) to Ts claim. Mr A had effectively argued that if there was an 
occurrence of COVID-19 at Ts premises, this was a cause of the government-imposed 
restrictions. I noted these comments and I agreed with them. I explained it was not though 
necessary for me to expand on this further, as the initial requirement is that it be shown that 
it is more likely than not that there was an occurrence of the disease at Ts premises prior to 
the Governments decision to introduce the restrictions that led to Ts closure of E.
I said it is for a claimant to demonstrate that an insured event has taken place  in this case 
for T to show that it is more likely than not that someone had COVID-19 on its premises prior 
to Es closure. I said Mr A had provided some evidence relating to individuals who had 
apparently stayed at E.
I considered each of these individuals and the evidence that they had sustained COVID-19 
at the time they were staying at E. Firstly though, I outlined some of the timeframes I was 
bearing in mind when thinking about this issue.
I explained that in the FCA test case, the court said that in order for there to have been an 
occurrence of COVID-19, the individual in question needs to have been diagnosable as 
having the disease. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO) a person is 
commonly diagnosable around three days after infection, and this might be around three 
days prior to them displaying symptoms which happens most commonly five to six days after 
infection. I explained that whilst these are only indications of what could be commonly 
expected in relation to a case of COVID-19 in March 2020, they do provide a useful guide 
when thinking about the evidence provided and weighing up whether it is more likely than 
not that COVID-19 occurred at Ts premises.
I noted that an individual I referred to as Mr G apparently stayed at E around 
12 March 2020. He had said he then began to display symptoms of COVID-19 on 21 March. 
He had provided an antibody test result which showed he had COVID-19 at some point prior 
to the test in late April 2020. So, I said he may well have had the disease on 21 March when 
he displayed symptoms. However, this was nine days after having been on the premises. 
Taking into account the time frames above, I didnt think it more likely than not that he had 
sustained the disease at the time he was at E. So, I didnt think this demonstrated an 
occurrence of COVID-19 at the premises.
I then said an individual I referred to as Mr C had said that he stayed at E on 
4 to 5 March 2020. And then first experienced symptoms on 17 March. I said I didnt think the development of symptoms almost two weeks after having been at the premises 
demonstrated there was an occurrence of the disease at those premises.
I noted an individual I referred to as Mr E stayed at the premises from 6 to 8 March 2020. 
He had said that he was unwell from 11 March. I explained that, given the time frames here, 
if Mr E was unwell with COVID-19, it could be that he had sustained the disease at the time 
he was at the premises. However, I said he had described his symptoms only as 
cold / flu-like. Whilst there are some similarities between the symptoms of cold/flu and 
COVID-19, I did not consider there was persuasive evidence that what Mr E had was 
COVID-19 rather than cold or flu. I noted COVID-19 was reasonably prevalent at the time, 
but so were more common illnesses such as cold or flu. So, I didnt think this demonstrated 
Mr E most likely had COVID-19.
I also noted that Mr Es partner  who also apparently stayed at Ts premises over the same 
period  then developed a loss of her sense of taste. Such a symptom is more indicative of 
COVID-19. But I explained that she did not develop this symptom for another two weeks 
after Mr E displayed symptoms of his illness, and only began feeling ill a couple of days prior 
to that. As with the other customers, I think this time period is too long for it to be persuasive 
that she had sustained the disease at the time she was at the premises.
Finally, I explained that I had thought about whether the illness Mr E had was then passed 
onto his partner  which might mean that he did have COVID-19 at the time he was at the 
premises. But I felt the time scale of the events was again not consistent with this being the 
case. I said that, had Mr E had COVID-19 when at the premises and passed it onto his 
partner, it would seem reasonable to expect this to have happened at or around the time he 
was at the premises. I noted it is within the first period of someone having COVID-19 that 
they are more likely to infect someone else. I explained this meant it would be most likely 
that she would have developed symptoms around a week after this.
However, her symptoms didnt manifest until a further week later, meaning I considered it 
was not most likely that Mr E had the disease when at the premises and passed this onto his 
partner leading to her own illness.
In summary, I agreed with QIC and our Investigator that the evidence provided did not 
demonstrate that any of these individuals had COVID-19 whilst at Ts premises.
I confirmed I had thought about Mr As comments that E is located near a particular site that 
saw many visitors and was later identified as a potential mass spreading event. And that I 
had also thought about the prevalence of COVID-19 generally. But I explained this doesnt 
demonstrate that it is more likely than not that any of the individuals who were actually at Ts 
premises had sustained COVID-19 at the time they were there. As such, I didnt consider T 
had shown that an insured event most likely occurred.
I explained that it follows that I did not consider QIC acted inappropriately when declining Ts 
claim under the disease clause. And I confirmed that, having considered the rest of the 
policy carefully, I did not consider there to be any area of cover that means QIC should have 
met Ts claim. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with any further comments or other evidence. 
However, neither party submitted anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about all of the circumstances of this particular complaint, and 
bearing in mind the fact neither party provided any further evidence following my provisional 
decision, I have reached the same decision as I did provisionally, for the reasons set out 
above. 
I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr A, but I hope Ive provided him with a 
thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman