DRN-1456328
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2006 in connection with a credit card. Miss M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold 
her the PPI.
What happened
The PPI had been mis-sold to Miss M during a telephone call. Our adjudicator thought the 
complaint should not be upheld. Miss M disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for 
the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear on its telephone sale script that Miss M didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss 
M.
 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 Ive thought about everything Miss M has said - including what she said about her statutory 
sick pay and redundancy benefits from her employer. But these points dont change my 
decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One (Europe)plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman