DRN-2671303
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Northridge, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Northridge, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I dont think theres a dispute anymore about whether this car was of satisfactory quality. The 
dealership have agreed to take it back and offered to settle the finance agreement and 
return Mr Ss deposit. 
For clarity, having reviewed the issues Mr S complains of, I would agree that this car was not 
of satisfactory quality. Mr S reported problems with the car very early on and Im persuaded 
they were therefore likely to have been present when the car was supplied and when 
Northridge were responsible for the cars quality. As those repairs were unsuccessful the 
appropriate action would be for the business to support the rejection of the car. I note Mr S is 
concerned that his report from a specialist has not been referred to, but I dont think thats 
necessary as theres no longer a dispute the car he was financing was of unsatisfactory 
quality.
  
Putting things right
The business should end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr S.
Theyve already agreed to refund Mr Ss deposit but as Mr S has been deprived of that 
money they should also add interest to that refund.
When a car is rejected we would usually tell the business to refund the finance instalments 
and tell them to retain a proportion, or all of the instalments, in respect of the use the 
consumer has had from the car. Here Mr S had driven about 11,000 miles which is more 
than average mileage. So, I think he had fair use of the car up until the point it failed and was 
taken to the dealership. The business kept him mobile in a courtesy car until 17 November 
2020 but, thereafter, its not fair that Mr S has been paying his finance instalments for a car 
he hasnt been able to use. So, Northridge should refund any finance instalments hes paid 
since 17 November 2020 and add interest to that refund as Mr S has been deprived of the 
money.
For clarity, whilst I accept that the business should be allowed to retain all monthly 
instalments (prior to the breakdown) in respect of loss of use, I dont accept Northridges 
suggestion that they should be entitled to make a deduction on a pence per mile basis. 
There was no mileage limit set in the agreement and the approach I have taken above is this 
services usual methodology for calculating fair usage deductions.
But Mr S has certainly been inconvenienced. Ive read his most recent email to this service 
where he explains the courtesy car wasnt of the same standard as the car he was financing. 
He also explained the distress hes experienced and his difficulty getting a new finance 
agreement whilst this one was still in place. Hes had to take his car back to the garage for 
repairs and has had to collate evidence of the fault when the dealership couldnt identify it. 
Hes also had to escalate his complaint to our service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. In those circumstances Northridge should compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience caused and I would agree with the investigators suggestion that £250 is 
fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell N.I.I.B. Group Limited to:
allow Mr S to reject the car and end his finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
return any finance instalments Mr S has paid since 17 November 2020 because he 
hasnt been able to use the car and has not been kept mobile. Add 8% simple 
interest per year to this refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman