DRN-4087029
The complaint
Mr M complains Wakam have unfairly declined his Buildings Insurance claim.
All references to Wakam also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 5 April 2023. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not intend to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will likely be
disappointed with my intended decision, but Ill explain why.
The policy says it doesnt provide Accidental Damage cover for the first 30 days from
its inception.
This isnt an unusual term and can be found in other insurance policies. However, the
term is significant, and I would reasonably expect this be clearly highlighted to Mr M
when he took the policy out online.
Ive looked at screenshots of what Mr M would have seen when taking out the policy.
Before submitting the application, Mr M was asked to confirm he had read the
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) by ticking a box.
Next to the box, it details its important to review the IPID as it sets out what is and
isnt covered. This includes a link directly to the document, which is two pages long.
This document sets out on the second page that Accidental Damage cover is not
provided for the first 30 days. I think this is set out clearly and isnt hard to find. It also
details further down the page that Accidental Damage is not provided for the first
calendar month.
I acknowledge Mr Ms comment that he paid for a 12-month policy. But the exclusion
is specific to the Accidental Damage section of the policy, not the policy as a whole.
So other elements of the cover would have still been in place.
So, in summary I think the exclusion was sufficiently highlighted in the policy
documentation. And therefore, I do not intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Wakam havent provided any response to my provisional findings.
Mr M didnt agree with my provisional findings. He said I wasnt looking at what had been 
advertised on a third-party website when he took out the policy. He said the IPID wasnt 
listed on the website when he took the policy and reiterated the policy was sold as a 12-
month policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr M has said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
The screen shots provided to me are of the journey Mr M wouldve taken online when he 
bought the policy - from the website of the broker of the policy. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that persuades me this isnt what Mr M wouldve seen when he took the policy out.
Mr M says the policy was sold to him as a 12-month policy. But this doesnt mean there 
wont be conditions or exclusions that apply to the cover taken.  All policies contain 
conditions and exclusions. This isnt unusual. But what insurers are obligated to do is to 
make significant exclusions clear when the policy is taken out  and for the reasons set out, I 
think it was made clear.
Wakam also provided a screen shot of the accidental damage section as it wouldve 
appeared online when Mr M took the policy. I can see under the Accidental Damage section 
it also highlights under a drop down there is a waiting period of a month before a claim can 
be made. On its own, I wouldnt say this makes it significantly clear as there are several 
steps needed to access this information. However before completing the application Mr M 
was asked to confirm that he had read the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
by ticking a box. And I do think this makes it significantly clear.
It set out it was important to review the IPID as it contains what is and
isnt covered and it included two links in the same section directly to the document. 
The document is two pages long and sets out in two separate locations on the second page 
that Accidental Damage cover is not provided for the first 30 days. So, I dont think the 
information was hard to find and was set out clearly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman