DRN-3038482
The complaint
Mr M complains that he has been unable to access his policy documents due to an 
administrative error made by UK Insurance Limited (UKI).
What happened
Mr M took out a landlords insurance policy, for a property he owned, in March 2021. He also 
held another policy with UKI at the time.
During a phone call with UKI, Mr M attempted to update his email address from an old one 
which UKI had on its system, but UKIs representative made a mistake in inputting the new 
email address, which led to an incorrect and invalid email address being placed on its 
system.
As a result, Mr M says he was unable to access his account to view his policy documents. 
UKI said the way its systems work mean its unable to register the same email address 
against both policies, but Mr M says he was not given the option of registering a new email 
address, which wouldve allowed him to access his account. 
Unhappy with UKIs response to his complaint, Mr M referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator considered what both parties said, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said it wasnt possible for this service to change the way a businesss systems 
work and that UKI had offered alternative solutions which Mr M has declined.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to a recording of the 23 June 2021 phone call. During this call, UKI confirmed 
the email address it had on file. Mr M then told UKI that this was an old email address and 
that hed like this updated. The agent then said he would add Mr Ms current email address 
to the profile and Mr M would receive a password reset email which would allow him to 
access his account and view his policy documents.
At this point, I think the agent shouldve told Mr M that he couldnt use the same email 
address for both policies. But Mr M wasnt advised of this during the call. So Im satisfied UKI 
made an error here and also made an error in inputting Mr Ms current email address 
incorrectly. However, I have to consider the impact of that error in deciding whether there is 
any more UKI should do. 
Mr M tried to access his account and policy documents after speaking to UKI on 23 June 
2021. He couldnt do so, and called UKI back on 28 June 2021 to advise them of this and to 
request that documents were sent out to him. 
But I dont agree that Mr M has been left without policy documents, as I can see from UKIs 
contact notes that policy documents were sent to Mr M at the inception of the policy  on 7 
March 2021. So while I accept there was some minor inconvenience over a few days, I dont 
consider UKIs error to have had an impact significant enough to warrant compensation.
In addition, I can see that UKI correctly told Mr M on 28 June 2021, only a few days after the 
first phone call, that he was unable to use the same email address for both profiles. UKI has 
also confirmed that Mr M is able to register any other email address (not already in use with 
UKI) in order to access the policy documents. And when Mr M told UKI he didnt wish for the 
old policy to auto-renew, he was also given the option to move his current email address rom 
the old policy to the newer policy, which he declined.
So whilst I accept that UKI made an error, and as this service cannot tell a business to 
change its internal processes or systems, I think UKI has already offered ways to put things 
right in line with what wed expect. 
Mr M has said he hasnt received hard copy documents, but as his policy was taken out 
online, I think its likely the documents were sent to his old email address  which is an 
address he chose to add to his profile when taking out the policy. So Im unable to say UKI 
has left Mr M without documents, especially as Mr M has now been offered options which 
would resolve the issues complained about.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman