DRN-3555242
The complaint
Miss W complains about a declined claim on her pet insurance with Allianz Insurance Plc 
trading as Petplan (Allianz) for the cost of veterinary treatment for her dog. 
Although the policy isnt branded in Allianzs name, it provides the cover and as such it is 
responsible for claims issues. So as Allianz is responsible for replying to the complaint, I will 
only refer to it within this decision.
Miss W is being represented by her father. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all submissions in 
the complaint as if they were made by Miss W.
What happened
Miss W insured her dog, who Ill refer to as H, with Allianz. Miss W firstly had a free policy 
for a month that was offered to her when she booked H into a vet to have an immunisation 
jab. Miss W then went on to take out a 12-month policy. It was within the 12-month policy 
that Miss W submitted a claim for tests on H.  
This claim was declined by Allianz and it said the tests were in relation to an illness identified 
before the policy started. Allianz said that Miss Ws policy didnt cover H for what it describes 
as pre-existing medical conditions. 
During the period of free cover, H was checked over by a vet and it was noted that H had a 
heart murmur. The vet suggested further tests were carried out to establish if it was a 
congenital cardiac condition or an innocent puppy cardiac murmur. These tests were 
completed within the 12-month policy. 
As Allianz declined the claim, Miss W brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Our investigator found H was 
showing signs of an illness before the policy started and Miss Ws policy for H excluded any 
pre-existing conditions.
Miss W came back with several additional points for the investigator to consider but he 
wasnt persuaded to change his view. 
Miss W didnt agree with the investigators view. So, the complaints been passed to me to for 
a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss W will be 
disappointed by this, but Ill explain why Ive made this decision. 
My starting point is the certificate of insurance, which includes a heading Exclusions and 
clauses. This says
Your insurance does not cover any illness which starts in the first 14 days of your pets first 
policy year or any pre-existing conditions. If your pet was ill or injured at any time before the 
cover for this pet started, we will not cover any claim relating to that illness or injury. 
Miss Ws pet insurance policy also sets out the terms and conditions. Under a section 
headed, What we will not pay, it says The cost of any treatment for an illness which starts 
in the first 14 days of cover. The Definitions section then provides further detail about what 
is defined as an illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover. This says:
 An illness that:
Showed clinical signs, b) Has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an illness that showed 
clinical signs, c) Is caused by, relates to, or results from, a clinical sign that was noticed, or 
an illness that, showed clinical signs, In the first 14 days of: Your pets first policy year
A claim was received on 26 June 2018 which is after the cover started, but the possible 
heart murmur was identified on 24 April 2018. So, by that definition although it wasnt 
confirmed at that point, it was identified and later to be found to be a heart disorder. So, it 
was pre-existing when the policy started. 
When Miss W took out the policy, she was asked 3 questions. One of those questions asked 
whether H had shown any signs of illness. A second question asked if H had seen a vet for 
any reason. Both of these questions were answered no by Miss W. 
Ive seen evidence from Allianzs underwriters that had the possible heart murmur been 
declared prior to the cover starting, an exclusion wouldve been placed on the policy that 
excluded any treatment or diagnosis in relation to the possible condition. This was in fact the 
same exclusion Allianz placed on the policy once they were notified of the condition by the 
claim. 
Although Miss W has said that Allianz shouldve been aware of the possible condition before 
cover started, I havent seen any information to show me it wouldve been. Had it been 
aware, I wouldve expected it to apply the same exclusion it did once it was made aware of 
the possible condition from the claim. So, the claim still wouldnt have been successful had it 
known earlier.
I understand Miss W has also raised the point that the policy she has, Allianz advertise as 
covering heart conditions. I understand the point Miss W is making here and have thought 
about it carefully. But Allianz has explained that heart conditions are covered if they are first 
found within the period of cover, which Im satisfied is not the case here. 
Miss W has said that the murmur was only diagnosed on 30 July 2018, so the costs of the 
diagnosis should be covered as it was within the policy term. Having considered this point, I 
dont agree. The fact a heart murmur was picked up by the vets on 25 April 2018 satisfies 
me that H was showing signs of an illness. So, the illness clearly started prior to the cover 
starting. The policy booklet provided with Miss Ws cover defines pre-existing as 
Any injury or illness that happened or first showed clinical signs before a) your pets cover 
started or b) the section was added to your insurance.
H was clearly showing signs of an illness before the cover started. This is evident by the vets 
notes and the advice to get further tests completed. The policy goes on to say 
Your policy will never cover any injury that happened or any illness that showed clinical 
signs, before your cover started. This is regardless of whether: You knew at the time of 
taking cover that you would need to make a claim for the clinical sign, injury or illness.
This once again confirms that signs of an illness are not covered as well as confirmed 
illnesses. 
In summary and having taken all of the information into consideration, I dont find Allianz 
have acted unfairly or against the terms of the insurance policy when it has declined the 
claim for Hs treatment. And it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman