DRN-1983706
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in January 
1997. 
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them the PPI 
alongside their mortgage. The mortgage was taken out in Mr and Mrs Ls joint names, but 
the PPI was taken out in Mrs Ls name only. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
When this complaint was first made Mr and Mrs L said they werent aware the policy was 
optional. On the other hand, Halifax said it wouldve presented the PPI as optional and 
wouldve obtained Mrs Ls consent before adding the policy to their mortgage. There is 
limited evidence available from the time this policy was sold, so its hard for me to know 
exactly what happened. But Mr and Mrs L responded to the initial assessment stating that 
Halifax told them they should take the policy out as it wouldve been useful for them. But 
thats different from saying they have to take it out. Mr and Mrs L have not disputed the 
finding the adjudicator made on the optionality of the policy, and they havent provided any 
other evidence to support what they originally said about not being given a choice. 
So, without any evidence to support this earlier statement, its difficult for me to conclude that 
something untoward happened. Therefore, I think its more likely than not that the PPI was 
presented as optional, and not a compulsory product, and they chose to take it out in Mrs Ls 
name only. 
Halifax says it advised Mr and Mrs L to take out the PPI, and Mr and Mrs L feel strongly that 
Halifax advised them that the policy was right for them. This means Halifax had a duty to 
take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was right for Mrs L (as the insured party) and 
wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs L. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, I think that the PPI was 
suitable for her. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and - considering she was the only party to the mortgage who was employed at 
the time, I think they had a need for this cover.
Ive thought about the fact that Mrs L had sick pay at the time of six months full pay, followed 
by six months half pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out for longer than her full sick pay 
wouldve lasted and in addition to this. And as weve said before, it looks like the other 
policies they had in place wouldve covered them for different eventualities than the PPI.  Mr 
and Mrs L have also not given us any details of how they wouldve been able to maintain 
their mortgage repayments had Mrs L been made redundant. As I said above, Mrs L was the 
only party employed at the time, so I think Mr and Mrs L were heavily reliant on Mrs Ls 
income, and I think the policy wouldve been helpful for them had Mrs L not been able to 
work.  
I have thought about what Mr L has said about the policy not being useful for him as he was 
medically retired at the time and informed Halifax about this. But the PPI was taken out to 
cover Mrs L only, so it was only Mrs Ls income which was protected. I think its likely Halifax 
recommended they take the policy out in Mrs Ls name only as Mr L wasnt eligible for the 
PPI and it wouldnt have been useful for him. So, from what Ive seen I think Halifaxs 
recommendation was suitable. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it wouldve been useful for them if something went wrong. 
And for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for Mrs L, I dont think better 
information about the policy wouldve put them off taking out the cover.
In their response the initial assessment Mr and Mrs L have mentioned other PPI policies that 
they believe were sold by Halifax and other businesses. But my decision focuses solely on 
the PPI sold with their mortgage in 1997, and I cant look at any complaints about the mis-
selling of other PPI policies in this decision. So, Mr and Mrs L will need to raise separate 
complaints about these policies, if they havent already done so. 
I wanted to reassure Mr and Mrs L that I have read and considered all the information they 
supplied in support of their complaint, but unfortunately, I still dont think this complaint 
should be upheld. I understand Halifax got a high level of commission from the PPI 
premiums and it didnt tell Mr and Mrs L about that. So, theyve refunded any commission 
that was more than half the cost of their PPI policy. I wont be asking them to do anything 
further, but if Mr and Mrs L did not receive the commission refund cheque, they should 
contact Halifax to reissue them another one. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman