DRN-3044784
The complaint
Ms F complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
For the year from August 2020, Ms F had her van insured on a policy with Admiral.
Ms F and her neighbour werent on good terms. In November 2020, the neighbour 
complained that Ms Fs van had hit and damaged their parked car. Ms F disputed that. But 
Admiral settled the third partys claim against Ms F and recorded it as a fault claim against 
her.
Ms F complained to Admiral about its handling of the claim. By a final response dated June 
2021, Admiral didnt uphold her complaint that it had settled the claim. But Admiral did 
uphold her complaint about its service and communication, for which it said it was sending 
Ms F a cheque for £100.00. Unhappy with that, she brought her complaint to us in early 
August 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Admiral had dealt with the claim in line with the terms of the policy. She said that Admiral 
recognised that it shouldve provided better service, but £100.00 compensation was fair in 
the light of the trouble and upset caused. 
Ms F disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that the height of her bumper doesnt match the height of 
the damage to the third partys vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most motor policies, Admirals entitled it to decide whether to defend or settle a third 
partys claim. Its policy term was as follows:
Defending or settling a claim
We are entitled to:
oconduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your 
behalf
The effect of that term was that  on the subject of the third partys claim -  Admirals view 
would prevail over Ms Fs. I will consider whether Admiral applied that term fairly. Unlike a 
court, we dont hear evidence from witnesses to decide the extent to which each driver was 
responsible for causing damage.
Admiral received a claim from the neighbour for damage to the rear of the parked car. 
Admiral took into account Ms Fs report of what happened. And at first it supported her 
position. Admiral instructed an engineer. In December 2020 he inspected Ms Fs vehicle.
The engineer noted damage on the offside of her rear bumper at a height of about 40 to 48 
cm. The engineer also looked at photographic evidence of the neighbours vehicle and noted 
damage on the nearside of the rear bumper. The engineer concluded that the damage on 
Ms Fs bumper wasnt consistent with the damage to the neighbours vehicle.
So in early January, a claims-handler led Ms F to believe Admiral would continue to defend 
the third partys claim.
But in mid- January 2021, the engineer reviewed CCTV of the incident. He said that Ms Fs 
vehicle did make contact with the neighbours vehicle. The engineer said it was the nearside 
of Ms Fs rear bumper (not the offside of Ms Fs rear bumper) that had hit the neighbours 
car. The engineer concluded that the impact had resulted in the damage that was being 
claimed by the neighbour.
Ive reviewed the CCTV. I consider that it was reasonable for Admiral to conclude that Ms F 
had caused the damage that her neighbour claimed.
So I dont consider that Admiral applied its policy term unfairly when it decided to settle the 
neighbours claim rather than to incur the risk and cost of defending a claim in court 
proceedings.
And I dont consider that Admiral treated Ms F unfairly by recording the incident as a fault 
claim against her.
Ive noted some delays and other shortcomings in Admirals communication with Ms F. I 
dont doubt that these caused her some extra distress and inconvenience at an already 
difficult time for her. 
But Admirals final response offered an apology and £100.00 compensation. And that 
amount is in line with what I wouldve found fair and reasonable if Admiral hadnt made that 
offer. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to do any more in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman