DRN-3311717
The complaint
Ms B complains that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd declined her pet insurance claim. My 
references to Building Block includes its agents.
What happened
Ms B has pet insurance for her dog, the insurer is Building Block.
In April 2021 Ms Bs dog was struck by a vehicle. At the time Ms B had been grooming a 
horse at stables of a private house where she worked. Her dog wasnt on a lead and he had 
access to the garden. He was struck by a car driven by the owner of the house on the 
driveway through the garden. Ms B claimed £4,000 for her dogs vet treatment, the policy 
limit for vet fees. The total vet fees were much more.
Building Block declined the claim. It said Ms Bs dog wasnt under control as he wasnt on a 
lead and was out of her sight at the time of the accident so there was no cover under the 
policy terms.
Ms B complained to us. She said:
Building Block had refused to confirm whether her dog had to be on a lead at all 
times so she queried how she could decide when he should be on a lead.
The policy doesnt define out of control and Building Block had been unfair to say 
her dog was out of control. Shed reasonably thought the environment of the private 
house and garden was safe for her dog. It was a private estate with restricted 
access, there were many dogs and cats around running free and everyone looked 
out for them. There had never been a similar accident on the estate.
Our investigator said Building Block had unfairly declined the claim and should pay the full 
claim plus interest.
Building Block disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
I made a provisional decision to explain what I thought was a fair and reasonable outcome to 
the complaint. I said:
Building Block referred to the following policy terms:
General conditions
The following conditions apply to the whole of this Policy. Any other claims conditions 
and procedures are shown in the section to which they apply
4. You must also provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take 
all reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, injury or damage, as well as 
arranging and paying for Treatment for Your pet as recommended by Your Vet to 
reduce the likelihood of Illness or Accidental Injury.
6. You must ensure that Your dog is under control at all times, and due care should 
be maintained to prevent Your dog from escaping and causing Accidental Injury to 
Your dog or any other persons or animals.
Theres no requirement in the two policy terms Building Block referred to for a dog to be on 
its lead. Policy term 5 under the General Conditions says You must comply with all laws that 
relate specifically to Your pet - such as - Section 27 of the Road Traffic Act 1988, which 
states that a dog that is on a designated road must be on a collar and lead and under 
control. But Ive seen no evidence that the driveway was a designated road and as the 
driveway was in private grounds I think thats highly unlikely. Building Block hasnt relied on 
this policy term to decline the claim and I dont consider this term applies to the 
circumstances of this case.
In the policy terms Building Block has relied on, policy term 4 says Ms B must provide 
proper care and attention and reasonable precautions must be taken to prevent accidents.
Policy term 6 says Ms B must ensure that her dogs always under control and due care must 
be taken to prevent escape and causing an accidental injury.
Proper care and attention, reasonable precautions and under control arent defined by the 
policy. In effect these terms require Ms B to take reasonable care of her dog to prevent 
accidents, Building Block doesnt think she did so.
If an insurer turns down a claim because the consumer failed to take reasonable care, there 
needs to be evidence to show the consumer acted in a way that amounted to recklessness. 
The test of recklessness we use is the one set out in the leading legal case on reasonable 
care  Sofi v Prudential Assurance (1993) 2 Lloyds Rep.559. In summary, a consumer 
failed to take reasonable care if they recognised a risk but took it anyway by taking 
measures which they knew were inadequate or taking no measures at all.
Ms B says she used her reasonable judgement to decide her dog was in a safe environment 
and she didnt consider there was risk of accident.
I think that was fair conclusion for Ms B to make. She was at her place of work in the stables 
of a private house, somewhere she knew very well and where she had taken her dog many 
times so he also knew the location. She says there was restricted access to the estate, 
which Ive no reason to doubt, so it wasnt a busy location with unrestricted public vehicle 
access. There were many animals not tethered in the grounds, Ms B says everyone looked 
out for them and there had been no similar accidents.
Ive listened to the call Building Block made to the owner of the house who was driving the 
car who struck Ms Bs dog. He said he was driving his car a short distance a little faster than 
usual due to being late. From what the owner said I dont think that was a usual occurrence.
Unfortunately there was an accident with Ms Bs dog. But in the circumstances of this case 
I dont think Building Block reasonably said the accident occurred because Ms B hadnt 
taken reasonable precautions for her dog or that he wasnt under control. The dog being off 
his lead doesnt mean he was out of control.
For the above reasons I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Building Block to pay 
the claim, and if Ms Bs already paid the vet it should add interest as Ive detailed below.Building Block told us if it had paid the claim it would have deducted the £90 excess from the 
£4,000 claim, so it would have paid £3,910. Our investigator said Building Block needed to 
pay the full value of the claim. The vet invoice shows the full vet costs were about £15,000 
so Ms B limited her claim to the £4,000 policy limit.
For the avoidance of doubt, Building Block needs to pay Ms B £4,000 for her claim without 
deducting the £90 excess. The policy says the excess isnt insured but I dont think thats 
clear enough that Ms B would never be able to actually receive the maximum policy limit of 
£4,000 under the policy because of how the excess would be applied. And we generally 
dont think its fair and reasonable when the claim is for more than the policy limit (as is really 
the case here) for an insurer to deduct the excess from the policy limit otherwise the 
consumer will never be able to claim up to the limit.
Both Ms B and Building Block responded to my provisional decision saying they had no 
further information to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms B and Building Block have no further information for me to consider Ive no reason to 
change my mind as to what I think is a fair outcome to this complaint. For the reasons Ive 
given in my provisional decision and this decision I uphold this complaint. I dont think 
Building Block fairly declined the claim and it must pay Ms B £4,000, which is the policy limit 
for her vet fees claim, without deducting the £90 excess, plus interest as detailed below. 
Putting things right
Building Block must pay Ms B £4,000 which is the policy limit for her vet fees claim. If Ms Bs 
already paid the vet fees interest must be added as detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to pay Ms B £4,000 which is the policy limit for 
her vet fees claim. If Ms Bs already paid the vet fees interest* must be added at 8% a year 
from the date she paid the fees to the day of settlement.
*If Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman