DRN-2969903
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with 
a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 29 January 2020, Mr and Mrs L purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, 
covering them for holidays taken in Europe. The agreed start date of the policy was the 
same date as it was purchased  29 January 2020. With the end date being a year later, on 
28 January 2021. The policy provided Mr and Mrs L with cover for any trips within this time 
period, for a duration of 35 days. The premium charged for the policy was £488.19 and 
included cover for a total of seven medical conditions.
A couple of months later, on 10 May 2020, Mr and Mrs L emailed Great Lakes in respect of 
their policy. This was following a letter they had posted too.
They noted that because of the coronavirus pandemic  and its impact on travel  they were 
unlikely to be able to travel within the policy year. And so, they requested that Great Lakes 
allow them to move their policy forward, so it could be used when they were able to travel 
again.
Great Lakes said it wasnt able to move the whole policy forward to future dates. It said that 
instead it could cancel Mr and Mrs Ls policy and provide credit from the unused part of the 
policy, so that Mr and Mrs L could purchase a new year of cover, putting the credit towards 
this cost. It also said this new policy would provide 15 months cover, for the price of 12.
Mr and Mrs L didnt feel this was fair. And so raised concerns with Great Lakes about this. At 
this point, they noted they should be provided with a cash refund for the policy, as they said 
they hadnt received any service for the premium they had paid.
Great Lakes looked into Mr and Mrs Ls concerns. It explained that the terms and conditions 
of Mr and Mrs Ls policy explained that no refund would be provided, if a policy was 
cancelled after the 14-day cooling-off period. And that Mr and Mrs L had benefitted from 
cover from 29 January 2020. 
It went on to say it did understand these are uncertain times and said it had been working to 
go above and beyond the terms and conditions of this policy. With this in mind, it said it 
would be willing to offer Mr and Mrs L a pro-rata credit voucher. The value of this was 
£336.78.
Great Lakes said the credit voucher could be used to purchase one of the following options;
A new annual multi trip policy. The policy would be a 15-month policy, for the price of 
a 12 month one, at the current market rates. 
A deferred annual policy. Mr and Mrs L could purchase this 12-month policy, at the 
current market rates. And could then chose to start the cover any time within 12 
months of purchasing the policy. 
A UK only annual multi trip policy, with, subject to terms and conditions, the potential 
to upgrade the destination on the policy at a later date.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think this was fair. They remained of the opinion they should be 
provided with a pro-rata cash refund, instead of a voucher. Because they remained 
dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 29 January 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the policy was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs L with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs L requested cancellation of the 
policy on 10 May 2020, to the original end date of the policy on 28 January 2021. 
Our investigator reviewed the calculation that had been completed by Great Lakes. And after 
discussing this with Great Lakes it was agreed that, instead of the refund being £336.78, it 
should in fact be £352.14.
Mr and Mrs L s response
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with our investigators opinion. They said;
From March 2020 Great Lakes werent providing cover to them at all  as from this 
point there were government restrictions which didnt allow them to travel.
The circumstances were exceptional and should be treated as such.
There was still a large degree of uncertainty around future travel- given the different 
Coronavirus variants and vaccine programs in different countries.
They would accept a voucher, but only in the circumstances that the voucher had a 
two-year deferred period, so it could be used in 2023.
Because Mr and Mrs L remained in disagreement, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I can see that Mr and Mrs L feel very strongly about this matter  and I can appreciate why. 
Id like to reassure them that Ive considered all of the points raised in respect of their 
complaint, including but not limited to the ones mentioned above. However, in providing my 
decision, Ive only referred to those I consider necessary to explain my reasoning on the 
outcome here.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs L.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs L 
ultimately wanted to cancel their insurance policy, and I do note they feel the circumstances 
here should be considered as exceptional, under the policy. But I dont think their reasons for 
cancelling the policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional 
circumstances. 
I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of 
Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to 
cover. The examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to 
bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of £352.14 is now is fair and 
reasonable.Mr and Mrs L were insured from 29 January 2020, when policy started, until they cancelled 
it, on 10 May 2020. And this cover was for any number of trips they took, up to 35 days in 
duration. Whether Mr and Mrs L went on any trips or not, Great Lakes were covering the risk 
of a claim occurring before they contacted it to cancel the cover. And the premiums charged 
to them, reflected this.
I do understand Mr and Mrs L have said Great Lakes werent insuring any risk, from the 
point government restrictions on travel came into place later in March 2020. But the policy 
didnt just provide cover whilst Mr and Mrs L were actually on holiday. The policy would still 
have provided cover for various risks from March 2020, until the policy was cancelled. For 
example, it would have provided cover for cancellation claims in certain circumstances. So, 
Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable that Great Lakes dont provide a refund for this period of 
cover.
Mr and Mrs L cancelled their policy on 10 May 2020. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, 
Mr and Mrs L were no longer travelling, and they hadnt made any claim under their 
insurance policy either. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring any risk under the policy 
from that point. As Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the policy from that 
point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, I do think 
it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs L with a pro-rata refund, from 
10 May 2020, to the date the policy was originally due to end, which was 28 January 2021. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs L feel that the refund should be paid to them in cash, and I have 
taken note of the reasons they feel this should be the way they are refunded. But Im 
satisfied the voucher offered is a fair alternative to a monetary refund here. 
I agree with the investigator that the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered Mr and 
Mrs L arent unreasonably restrictive, as theyve been offered different options. They would 
be able to use it for other trips, whether in the UK or abroad, given the terms and conditions 
of the voucher  including the ability to defer it by 12 months. And the voucher allows Mr and 
Mrs L cover to go on the same holiday at a later date than originally planned.
Im also satisfied the value attached to the vouchers is now fair and I dont think Great Lakes 
has treated Mr and Mrs L differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. 
Great Lakes has calculated the voucher amount from 10 May 2020, which is the date the 
policy was actually cancelled, to the date the policy was due to end, 28 January 2021. This 
means the offer made to Mr and Mrs L is based on 264 days of unused cover. This equates 
to £352.14 of the premium paid. 
Given that the offer reflects the time Mr and Mrs L werent on risk under the policy I dont 
require Great Lakes to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has now 
offered Mr and Mrs L is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman