DRN-3478401
The complaint
Ms T has complained about her motor insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) in respect of 
it accepting a claim against her policy from another driver after she had bumped into the rear 
of their car. She feels Esures engineer lied to her about the damage to her car and that its 
claim decision affected her premium.
What happened
Another driver contacted Esure and said Ms T had gone into the back of them at a 
drive-thru. Ms T said the cars had lightly touched but there hadnt been any impact or any 
damage done to either car. The other insurer sent Esure an invoice dated 1 June 2019 for a 
bumper repair to its drivers car  and photos showing the left-hand end of Ms Ts bumper 
did come into contact with the rear bumper of the other car. Esure felt it wouldnt be able to  
defend any claim against Ms T if it progressed to court. But it explained to her in an email 
dated 27 June 2019 that it had only accepted that the cars had touched and that any 
allegation of damage having been caused would be challenged. However, Esure settled with 
the other insurer for damage to the other car and for personal injuries reportedly sustained 
by the other cars driver and passenger.
Ms T was unhappy about Esure agreeing the cars had collided and complained. She was 
also unhappy that Esures engineer, during a visit to assess whether there was any damage 
to her car, had told her there wasnt any. However, the report the engineer provided to Esure 
suggested there was damage, with photos to support that. Ms T asked to see the evidence 
but Esure didnt provide it. Ms T then became aware that her premium had increased and 
she told Esure she was unhappy about that. Esure said it would look into the matter. But 
ultimately Esure said its decision to settle the other drivers claim was fair and it wouldnt be 
changing its position.
When our investigator considered Ms Ts complaint he felt Esure had come to a reasonable 
decision based on the evidence available to it. When Ms T said she was unhappy with his 
findings the complaint was passed to me for consideration.  
I felt esure had misled Ms T about its intentions to settle the claim. And for that I felt it should 
pay £200 compensation. But I didnt think it had otherwise failed Ms T. My finding were:
the engineer
I understand that Ms T is most upset about the conversation she recalls having with the 
engineer. She says he confirmed he could find no damage to the bumper of her car. But his 
report made to Esure recorded completely different findings. She feels he falsified his report 
and that Esures decision to settle the claim against her due to that report is totally unfair.
I can understand, from Ms Ts point of view, why she is upset. But I wasnt present during 
the conversation with the engineer, and so I cant reasonably conclude he lied to her. I know 
she believes he said there was no damage, but I can see no good reason why he would do 
that and then record damage in his report. And the photos he took do seem to show some 
minor damage/displacement of the front bumper of Ms Ts car. It is possible for two people to 
have a conversation and come away from it with very different views about what was 
discussed and concluded. Im not persuaded the engineer did anything wrong here. 
esures decision to settle
Esure retains the right within the policy to settle claims as it sees fit. But it must do that fairly. 
In short that means that if the prospects for successfully defending a claim are good, Esure 
shouldnt just settle because that is easier. Or if it does the policyholder shouldnt be 
penalised as a result of that decision. But if the prospects for success arent good then wed 
usually find it fair for an insurer to settle a claim on the best terms in order to reduce the risk 
of additional costs being incurred. And good prospects for success means just that  so the 
possibility of maybe being able to be defend it, or maybe being able to find some 
weaknesses in the case presented by the other party, would likely not be enough. 
So an insurer will take many things into account when deciding how to progress a claim by 
either settling or defending it. Photographic and expert evidence will likely be important. But 
also how good a witness the parties are likely to be might also be a factor. Essentially there 
is a lot of detail that an insurer will factor in when deciding how to progress things. And 
having done so, on some occasions they might decide to settle even though this will be 
disappointing for their policyholder. Thats unfortunate, but it isnt unfair.
In this case I see that Esure did take a lot of factors into account when deciding how to 
progress this claim. I think a high-level summary of what it found was that there was a photo 
showing the cars touching, and how and why that had come about would come down to the 
word of Ms T against the other driver. I can see why Esure wasnt confident it had good 
prospects for success in that respect. I can also see though that the cars touching was 
important. I understand that the courts accept that minor injuries to car passengers can be 
caused by impacts even at low speed. So I can see that when medical evidence was 
received supporting the claim that injuries had occurred, and because the cars had touched, 
the prospects for Esure successfully defending Ms T reduced further. I dont think its 
decision to settle the claim was unfair.
However, I do think Esure misled Ms T, as well as failing to keep her properly updated on 
the claim. I think this caused Ms T frustration and concern later on around the time her policy 
renewed.
Esure did tell Ms T that it may have to settle for any injury claim. But then, a couple of weeks 
later, it told her in writing that all it had accepted was that the cars touched. It said it would 
still be looking to defend any damage or injury claim that was presented. However, shortly 
after that Esure, without putting up any further defence, accepted liability for the damage to 
the car and injuries caused and began negotiating settlement for the same. When Ms Ts 
policy renewed, her premium had increased and it was only when she called to investigate 
did she find out about the settlement. I can understand why Ms T was confused and upset 
by this. Whilst she would never have been able to steer or change Esures decision to settle 
the claim, if it had handled things better she wouldnt have been misled and her upset would 
have been avoided. I think Esure should pay Ms T £200 compensation to make up for this. 
premium
I know Ms T is frustrated about her premium increasing. I asked Esure for more detail about 
why this had occurred. Ms T had protected her no claims discount (NCD) so I think she may 
have thought she wouldnt see an increase in her costs. But a protected NCD doesnt mean 
that a claim made against the policy won't affect the premium when it renews. It just means 
that the level of the discount applied because of the NCD won't reduce, which is what would 
usually otherwise happen when the NCD is not protected. And it isnt unusual for the fact of a claim to increase a policy premium. The details Esure 
sent me satisfy me that it did calculate her premium for 2019 fairly. I can see, for example, 
that whilst her total premium went up, a non-reduced discount, because she had protected 
her NCD, was applied. If the non-reduced discount had not been applied then the premium 
overall would have been even higher. But it wasnt only the previous claim that was 
important to Esure, it takes into account a number of factors when deciding what to charge 
for cover. Which is no different to what any other insurer would do. 
All insurers, whilst viewing risk differently, will take into account a number of different factors 
when deciding what premium to charge. What factors each takes into account, and what 
weighting they give to each of the factors they use will vary between them. That means that 
prices for cover from different insurers may also vary. But as long as each of those prices 
are reached because each insurer has applied that same criteria to all their customers that 
present with those relevant risks, that is seen to be fair. Essentially, how much to charge and 
why, are commercial decisions for an insurer to make. Meaning this service wont, for 
example, say it is unfair for an insurer to add to a renewal premium because a claim was 
made the year before. Whether all insurers would charge because of that is another 
question. But here, Esures premium was affected by the previous claim but that was a 
decision for it to make. I think it did that fairly  in that it will charge all of its customers with 
previous claims, in the same way. So it didnt in my view treat Ms T unfairly.  
Ms T maintained that there was no damage to her car and said that this is supported by the 
fact that she didnt claim for damage. And, she said, if Esure could see damage, then surely 
it should have offered to pay for fixing it under the policy. Ms T then reviewed the photos 
taken by Esures engineer, which pointed to damage on her car. She said that wasnt in the 
area where the cars had touched. And there was no damage caused to the other car  she 
certainly hadnt seen photos showing damage to that car. She had taken photos of the other 
car after the incident and they showed no damage  which witnesses at the scene agreed 
with. Ms T said the receipt for work done to the other car must surely be fraudulent, as is the 
injury claim. She had only rolled forwards so there was no way injury could have occurred.
Esure said it disagreed. It denied having misled Ms T. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is always for the policyholder to decide whether or not they wish to make a claim, its not 
for an insurer to assume the policyholder wants to claim. I cant reasonably dispute the 
expert engineers findings of damage, which are supported with photos. And Im satisfied 
that those photos, when compared with the photos showing the cars in contact with each 
other, evidences damage in the area of that contact. 
I know Ms T feels there was no damage caused to the other car. And Ive considered the 
photos she took of the other car in front of her. But those photos were taken whilst she was 
inside her car and the windscreen had moisture droplets on it. I note Esure felt the photos 
werent clear enough to dispute the receipt for work that had been presented by the other 
party. I think that was a reasonable conclusion for it to come to.
I say that especially in light of the fact there were no other grounds that I have seen for 
Esure to have thought the receipt was anything other than genuine. I know Ms T doubts its 
authenticity but for Esure to challenge it, it would have had to have had good reason for 
doing so. And Ms Ts word that witnesses at the scene didnt identify any damage, wouldnt 
have been enough to do that. In light of the evidence of the cars touching and that the engineer found minor damage to Ms Ts car, Im not persuaded Esure could successfully 
have challenged the other party on damage repairs for their car.
I understand why Ms T thinks that just rolling forward until the cars touched, couldnt have 
caused any injury to the occupants of the other car. But she is not an expert on personal 
injury claims. And Esure is aware, as it explained to Ms T previously, that the courts 
generally accept that some injury can be caused even by a small collision.
Esure says it did not mislead Ms T. But I think it gave her to think that it would, at least, 
challenge any injury claim. But it didnt challenge it. It accepted the evidence presented to it 
and settled the matter. I remain of the view it misled her in this respect. It follows that I still 
think it should pay her £200 compensation for upset caused.
Putting things right
I require Esure to pay Ms T £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman