DRN-1864983
The complaint
Miss H complains because Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) hasnt paid a claim under her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss H had a backpacker travel insurance policy, provided by Mapfre. The policy started on 
24 February 2018 and ended on 23 February 2019. 
Unfortunately, one of Miss Hs close relatives died suddenly while she was abroad. Miss H 
paid for flights to return to UK and made a claim under her policy with Mapfre for the costs 
involved. Mapfre said Miss Hs claim wasnt covered under her policy as she had emigrated, 
and she didnt have a pre-booked return flight in place. 
Unhappy, Miss H complained to Mapfre, saying she was backpacking and hadnt emigrated. 
Miss H also said she had recommenced her travels and would have to pay for another return 
flight to the UK at the end of her trip, so she had experienced a financial loss. However, 
Mapfre said the policy was designed to cover flights which the policyholder was unable to 
take and, as Miss H didnt have a return flight booked, there was nothing for it to cover under 
the policy. 
As Miss H remained dissatisfied, she brought her complaint to the attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said he didnt think Miss Hs claim was 
covered under her policy. Miss H didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the sad circumstances surrounding Miss Hs claim, and Id like 
to offer Miss H and her family my sincere condolences for their loss. 
Miss Hs policy provides cover for a return holiday or journey which begins and ends in the 
policyholders home area. 
The curtailment section of Miss Hs policy says Mapfre will pay for the following upon, 
amongst other things, the death of a relative:
Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to 
pay under a contract and which you cannot get backif it is necessary and you 
cannot avoid cancelling or cutting short your trip; and
Reasonable extra travel costs if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cutting short 
your trip.
Miss H isnt claiming for unused travel expenses, she is claiming for additional costs. But 
Miss H didnt have a return flight to the UK booked, so I cant fairly say she incurred any 
extra travel costs when she cut short her trip over and above what she would otherwise 
always have had to spend. Miss H would have to have paid for a return flight to the UK at 
some point. 
I understand Miss H only returned to the UK when she did because of the untimely death of 
a relative. If Miss H had a return flight booked, then the costs she is claiming for may well 
have been covered under her policy as a home visit. However, her policy doesnt cover the 
cost of a return flight to the UK in circumstances where she didnt already have a return flight 
booked. 
Miss H travelled abroad again, so she ended up paying for another return flight to the UK 
when she eventually ended her trip. But it was Miss Hs choice to resume her trip. The costs 
of going back to the original destination after a trip has been cut short arent expenses that 
are covered under Miss Hs policy.  
Ive considered all the arguments Miss H has made. I understand it was incorrect for Mapfre 
to say Miss H had emigrated, and that one of Miss Hs family members was told the claim 
would be covered. However, these arent reasons for which I could fairly ask Mapfre to cover 
a claim which isnt otherwise payable under the terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy. 
I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to be in a position to give a definite claims decision 
over the phone until it has seen all the relevant documentation. Even if I accept that Mapfre 
gave Miss Hs family member incorrect information, I think its likely Miss H would have paid 
to return to the UK anyway given the unfortunate circumstances she was in.  
Im sorry to disappoint Miss H, but the costs she is claiming for simply arent covered under 
her insurance policy. 
I understand Miss H has questioned the value of her policy and she has pointed out that 
backpackers often dont have return flights booked. However, while the policy doesnt 
provide cover for the circumstances of Miss Hs claim, it does provide cover for one-way 
journeys. 
Miss H had the benefit of cover from 24 February 2018 until 24 hours after leaving 
immigration control at the final destination on her trip. Mapfre covered the risk of a 
successful claim being made during this time, so it is entitled to retain the benefit of the 
premiums which Miss H paid for her policy. 
Overall, I dont think Mapfre has been unfair or unreasonable in declining Miss Hs claim and 
I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman