DRN-3700897
Complaint
Mr A says that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) unfairly reported adverse information 
regarding his loan to credit reference agencies. He says that it should refund all interest 
charged on the loan as it hasnt kept to the agreement.
Background
One of our investigators looked into Mr As concerns. He thought that what Sainsburys had 
already done to put things right was fair and reasonable. And so he didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr A took out a loan with Sainsburys for £11,000.00 in March 2017. The loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £258.46. As I understand it, there were no issues with  
Mr As payments until June 2019. And in around June 2019 Mr A had difficulties with his 
direct debit being collected. So from this point onwards he was making manual payments to 
his loan. Although these payments were made two weeks later than the date the direct debit 
was due, no adverse information was recorded on Mr As credit file as Sainsburys allowed 
customers to make payments in this way.
In April 2021, Sainsburys migrated its loan customers onto a new system. This new system 
required Mr A to make any manual payments on the date that the direct debit would have 
been due. In other words, Mr As payments reverted to being due on the 11th of each month 
rather than the 2 weeks or so later that he normally made payment. 
It looks like there was some confusion and Mr A continued making payments in the same 
way he was doing so previously. I know Mr A says he didnt receive Sainsburys letters about 
once again setting up a direct debit. But Ive been provided with copies of the letters. In any 
event, what compounded matters was that Sainsburys informed Mr A that he was making 
overpayments, rather than the late payments he was making and that it was reporting credit 
reference agencies.
Sainsburys has accepted that it provided Mr A with incorrect information from April 2021. 
And it has since removed all of the late payment markers it recorded against Mr A, cleared 
the small balance remaining on Mr As account and offered him £200 in compensation. 
I appreciate that Mr A doesnt think that this is enough and that he should be refunded all of 
the interest he paid on his loan. But I dont think that interest Mr A paid on his loan relates to 
what Sainsburys did wrong. What went wrong here was that Mr A was provided with 
incorrect information and this prevented him from being able to rectify matters before 
adverse credit file information was recorded against him. Sainsburys has addressed this by 
removing all of the adverse information in question and Im satisfied that this addresses this 
matter as the interest Mr A paid was always due and payable.
Mr A would have experienced a degree of distress and inconvenience as a result of what 
went wrong. For example, I know that it must have been concerning for Mr A to learn that 
adverse credit information was being recorded against him. And while I accept that this could 
have resulted in Mr A paying more on any new credit applications, Mr A hasnt provided 
anything to show that he applied for credit during the period concerned or more crucially that 
he had to pay more as a result of the adverse information.       
Overall, Im satisfied that the £200 (plus waiving of the remaining outstanding amount on the 
loan) already offered is an adequate amount of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr A experienced here  although I do appreciate that Mr A doesnt agree 
that this is the case. 
So having considered everything, Im satisfied that what Sainsburys has already done to put 
things right for Mr A is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint and I 
leave it up to him to now decide whether he wishes to accept Sainsburys offer, if he hasnt 
already accepted it. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Sainsburys has already agreed to do 
to put things right for Mr A is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman