DRN-2815765
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R, on behalf of A, a limited company, are unhappy that ERGO Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft (ERGO) has voided and declined a claim made under As commercial 
property insurance policy.
For simplicity, reference to Mrs R includes comments made by Mr R and her representative.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mrs R took out an insurance policy in As name for an unoccupied commercial 
property in January 2019. It was underwritten by ERGO.
The policy renewed with ERGO in January 2020.
Shortly after that, Mrs R made a claim following fire damage to the property.
Whilst the claim was being investigated, Mrs R said there had been a fire at the 
property in July 2019. She considered the damage minor and the cost of repair likely 
to be below the policy excess, so she didnt make a claim. She didnt tell ERGO 
about the fire at the time it happened or prior to renewing the policy. She says she 
put in place additional security measures to reduce the risk of it happening again.
ERGO said:
oa policy condition meant Mrs R should have told it about the fire when it 
happened. If it had known about the fire, cover would have been suspended.
oMrs R ought to have told it about the fire prior to renewing the policy as part of 
making a fair presentation of the risk. If it had known about the fire, cover may 
not have been offered or may have been offered on different terms.
ERGO later said if it had known about the earlier fire, insurance would have been 
declined and no cover would have been offered. It voided the policy (treated it as if it 
never existed) from the January 2020 renewal and returned the premium paid. It 
refused to deal with the claim as it had been made after the renewal.
Mrs R complained. In summary, she considered the policy condition was unclear and 
contradicted a similar condition  which she had met. She also thought shed given a 
clear and correct response to the question she was asked at renewal. ERGO 
maintained it had acted fairly.
Mrs R referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator considered ERGO had 
acted unfairly. He said that even if Mrs R had failed to comply with the condition or 
provide accurate information at renewal, it wasnt enough for ERGO to say it wouldnt 
have offered cover had it known about the earlier fire  it also had to provide 
underwriting evidence to show it would have acted differently. The investigator said 
no evidence had been provided by ERGO, despite numerous opportunities to do so.
The investigator recommended ERGO should reinstate the policy, reconsider the 
claim and pay £450 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
In response, ERGO provided some underwriting information. The investigator wasnt 
persuaded to change his view based on this information. So the complaint has been 
passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERGO has raised two reasons for voiding the policy and refusing to deal with the claim. Ill 
consider each separately.
Policy condition
The policy contains a section called general obligations. It includes a sub-section called 
inspections. Amongst other things it says:
You must ensure that  if unauthorised entry or attempt thereat is detected more than 
twice during the period of this insurance, immediate notice be given to [ERGO]. Otherwise 
damage caused by fire will be excluded.
Mrs R says she met this condition because in the first policy year there was one 
unauthorised entry  in July 2019. ERGO doesnt dispute that. But it says the policy 
schedule contains another condition which Mrs R didnt meet. The conditions section of the 
policy schedule says:
UN8  No smoking condition Cover is suspended if any unauthorised entry is made to the 
property. [ERGO] must be notified immediately of any intrusion(s).
Its accepted there was an unauthorised entry in July 2019. And Mrs R didnt make ERGO 
aware of it immediately. Mrs R has made a number of points about this, including:
The second condition is unworkable because if cover is suspended as soon as there 
is unauthorised entry, ie before damage can take place, the policy effectively 
excludes all damage resulting from unauthorised entry.
The policy is specifically provided and labelled as an unoccupied property policy. The 
first condition, and others relating to regular inspections, recognises this  whilst the 
second one doesnt.
The policy schedule isnt clear that the second condition replaces the first.
I agree with Mrs R the policy schedule cover have been clearer. A condition labelled UN8  
no smoking might not at first glance appear to replace an inspection condition. However, its 
found on the second page of the policy schedule, is one of two conditions set out, and 
beyond the title its clear that ERGO must be notified of any intrusion.
However, its unclear what ERGO would have done had Mrs R notified it of the unauthorised 
entry in July 2019. Whilst the first condition is clear that not notifying ERGO will result in fire cover being excluded, the second condition says cover will be suspended. In my view this 
isnt clear. And ERGO hasnt set out what it means.
The term doesnt mention cancelling or voiding the policy, which I would expect it to if it 
wasnt going to offer any further cover at all. As it effectively replaces the first condition, it 
seems likely to mean fire cover will be suspended. The word suspended gives the 
impression of being temporarily excluded, suggesting cover would be reinstated at some 
point. Mrs R didnt claim for the damage caused in July 2019. So even if cover for fire was 
suspended at that point, Im not persuaded that would have changed anything.
Overall, Im not satisfied this policy condition gives ERGO the right to void the policy and 
refuse the claim.
Renewal
The policy is commercial. That means the relevant law at renewal is the Insurance Act 2015. 
In summary, the Act requires a commercial customer to make a fair presentation of the risk 
to be insured. That includes disclosing everything they know, or ought to know, that would 
influence the judgement of an insurer when deciding whether to insure the risk  and on 
what terms.
Mrs R has described the earlier fire as a minor incident which caused minimal damage, the 
cost of which was well below the excess. Its believed persons unknown entered the property 
and started whats been described as a small campfire. Shes explained that additional 
security measures were added as a result.
Whilst ERGO seems to have accepted what Mrs R says, it considers it should have been 
told about the incident prior to renewal of the policy. I agree. Claims or incidents that could 
have led to claims are likely to be relevant to an insurers judgement about risk. And the 
insurer is entitled to decide how much risk it associates with an incident  and what impact 
that has on its decision to offer renewal.
I understand that prior to the renewal, Mrs R was asked to provide an update on the work 
she was carrying out at the property. She said there were no claims, incidents or concerns 
over the contract works. I agree this is a reasonable response to the specific question 
asked. And it would have been helpful if ERGO wanted to know about any incidents at the 
property  whether related to the work Mrs R was carrying out or not  to have asked a 
broader question. However, the Act doesnt require ERGO to do this and places the onus on 
the commercial customer to volunteer all relevant information. Im not satisfied Mrs R did this 
as she should have told ERGO about the earlier incident. So I think there was a failure to 
make a fair presentation of the risk.
But that doesnt necessarily mean ERGO is entitled to void the policy. The Act includes 
further steps an insurer must take. One of the key points to consider is whether the insurer 
would have acted differently had a fair presentation of the risk been made. If not, then the 
Act doesnt entitle ERGO to void the policy. So Ive considered the evidence provided by 
ERGO about this.
ERGO initially said if it had known about the earlier fire, cover may not have been offered  
or may have been offered on different terms. It later said it wouldnt have offered cover.
ERGO provided us with evidence of its underwriting criteria. I wont quote it here because its 
commercially sensitive. In summary, ERGOs underwriters would have considered the 
renewal in more detail if there had been a previous fire claim. ERGO has commented on 
what its underwriters would likely have done had it known about the earlier fire. However, its not clear from the underwriting evidence that any fire incident would prompt a 
referral to underwriters  the evidence shows that would only happen where a claim had 
been made. Its accepted no claim was made by Mrs R. So Im not persuaded there would 
have been a referral to underwriters even if Mrs R had mentioned the fire. ERGO hasnt 
pointed to any other part of its underwriting criteria that it considers may have been relevant. 
And my understanding of the criteria its provided is that a low value loss, such as the one 
from July 2019, wouldnt have made a difference to the terms offered.
Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded ERGO would have acted differently had it 
known about the earlier fire and followed its own underwriting criteria. Under the Insurance 
Act 2015, that means its not entitled to void the policy  or alter the terms of the policy. 
Because of this, Im not satisfied it acted fairly when it voided the policy and refused to deal 
with the claim.
To put things right, ERGO should now reinstate the policy and consider the claim, subject to 
the terms and conditions of the policy. It should also remove any record of the voidance it 
may have placed on any internal or external databases.
Im satisfied that voiding the policy and refusing to deal with the claim has caused Mrs R 
inconvenience. Whilst A is a limited company, its effectively just Mr and Mrs R. I understand 
they were in the process of renovating the property at the time of the fire claim. And the 
damage to their property was substantial, potentially putting the renovation at risk if the claim 
wasnt settled. With the uncertainty about the outcome of the claim, Mrs R said they had to 
make arrangements with their finance company to restructure the loan that was supporting 
the renovation. I consider they were likely caused additional time and effort in running their 
company as a result of ERGO voiding the policy and declining the claim.
Im satisfied the £450 compensation suggested by the investigator is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft to:
Reinstate the policy
Consider the claim, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy
Remove any record of the voidance from any internal or external databases 
Pay £450 for compensation
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman