DRN-1825700
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly when 
lending to him. 
What happened 
Between September 2018 and July 2019 Lending Stream provided Mr C with 
fourteen instalment loans. When they were arranged, all these loans were originally due to 
be repaid by six monthly repayments. 
Heres a table setting out details of the first ten loans:
 
Loan 
Date
Taken 
Date
Repaid  
Instalments 
Amount
BorrowedHighest*
Combined 
Repayment
115/09/2018 21/09/2018 6 £300.00 £110.46
215/10/2018 30/10/2018 6 £170.00 £51.68
314/12/2018 28/12/2018 6 £700.00 £213.58
430/12/2018 14/01/2019 6 £600.00 £200.80
506/01/2019 14/01/2019 6 £500.00 £360.72*
616/02/2019 27/02/2019 6 £550.00 £198.58
720/02/2019 04/04/2019 6 £400.00 £339.54*
805/03/2019 04/04/2019 6 £700.00 £367.97*
915/04/2019 29/04/2019 6 £1,000.00 £302.72
10 19/04/2019 29/04/2019 6 £400.00 £446.58*
*this is the highest total monthly repayment required including where loans overlapMr C feels that Lending Stream failed to carry out effective checks to see if he could afford 
these loans. He says that the lending was unaffordable for him and the loans caused him 
great hardship.  
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Cs complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say that 
loans 1-4 shouldnt have been lent. But he felt that by loan 5, proportionate checks would 
most likely have shown Mr C was having problems managing his money. And by loan 9, he 
said Mr Cs overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant on 
short-term loans. So our adjudicator said Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loan 5, or 
any further loans, and he set out what he thought Lending Stream should do to put things 
right for Mr C. 
Lending Stream hasnt responded to our adjudicators view or to a reminder letter.  Mr C has 
told us hes happy with what the adjudicator said in his view letter and hes anxious for a final 
decision.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Before lending to Mr C, Lending Stream asked him to provide details of his income and to 
tell Lending Stream what he normally spent each month. And Lending Stream also carried 
out some credit checks. 
I agree with the adjudicator that, looking at the information Mr C told Lending Stream about 
his income and outgoings and what Lending Stream had recorded about his financial 
situation, it wasnt wrong for Lending Stream to give him loans 1-4. These loans all looked 
comfortably affordable for Mr C, based on what hed said to Lending Stream about his 
finances. 
It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks it did were enough for 
Lending Stream to agree to lend. As Mr C has said hes happy with the adjudicators 
recommendation in relation to these first four loans, I dont think that I need to say more 
about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Lending Stream to provide loan 5. 
Although the loan looked comfortably affordable on the figures Mr C gave (even on top of 
paying loan 4 at the same time), Lending Stream could see that Mr C had by then 
established a record of taking out new loans soon after early repayment of  a previous loan. 
Lending Stream shouldve realised this suggested he wasnt managing his finances in a well 
planned way and that his borrowing record looked to be at odds with what hed told Lending 
Stream about his financial situation. I think his borrowing history shouldve prompted Lending 
Stream to carry out more thorough checks into his financial situation before agreeing to lend 
further.  
I think at this point Lending Stream shouldve taken steps to verify what Mr C was saying 
about his financial circumstances. Lending Stream hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant 
fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing loan 5. 
Had Lending Stream looked in depth at Mr Cs finances it would likely have seen that he was 
facing serious problems managing his money. I think it wouldve learnt that Mr C had short 
term loans already outstanding with other lenders when he asked Lending Stream for loan 5 
 as well as loan 4 still outstanding with Lending Stream.
So Lending Stream wouldve realised that it was likely Mr C would be using borrowed money 
to repay other short term loans that were due.This means I dont think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to think that it was likely Mr C 
would be able sustainably to repay loan 5  so it shouldnt have provided this loan, or any 
further loans to him. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr C with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think by loan 9 Lending Stream should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point Lending Stream ought to 
have realised:
Mr C was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. When he took out loan 9, this 
meant that Mr C had been paying Lending Stream loans (with only limited gaps in 
between) for 7 months. So I think Lending Stream shouldve realised that this record 
of borrowing indicated ongoing money problems  particularly bearing in mind that 
loan 9 was more than three times the amount hed borrowed when he took out 
loan 1. 
 
Lending Stream ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C was 
borrowing further to cover the hole repaying each previous loan was leaving in his 
finances rather than using the loans for their intended purpose of helping him 
manage a temporary cash flow problem. 
 
I think that Mr C lost out when Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing from loan 9 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
 
the number of loans which Mr C borrowed was likely to have negative implications on 
Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans. 
 
So overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 through to 14. 
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do 
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back before doing what 
I have outlined below. If Lending Stream isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr C having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Lending 
Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step 
"E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr C.
 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Cs credit file for loans 5-8. The overall pattern of 
lending of Mr Cs borrowing by loan 9 means any information recorded about this 
loan, and the loans that followed, is adverse. So all entries about loans 914 should 
be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about loans 5-14. Gain Credit 
LLC (trading as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman