DRN-3245441
The complaint
Ms D and Mr M complain that Allianz Insurance Plc provided a poor service and declined a 
claim for loss of rent in relation to damage caused by subsidence.
What happened
Ms D and Mr M made a claim in 2017 for subsidence damage to a rental property. Allianz 
accepted the claim, but declined to pay for loss of rent on the basis that this was only 
covered by the policy if the property was uninhabitable and if there was a signed tenancy 
agreement in place confirming future occupation. 
Ms D and Mr M complained to Allianz, saying workmanship was poor and several aspects of 
the property were uninhabitable. Allianz said it had taken too long to deal with the claim and 
offered compensation for this. It reiterated that it wouldnt be covering the loss of rent claim, 
and it didnt consider the property uninhabitable.
Because Ms D and Mr M remained unhappy with Allianzs response, they referred their 
complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. She said she felt the compensation offer from Allianz for its 
poor service and delays was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She also said based 
on the available evidence, she didnt think the property was uninhabitable and, because a 
tenancy agreement hadnt been provided, Allianz hadnt declined that part of the claim 
unfairly.
Ms D and Mr M didnt agree with our investigators recommendations and asked for the 
matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz issued its final response in March 2021 together with a final payment in full and final 
settlement of the claim and £1000 compensation for distress and inconvenience. These 
offers were accepted.
Ms D and Mr M then referred the loss of rent claim to this service, so Ive thought about 
whats fair and reasonable in relation to the claim for loss of rent from October 2019 to 
October 2021.
The policy says in order for a loss of rent claim to succeed the property must be damaged to 
a degree where it cannot be lived in. Ms D and Mr M have said the property wasnt safe to 
be let out, as there was water ingress from the ceiling near electrical sockets in the kitchen 
and broken floor tiles in the shower room. Theyve provided photographic evidence which I 
think does show that there was poor workmanship in areas, a broken tile, cracks and damp 
patches among other things. But although I can see that these issues needed rectification 
which wouldve been inconvenient, none of the evidence Ive seen indicates that the property 
couldnt have been lived in while repairs were carried out.
Further, the policy says, in the Loss of Rent section:
We will not pay for Any loss when the Property is untenanted unless at the time of 
the incident giving rise to the damage, there was a signed tenancy agreement to 
confirm future occupation. 
So, even if I agreed that the property couldnt be lived in, Ms D and Mr M wouldve still had 
to provide a signed tenancy agreement, which wouldve had to have been in place when the 
subsidence occurred, confirming future occupation for the period claimed for, in order for the 
above exclusion not to apply. No such tenancy agreement has been provided.
Ive taken into consideration what Ms D has said about this and I appreciate it must be 
frustrating to have lost out on rent, due to the property needing repairs. However, the 
tenancy agreement required under the policy wouldve had to be in place at the time the 
incident giving rise to the damage occurred, confirming future occupation, not an agreement 
which was entered into once the damage was evident  which I can appreciate wouldve 
been difficult. Damage which makes a property unattractive to prospective or existing 
tenants isnt the same as damage which makes a property uninhabitable. And Im satisfied 
from the evidence provided in this case that the property couldve most likely been lived in 
safely.
I think the policy wording is clear in relation to this. And so, because there was no signed 
agreement in place confirming the property would be tenanted during that period, I cant say 
its unfair for Allianz to have declined to pay for loss of rent for that time. Im sorry to 
disappoint Ms D and Mr M, but for the reasons Ive given I wont be requiring Allianz to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman