DRN-3938469
The complaint
Mr O(1) complains on behalf of the estate of Mr O about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) allowing a third party to have access to Mr Os bank account. 
Mr O(1) has been given authority by the Executor of Mr Os estate to raise this complaint on 
behalf of the estate. 
What happened
I think it will help if I firstly set out some of the parties who Ill be referring to in my decision. 
Mr O(1) has brought the complaint and he is an Executor in the estate of his late father  
who Ill refer to as Mr O(2). The complaint relates to a bank account which was held by      
Mr O(1)s late grandfather  who Ill refer to as Mr O. Mr O(2) was named as one of the 
Executors in Mr Os Will. The second Executor named in Mr Os Will has given Mr O(1) 
authority to raise this complaint on behalf of Mr Os estate.  
While dealing with Mr O(2)s estate, Mr O(1) noticed Mr O(2) had been given access to          
Mr Os bank account with RBS during their lifetime. Mr O(1) says, at the time this happened,  
Mr O was suffering from Alzheimer disease and wouldnt have been able to give 
instructions. Mr O(1) also says he became concerned when he noticed the amount of funds 
Mr O(2) had withdrawn from the account. So, he complained to RBS as he felt they didnt 
carry out an appropriate level of due diligence when authorising this. RBS responded and 
explained Mr O completed an application in 2013 granting Mr O(2) third party access to his 
account. RBS said they fulfilled all their responsibilities at the time the application was 
processed. They said both Mr O and Mr O(2) were present at the branch to complete the 
paperwork and if the branch staff who handled this had any concerns, they wouldnt have 
proceeded.   
Our investigator looked into things for the estate of the late Mr O. He thought RBS hadnt 
made any error in granting Mr O(2) access to the account. The estate of the late Mr O 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr O(1) will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
RBS have provided a copy of the document which gave Mr O(2) access to Mr Os account  
this was completed in 2013. This document is titled Add a Third Party to an Account. The 
document contains Mr Os account details and Mr O(2)s personal details. The document 
has also been signed by both Mr O and Mr O(2) as well as a member of staff at the branch. 
This document sets out additional information which must be provided given Mr O(2)s 
circumstances  this includes an Account Sanctioner Checklist as well as copied and 
certified identification and address verification documents. I can see both were completed in 
this case. There is then a separate Third Party Mandate form which has also been signed 
by both Mr O and Mr O(2) as well as a witness. This form explains that, by signing it, an 
account holder gives authority to a third party to operate the account. 
RBS say, given the passage of time, they dont believe it would be feasible to obtain the 
branchs recollection of events. I can see weve asked RBS for a copy of any policy or 
procedures they had at the time relating to granting third party access to an account, but 
they dont have this. They have explained though that the procedure wouldve involved 
completing a form to add a third party to an account  which sets out the account details. 
They explain both parties would need to sign the form. They say they would verify the third 
party in branch and take copies of identification documents. Comparing this to the 
documents RBS have provided, I think RBS did follow this process in 2013. 
I acknowledge Mr O(1)s concern is that Mr O lacked capacity at the material time to give 
valid instructions. Mr O(1) says there is no doubt that anyone speaking with Mr O at the 
material time wouldve been aware of his condition. RBS say they dont have any evidence 
of any concerns having arisen during the branch visit when the documents were signed. 
They say they were never contacted at any point about any health or welfare concerns prior 
to, or after, the appointment of Mr O(2) as a third party to the account. I have carefully 
considered both parties points here and thought about what I believe, based on the balance 
of probabilities, more likely than not has happened here. 
Theres no dispute Mr O and Mr O(2) attended the branch together to complete the 
documents  and the documents were completed during this visit. The documents have 
been signed and witnessed by branch staff so Im satisfied this demonstrates Mr O and      
Mr O(2) were attended by a member of staff who wouldve seen Mr O. I think the Third Party 
Mandate form in particular is important here as that required the staff member to sign as a 
witness  which means it had to have been signed by Mr O in the presence of the staff 
member. So, I believe, its more likely than not, had the member of staff had any concerns 
about Mr Os capacity, then they wouldve raised these at the time. The documents signed 
by Mr O contain various declarations setting out what Mr O is agreeing to when signing the 
documents. So, again, I believe if the staff member had any concerns about Mr O not fully 
understanding the declarations, they wouldve raised this at the time. 
Although its a medical practitioners role to assess capacity, I do agree staff at a bank 
should be vigilant in cases where an individual might be taking advantage of a banks 
customers lack of capacity to gain access to their funds. So, in this case, I wouldve 
expected RBS staff to have taken any action if they felt Mr O lacked capacity. But, while I do 
acknowledge what Mr O(1) says about Mr Os condition and capacity at the material time, I 
need to be satisfied that this was, or ought to have been, clear and evident to RBS during 
the branch visit. As Ive mentioned, the only contemporaneous information I have is the 
documents which were signed during the branch visit. And this shows RBS followed their 
process, both Mr O and Mr O(2) attended the branch and the documents were also signed 
by a staff member  one being in the capacity of a witness. Given that I dont have any 
persuasive evidence which shows that it shouldve been clear and evident to RBS during the 
visit that Mr O lacked capacity, I cant say RBS have been unreasonable here in allowing   
Mr O(2) to have access to the account. 
I think its also important to note that, even after access to the account was set up, and 
during the whole period Mr O(2) had access to the account, I cant see any concerns were 
raised with RBS. I do acknowledge Mr O(1) says he only discovered this issue when he 
started dealing with the estate of Mr O(2), but I have to look at this based on what RBS 
knew, or ought to have known, at the time they set up the third party access and during the 
period Mr O(2) had access to the account. And, I havent seen any evidence which 
persuades me RBS shouldnt have granted access or that they shouldve later restricted or 
denied access.Mr O(1) says RBS also failed to carry out even the most basic due diligence in relation to       
Mr O(2)s credit history. Mr O(1) says Mr O(2) had previously held an account with RBS 
which he didnt manage responsibly. I do understand Mr O(1)s point here but the documents 
signed by Mr O and Mr O(2) dont require RBS to carry out any financial checks on a third 
party being granted access to an account. I acknowledge Mr O(1)s point that this 
information was easily available to RBS, but if the process doesnt require such checks, then 
I cant say RBS have made an error here. I do acknowledge Mr O(1)s points about why 
such checks should be necessary prior to granting access to a third party, but our service 
doesnt have the power to direct a business on what its processes and policies should be.   
I can see Mr O(1) has provided statements from two family members and I wish to reassure   
Mr O(1) Ive been through them carefully. I agree they do support Mr O(1)s point about      
Mr O(2)s financial management as well as Mr Os condition, but in the circumstances of this 
case, for me to decide that RBS have made an error, I would need to establish that RBS 
shouldve identified Mr O lacked capacity during the branch visit and therefore shouldve 
declined his request to grant Mr O(2) access to his account. And, for the reasons Ive 
mentioned above, I cant say the information Ive seen establishes this.   
I understand Mr O(1) feels RBS shouldve monitored the account after granting access to       
Mr O(2) and he also refers to purchases made by Mr O(2). Ive seen the bank statements for 
Mr Os account following the access granted to Mr O(2) and this does show various debits in 
the form of direct transfers, direct debits and point of sale transactions. So, Ive balanced this 
against what the other information shows. Ive already found that I dont believe RBS were 
aware, or ought to have been aware, that Mr O lacked capacity during the branch visit. Ive 
also found that theres no evidence that, either before or after the branch visit, RBS were 
informed there were concerns around Mr Os condition or welfare. So, taking this into 
account, and given that RBS say they had no reason to suspect there were any issues with 
Mr Os capacity to give instructions, I dont think the account activity, by itself, wouldve been 
sufficient for RBS to have restricted Mr O(2)s access to the account. I dont think the bank 
statements alone would suggest Mr O(2) mightve been using the funds for his own benefit 
and without any agreement from Mr O. Instead, at this point, RBS wouldve been aware 
theyd received instructions, and signed authority, to allow Mr O(2) access to the account.  
I understand Mr O(1) will be disappointed, and I fully acknowledge he feels all the 
information he has provided creates a profile of Mr O(2) not managing money responsibly. 
But, Im looking at RBSs actions here in 2013 and the subsequent period during which      
Mr O(2) had access to the account. And, I cant say the information persuades me, on the 
balance of probabilities, that RBS acted unreasonably here. I wish to reassure Mr O(1) Ive 
read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point 
or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman