DRN-3493101
The complaint
Mr L complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited gave him incorrect advice about 
making a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ls car was hit and damaged by a stolen car. Advantage told Mr L that if he made a claim 
on his policy, then his No Claims Discount (NCD) would remain unaffected. Advantage paid 
Mr L a settlement for the loss of his car, but the other driver wasnt identified, and Advantage 
couldnt recover its outlay. So the claim was recorded as a fault and Mr L lost his NCD. 
Advantage paid Mr L £50 compensation for giving him incorrect information. But Mr L was 
unhappy with this and said if he had known this he wouldnt have made a claim.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that it 
was most likely that Mr L would have made a claim if he had been told of the effect on his 
NCD. And so she thought Advantages compensation for its error was fair and reasonable.
Mr L said Advantage had told him that his NCD wouldnt be affected and it should stand by 
this. He said he thought Advantage had inflated the repair costs for his car and the damage 
had been minor. He said that if he had been given the correct information about his NCD 
then he wouldnt have claimed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr L feels frustrated that he has lost his NCD. Hes explained how this 
has affected him financially. And hes asked that I listen to his call with Advantage where he 
was given incorrect information, which I have done. 
In this call, the agent explains that Advantage has identified a registration and an insurer for 
the stolen car. She said Mr Ls car was a total loss and that Mr L wouldnt have to pay his 
£495 policy excess and Advantage would recover its outlay from the other insurer. The 
agent said Mr L could be provided with a courtesy car. She said the other insurer would 
recover its costs if it had identified the uninsured driver. 
Mr L then asked how this would affect his NCD. The agent said his NCD wouldnt be 
affected. She suggested that Mr L protect his NCD in the future. The conversation then 
moved onto the cars valuation and next steps. 
The agent explained that if Mr L decided not to claim, then the incident would be recorded as 
for notification only and his NCD would be unaffected. Mr L said he had previously been 
given incorrect information that his claim would affect his NCD as the other driver was 
uninsured. 
Unfortunately, Mr L had been given incorrect information in this call. This was because 
Advantages Uninsured Drivers Promise wasnt included in his policy. The police hadnt 
identified the other driver, and so Advantage couldnt recover its outlay from the other 
insurer. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Advantage accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Ive firstly looked at the effect the incorrect information had on Mr Ls decision about the 
claim. Mr L said that if he had been told that his NCD would be affected by the claim, then he 
wouldnt have made it. He said his car needed only minor repairs and he would have 
arranged these himself. 
But this wasnt evident in the call I listened to. In the call, Mr L said that whilst his car looked 
repairable, the damage was evident when it was driven. And this was confirmed by 
Advantages engineer who deemed the car to be undriveable. And I can see that the 
engineers estimate of the repair costs compared to its value made the car a total loss. I 
havent seen any further engineering evidence to contradict the engineers estimate of the 
repair costs. So I cant say that these were inaccurate. 
I think that if Mr L had been given the correct information again about his NCD, as he had in 
his previous call with Advantage, then he would still have gone ahead with his claim. From 
what Mr L has told us, the loss of his NCD increased his premium at renewal. But Im 
satisfied that this is outweighed by his likely losses if he hadnt gone ahead with the claim. 
This is because he would have had to repair the car at a greater cost, and he wouldnt have 
received a settlement. So I cant say that the incorrect information affected Mr Ls position. 
In terms of impact, Mr L was pleased and surprised to be told that his NCD would be 
unaffected. So I can understand his disappointment when he was told this was incorrect. 
Advantage paid him £50 for this loss of expectation. I think that was fair and reasonable as 
its in keeping with our published guidance. I dont require Advantage to do anything further.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman