DRN-1281930
The complaint
Mr H says Collingwood Insurance Company Limited provided poor service after he made a 
claim on his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs taxi was written-off after it was badly damaged in an accident. Mr H says he swerved 
to avoid a car entering his lane and his vehicle ended up in a ditch. He said hed accept 
£7,000 for it, but Collingwoods final offer was £6,822. He thought it took too long to deal with 
the claim and didnt agree that Collingwood was entitled not to renew the policy.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint. He checked the national trade guides to 
see if the offer Collingwood had made for the car was reasonable. He thought it was a fair 
offer. He also thought the claim was dealt with within a reasonable time, given that the final 
offer was made within five weeks of the accident. And the investigator thought Collingwood 
had the right to decide whether to offer cover to a consumer, including at renewal. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy, Collingwood was required to offer Mr H the cars market value immediately 
before the accident. We think the fairest way to establish market value usually is to consider 
the valuations set out in the national trade guides. Collingwoods external engineer initially 
thought Mr H should be offered £5,420. That was based on the valuation given in one of the 
trade guides (minus a 20% deduction for the car having been written-off previously). 
We checked the valuations set out in three of the guides. The average sum quoted across 
the three guides for vehicles like Mr Hs was £7,471. The average of the closest two 
valuations was £7,732. But we think its reasonable to deduct 20% if a vehicle has been 
written-off before. Even if it has been fully repaired, that history reduces its appeal and 
therefore its market value. After deducting 20%, the market value for Mr Hs vehicle (based 
on the average of the two highest trade guide valuations) reduced to £6,186.
 
I think Collingwoods initial offer was too low, as it was based on only one of the guides. But 
it increased the offer to £6,822 after checking adverts for similar cars and a review by a team 
manager. I think it acted reasonably in doing so. The sum exceeds the highest possible offer 
based on the trade guides and is very close to the sum Mr H expected. Taking everything 
into account, I dont think Mr H has shown that Collingwoods final offer wasnt fair.
In my opinion, Collingwood didnt take too long to deal with the claim. It had to validate it and 
investigate what had happened. It sent an investigator out to interview Mr H, but he wasnt 
available straight away. The valuation dispute took time to get through. It seems from the file 
that there was a delay in Mr H providing an advert he wanted Collingwood to consider. It 
then searched for other adverts for similar vehicles before making its final offer. I think it was 
reasonable for it to have done all that within five weeks of the accident.  
In my opinion, when the policy was due to end, both Mr H and Collingwood were free to 
decide whether to renew it. Collingwood decided not to enter into a new contract with Mr H, 
but I dont think Mr H has shown that was an unreasonable decision. It had no ongoing 
adverse effect on him (as a cancellation would have done). And I think insurers are entitled 
to make commercial decisions about whether to offer or continue to provide cover.
As I dont think Collingwood acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Hs complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman