DRN-2673287
The complaint
Miss S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim 
she made under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss S made a claim for vet fees under her pet insurance policy with Red 
Sands. Her cat, M had been diagnosed with a possible liver problem. 
Red Sands declined Miss Ss claim. It said the policy only provided cover for 365 days from 
when the condition was first noted by Miss S or her vet. It referred to vets notes from 
January 2019 and said these meant the treatment Miss S was claiming for fell outside of the 
365 day period.
Miss S didnt agree that liver problems had been diagnosed in January 2019, but Red Sands 
stood by its decision to decline her claim. So, Miss S brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ss concerns and thought her complaint should be upheld. 
He didnt think it was reasonable to say Ms liver problems started in January 2019, based 
on the information hed seen. He recommended Red Sands settle the claim and pay Miss S 
compensatory interest for the time shed been deprived of the money.
Miss S said she thought Red Sands should pay her total claim of £275.12 with no excess or 
co-payment taken to compensate her for the trouble and upset shed experienced. Red 
Sands disagreed with our investigators view. It said it was satisfied it had used the correct 
condition onset date as M was displaying the signs/symptoms of the condition during the 
examination in January 2019.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy Miss S had at the time of her claim provided vet fees cover for:
 All reasonable costs for treatment of your pet by a vet due to accident, illness or disease up 
to the maximum benefit limit as specified in your schedule. (Cover is provided for up to 365 
days only from the day the condition is first noted by you or your vet, up to the amount 
specified in your policy limit.)
Red Sands says the first clinical signs of a liver problem were noted by Miss Ss vet in 
January 2019, where theyve noted ALKP is up massively. It says the treatment for this 
condition was administered in February 2020, which was outside of the 365 day cover period 
from the onset of the condition in January 2019.
Miss Ss vet says they didnt diagnose a problem with Ms liver in January 2019. Theyve 
said that M was given a working diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis in January 2019 and the 
changes seen on the bloods were secondary to this condition. Theyve said: on the blood 
results, ALT unlike ALKP is a liver specific enzyme that was normal during (Ms) episode in 
January 2019 but was elevated on 10 February 2020. The vets notes from January 2019 
confirm they suspected pancreatitis at the time. They say: Diagnosis  alkp up massively alt 
fine but lipase elevated which could be pancreatitis
Red Sands has commented that although it appreciated there was a working diagnosis of 
pancreatitis in January 2019, the clinical history confirmed the FPLI test came back normal, 
which indicated there was no pancreatitis. But the vet has commented further that: there is 
no test that is 100% specific or sensitive for diagnosis of pancreatitis in cats and therefore a 
normal FPLI does not rule out a working diagnosis of pancreatitis.
Red Sands says it would only look to cover a condition for up to 365 days from the first 
clinical signs or symptoms, subject to the financial limit. It says it doesnt think its 
unreasonable to take January 2019 as the date of onset because this is when the clinical 
signs for a liver problem were first noted. 
Ive considered what Red Sands has said about this. But Im not persuaded that the vets 
note that the ALKP is up massively is enough to say there was a clinical sign of a liver 
problem in January 2019. The vet has explained that this could have indicated a different 
problem and pancreatitis hadnt been ruled out. So, Im not satisfied that this was a sign of 
the possible liver problem diagnosed over a year later.
 
In any event, I think its fair for the 12 months to start from when Miss S could reasonably 
have made a claim for the liver condition on her policy. This was in February 2020, when the 
treatment for this began. It follows that that I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Red 
Sands to have declined Miss Ss claim. 
I appreciate Miss S feels that she shouldnt have to pay the excess or co-payment, because 
of the delay in settling the claim. Shes also commented that she feels big corporations 
should be held to account when theyve acted unfairly. But its not the role of this service to 
fine or punish a business. Ill be directing Red Sands to pay interest at 8% a year simple to 
compensate her for the delay in settling her claim. And I think this is fair. 
Putting things right
Red Sands should:
Pay Miss Ss claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits and subject to 
any excess and co-payments. If Miss S has made any payment to the vet that Red 
Sands must pay it should add interest at 8% a year simple* to that amount from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement. 
*If Red Sands considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due 
to Miss S, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Miss S a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman