DRN-3329164
The complaint
Miss R complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) irresponsibly granted
her a loan she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
I provided my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
In July 2018, Miss R acquired a used car and financed it through a conditional sale
agreement with Santander. Miss R was required to make 48 monthly repayments of
£286.06, with a final payment of £5,692.45 at the end of the agreement. The total repayable
under the agreement was £19,423.33.
Miss R says that Santander didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had,
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable.
Santander has said they completed relevant affordability checks, including taking into
account information from Credit Reference Agencies and personal information such as
residential status, time at address, occupation, and time in employment. They noted Miss R
had no pay day loans and that she hadnt defaulted on any accounts. She had low credit
card utilisation and low credit commitments and met their in-house scoring system. Miss R
was therefore deemed an appropriate candidate for providing finance to.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Santander ought to
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Miss R.
Santander didnt agree and said Miss R hadnt raised any concerns until a year after the
inception of the agreement and had fronted the finance for her boyfriend. They reviewed
Miss Rs bank statements from around the time of her application and noted that whilst she
did occasionally use her overdraft she wasnt being charged for that and that she was still
able to make monthly payments towards her credit commitments. They said the agreement
may have become unaffordable later for Miss R when her circumstances changed but that
otherwise she was likely to have been able to continue paying for the car. The case has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Miss R was only 19 years old at the time of her credit application. She hadnt had time to
build a credit history and I dont think it was fair for the business to place so much weight
on her credit performance when establishing whether the agreement was affordable for her.
I cant see that Santander considered Miss Rs income or her expenditure. Although it did
complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what Miss Rs regular living expenses
were. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments, and the term of the
agreement, I think it would have been proportionate for Santander to have done so to ensure
it was affordable.
So, I dont think Santander completed proportionate checks.
I think it would have been proportionate for Santander to have asked about Miss Rs income
and verified it in some way. Miss R has explained that theyd recorded the name of her
employer incorrectly. I dont think that would have made much difference here. Ive seen that
Miss R was in a part time job at the time of application. Her income fluctuated and
statements show it was between £450 and £500 per month.
I also think it would also have been proportionate for Santander to have found out more
about Miss Rs committed expenditure, such as her living costs.
The financial commitment from this car finance agreement took up about 60% of Miss Rs
total income and left her with about £163 to £213 per month from which to fund other
motoring and living expenses. Whilst I can see her rent was being funded through a student
loan, I dont think the amount of income left after the finance agreement was taken into
account could be considered sufficient to sustainably fund expenses such as car
maintenance, tax, petrol, food, and other living expenses. I think Santander should also have
taken into account that car insurance would have been significant for a 19-year-old. All told I
think this demonstrates that Miss R didnt have enough disposable income to afford the
additional borrowing. Santander therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Santander say that Miss R fronted the agreement for her boyfriend. But Miss R has
explained that the sales agent had suggested that would be okay and I dont think its fair to
suggest a 19-year-old, with a very limited credit history, would be aware it was a breach of
the agreement. I think it was incumbent on Santanders agents in these antecedent
negotiations to ensure Miss R was aware of these matters and Ive not seen evidence that
they made those enquiries.
Putting things right
As I dont think Santander ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all
the payments Miss R has made, including any deposit. However, Miss R did have use of the
car until it was SORN in November 2019 (16 months), so I think its fair she pays for that 
use. But I dont think monthly payments of about £286 are a fair reflection of what fair usage
would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
The investigator suggested that Santander should waive any excess mileage charges in
respect of this but that there should be no refund of the finance instalments that were paid.
But as the agreement will end in 2022 and the car has been off the road since late 2019, I
dont think its likely there will be any excess mileage charges. So, Im not persuaded the
investigators approach is fair.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement,
Miss Rs likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile would likely have
been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Miss R should pay is £180
for each month she had use of the car. This means Santander can only ask her to repay a
total of £2,880. Anything Miss R has paid in excess of that amount should be treated as anoverpayment.
To settle Miss Rs complaint Santander should do the following:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Miss R has made, less £2,880 for fair usage.
oIf Miss R has paid more than the fair usage figure, Santander should refund
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Miss R has paid less than the fair usage figure, Santander should arrange
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once Santander has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse
information recorded on Miss Rs credit file regarding the agreement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander
must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss R asks for one.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to put
things right in the manner set out above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R didnt have any further information she wanted to add but Santander did. They said 
they thought the credit checks carried out were proportionate and showed no affordability 
issues. They also said that Miss R would have notified them much sooner if the agreement 
was unaffordable. They said Miss R was responsible for deciding whether she believed the 
finance to be affordable, and if she thought it wasnt she wouldnt have applied. Santander 
said that they were unable to discriminate against age as its a protected characteristic under 
the Equality Act and they did not agree that this was a reason to expect Miss R did not 
understand that she was in breach of her contract.
Ive considered what Santander had to say but its not changed my decision. Ive already 
explained why I dont think the checks they performed were proportionate and why I think the 
agreement wasnt affordable, so Ill not repeat that.
I dont think Miss R would have notified Santander earlier. I say that because her friend was 
paying the agreement not her. But Santanders affordability checks needed to consider Miss 
Rs ability to repay sustainably. They could never consider the contribution from Miss Rs 
friend as that wasnt there when Santander were required to establish if the agreement was 
affordable.
Whilst I accept Miss R had some responsibility to ensure she could afford the agreement 
that doesnt negate Santanders responsibility to ensure the agreement was affordable. I 
understand that age wasnt something Santander would take into account but I think its fair 
to suggest they should have considered Miss Rs very limited credit history and inexperience 
with credit before making their lending decision and I think that was a valid reason why Miss 
R wouldnt have realised she was in breach of her contract. Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional information that has led me to change my 
provisional decision. That provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Miss R has made, less £2,880 for fair usage.
oIf Miss R has paid more than the fair usage figure, Santander should refund
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Miss R has paid less than the fair usage figure, Santander should arrange
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once Santander has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse
information recorded on Miss Rs credit file regarding the agreement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander
must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss R asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman