DRN-2808614
The complaint
Mr C complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) incorrectly linked his online 
banking details to another customers so that he could see their account and transfer money 
between his and their account. Hes also unhappy NatWest sent him a loan agreement in the 
name of the other customer instead of his own.
What happened
Mr C had a current account and a loan with NatWest. The monthly repayments for the loan 
were around £457. In July 2020, he says he noticed another customers details showing on 
his online banking for his current account. He raised a complaint about this to NatWest and 
on 24 July 2020, it accepted it made a mistake and paid Mr C £250 as compensation. It said 
the problem was down to human error and would be fixed.
A few days later, Mr C says he noticed the problem hadnt been resolved. So he contacted 
NatWest again. It apologised and said it had re-enrolled him for online banking which should 
fix the issue. To recognise the inconvenience to Mr C, NatWest paid him a further £250 
compensation. And although its told our service Mr Cs data hadnt been breached, it raised 
what had happened with the data protection team.
Mr Cs explained to us he was sent a loan agreement to sign and return but the third partys 
details were included on that too so he was unable to do so. Hes said he let NatWest know 
what had happened but it didnt send him the correct agreement. Hes explained this loan 
was being provided as part of a repayment plan. And because it wasnt provided as agreed, 
he decided to repay the outstanding loan balance in full around October 2020. NatWest has 
given us the contact notes from Mr Cs account which show the agreement he was meant to 
have been sent was for a term extension due to financial difficulties he was having.
NatWest agrees it sent Mr C the loan agreement in the wrong name. But it doesnt think this 
put him in a worse position than he otherwise wouldve been in. Its said it adjusted the 
interest added to his loan throughout 2020 so he wasnt charged any more for the arrears. 
And it says it didnt add any markers to his credit file for the loan either.
Mr C asked our service to look into things. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as 
she thought NatWest had already done enough to put things right. Mr C didnt agree so the 
case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2021. I didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
and NatWest had already done enough to put things right in summary because:
Whilst I accepted having his account linked to another customers wouldve caused Mr C 
inconvenience and worry, I didnt think hed been caused financial loss and NatWest said 
his data wasnt breached. I was also satisfied the issue had been resolved in a 
reasonable time.
I didnt think Mr C had been financially disadvantaged by the error with his loan 
agreement as NatWest had said it had reworked the interest and it didnt add markers to 
his credit file. 
I thought Mr C chose to repay his loan in full before the due date rather than him doing 
so because he had to.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
NatWest said it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr C said he had no further comments 
to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, having looked at the responses Ive received, I see no reason to change my 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman