DRN-4185972
The complaint
Mr M complains that Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo (Quidie) provided him with a loan 
which wasnt affordable because he had a poor credit score and he had a large amount of 
debt. 
What happened
Mr M was granted one loan on 3 January 2023. He borrowed £300 and was due to make 
three monthly repayments of £117.16 with a fourth and final payment due of £119.68. Mr M 
repaid his loan on 29 March 2023. 
Quidie considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loan because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed Mr M should 
be able to afford it. Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said Quidie had 
reasonable grounds to believe Mr M could afford the loan and that it had carried out 
proportionate checks including a credit search. There also wasnt anything else to suggest 
the loan would be unstainable for Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree saying that the loan was lent irresponsibly, and Quidie needed to do more 
to build a detailed picture of his finances such as asking for copy bank statements. Mr M 
said the amount of income going towards repaying other debt and the number of outstanding 
payday loans shows he was reliant on them.  Later, Mr M said he was only able to repay the 
loan by taking out further lending.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidie had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Quidies checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidie should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Ms complaint, and I agree given that there was only one loan.  
Quidie was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint. Having done so, I am satisfied Quidie 
carried out proportionate checks which demonstrated the loan would be affordable for 
Mr M.
Before the loan was approved, Quidie asked Mr M for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £3,800 per month from his full-time employment. Quidie says the income 
figure was checked by using a third-party report which gave it a high level of confidence that 
Mr Ms declared income was accurate. Given this was the first loan, it was reasonable for 
Quidie to have relied on the results of its check and so I dont think it needed to have gone 
further such as by obtaining a copy of Mr Ms wage slip. 
Mr M also declared total monthly outgoings of £1,300 which was broken down as £925 for 
housing, £125 utilities, £75 for food, £25 for transport, £25 on other and £125 on credit 
commitments. 
Quidie then went about checking this information. Firstly, Quidie said it used an affordability 
report provided by a credit reference agency and that report indicated that the amount Mr M 
paid each month for his other credit commitments was more than the £125 he had declared. 
Based on the results of its checks it increased Mr Ms credit commitments to £760 and used 
this in the affordability assessment.  
Secondly, excluding credit commitments and housing costs, Mr M had declared other living 
costs of £250 per month. Quidie says this is much lower than averages provided by the 
Money Advice Service (MAS). Using MAS averages for someone in a similar situation to 
Mr M for example income, age and number of dependents it concluded his living costs 
should be around £1,254 per month and so this is the figure which was used for Quidies 
assessment. 
Overall, Quidie using the MAS average of £1,254 for living costs, plus housing costs of £925 
and the credit commitments of £760 gives total monthly outgoings of £2,939. With an income 
figure of £3,800 this left £861 per month in disposable income to afford the largest 
repayment of around £120. The loan looked affordable. Before the loan was approved Quidie also carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
Quidie carried out a credit search, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what Quidie couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the information it received.
The headline data wouldnt have given Quidie cause for concern, it knew that Mr M didnt 
have any other forms of insolvency and no Count Court Judgements. It also knew that zero 
accounts had become delinquent within the last year and no defaults have been recorded 
within the last three years. 
Having looked at the open accounts including loans and credit cards, I do think the amount 
Quidie calculated for Mr Ms monthly credit commitments appears to have been accurate. 
Just on outstanding loans and a mobile phone contract the payments came to £521. Then 
on top of that Mr M had a number of credit cards that needed servicing. 
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Quidie 
to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr M 
had provided. So, while Mr M has said bank statements ought to have been reviewed, in this 
case, it wouldve been disproportionate for Quidie to have considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for Quidie to have relied on the 
information Mr M gave about his income and expenditure as well as its additional checks it 
carried out to show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was 
committed to making. Finally, there wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr M was having 
financial difficulties or that the loan would be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman