DRN-3977507
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a Barclays Managed Growth 
Fund. He believes the amount invested represented too high a proportion of his capital and 
the investment risk was too high for him. 
Mr F is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In February 2001, acting on Barclays recommendation, Mr F invested £4,000 in a medium 
risk rated Barclays Managed Growth Fund. He made no withdrawals and took no income 
from the fund. When he surrendered his investment in March 2011 he received back 
£4,015.50.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that a medium risk investment had 
been suitable for Mr F and that hed been left with sufficient funds after investing as he 
would have been able to rebuild savings relatively quickly out of surplus cash each month. 
When one of our investigators considered the complaint, he reached the same overall view 
as Barclays. In summary, he said that although there was only limited information now 
available, from what hed seen, he was satisfied that Mr F had been given suitable 
investment advice by Barclays. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. On his behalf, the CMC mainly said:
it hadnt seen any evidence to show Barclays discussed Mr Fs attitude to risk at the 
point of sale 
a tick in a tick box stating that he was a medium risk investor was made by the 
advisor
Mr F had very limited resources to re-coup any investment losses 
although hed held the investment for 10 years this did not mean it was suitable for 
Mr F at the point of sale and he hadnt realised it was unsuitable when he took it out
an investment 85% invested in equities would not normally be deemed suitable for a 
novice investor unless it represented only a small proportion of a clients assets or 
they had the financial means to earn back any losses relatively easily. 44.4% of 
Mr Fs assets were invested into the product and he had to support four people on a 
low single income so its not agreed that such an investment was suitable for him as 
a novice investor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
Its my understanding that the crux of Mr Fs complaint is that he was advised to invest too 
much of his money in a fund that was too risky for him. So I've thought carefully about both 
parts of the complaint. 
Was Mr F advised to invest too much of his money?
From what I know about Mr Fs financial situation at the time, he was in secure employment 
and his planned retirement age was some years off. It was reasonable to think that Mr F 
would likely be working for the next twenty years or so which meant his future earning 
potential looked good. 
And whilst he had dependants, his circumstances at the time would have looked 
comfortable. Mr F earned around £1,300 per month and there was a small amount of other 
regular household income intended to cover some of the cost of his dependants. He lived in 
his own home free from mortgage and he had no loans or other liabilities. Mr F was left 
overall with a monthly surplus of around £400 after meeting all his usual outgoings. 
Barclays fact find recorded that he had around £12,000 in cash held on deposit. 
Barclays recommended keeping cash reserves of £3,000 for planned expenditure likely 
within the next two years and also retaining cash savings of £5,000 to cover emergency 
spending or unforeseen changes in circumstances. Mr F didnt appear to have any other 
immediate need for the money, he had already made provision for anticipated financial 
requirements and hed kept back a reasonable pot of money to fall back on in the event of 
any unplanned spending needs arising. The five year investment timescale seems 
reasonable to me in the circumstances. And, as Barclays pointed out, it looked like Mr F 
should have been able to rebuild cash savings hed invested within a relatively short period 
given his monthly surplus income. So I find that £4,000 was a suitable amount for Mr F to 
invest. 
On balance, taking into account Mr Fs financial position when he decided to make this 
investment, I dont find that the amount Barclays advised Mr F to invest is a reason for me 
to uphold this complaint.
Was the medium risk fund too risky for Mr F as a first-time investor?
I agree that a clients experience of managing money is something that the advisor should 
consider when advising on investments. And I accept that Mr F was a novice investor. But 
I dont agree that a medium risk investment couldnt ever be suitable for an inexperienced 
investor. This would effectively deprive Mr F of the opportunity to make bigger investment 
gains than he could otherwise achieve, which seems unfair to me as Mr F needed to take 
some investment risk in pursuit of the capital growth he said he wanted.  
Barclays has provided copies of some of the original paperwork. There is limited evidence to 
show how Barclays established that Mr F wanted to take a medium risk approach. But, 
although there is no way of knowing exactly what Mr F understood about the risk, I think its 
likely there was some discussion around risk.
The fact find Mr F completed with the advisor set out different risk options ranging from 
Risk averse through Low risk and Medium risk to High risk. This suggests to me that 
some discussion about risk wouldve been required as part of the advisors usual sales 
process and its likely that Mr F couldve seen on the form that there were risk options. 
Also, when deciding how much cash to keep back in savings on deposit, I think its likely 
that there was discussion with the advisor about the risks of taking money out of cash 
savings and investing it instead. I think that Mr F would have understood that the higher the 
risk, the greater the potential scope for reward and that he could choose how much risk he wanted to take. I have no good reason to think that the agreed attitude to risk reflected in 
the point of sale paperwork didnt accurately record Mr Fs wishes to invest in a medium 
risk fund at the time.    
The fact alone that it was the advisor who probably ticked the relevant box isnt a reason for 
me to find that I cant rely on the information. Given Mr Fs circumstances at the point of sale 
and his investment goal, I dont think the outcome of the risk assessment was inappropriate. 
And the fact that Mr F didnt complain when his investments were subject to high market 
volatility (during 2008 for instance) also suggests he had at least a medium attitude to risk. If 
Mr Fs risk profile had been lower and hed been uncomfortable with a medium level of risk 
exposure, theres at least some likelihood that hed have been prompted to complain sooner 
than he did.
I've also taken into account that there is mention of discussion about Both growth funds.. 
All this suggests to me that Mr F had to think about and choose the level of risk he was most 
comfortable taking and he made an informed choice of investment.
To sum up, I think that Mr F understood and accepted the risk of the fund that Barclays 
advised him to invest in. If he hadnt understood the risk or he wasnt prepared to take that 
sort of risk, he wouldve been aware that there were other safer options for his savings. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr F knew he was signing up to a level of risk for 
this particular investment in order to obtain the capital growth he hoped for.  This leads me to conclude that I havent seen enough to make me think that the Barclays 
Managed Growth Fund was too risky for Mr F or otherwise unsuitable for him. 
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mr F but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman