DRN-4381678
The complaint
Mr T and Miss D are unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc trading as Swiftcover.com (AXA) has 
declined a claim they made under their home insurance.
What happened
Mr T and Miss D noticed their floor lifting, so they contacted the original installer who 
resolved the issue. However, the issue reappeared. So, Mr T and Miss D contacted AXA, 
their home insurance provider, to make a claim.
AXA appointed a surveyor to inspect the flooring. They concluded the issue was being 
caused by rising or penetrating damp over time. 
As damage caused gradually is excluded under Mr T and Miss Ds policy, and there was no 
evidence of any other insured event occurring, AXA declined the claim. Mr T and Miss D 
raised a complaint with AXA about this and the service received from the surveyor.
AXAs claim decision was maintained. However, they offered £125 compensation for a delay 
in addressing the complaint, communication issues, and to apologise if Mr T and Miss D 
were unhappy with the service provided by the surveyor.
Mr T and Miss D remained unhappy and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
she didnt think the surveyors conclusions were unreasonable, and there had been no 
evidence provided which demonstrated the conclusions reached were incorrect. 
The investigator also said that whilst she couldnt conclude with certainty what was 
discussed with the surveyor at the time, AXA had overall provided a reasonable amount of 
compensation. So, she didnt recommend AXA do anything further.
Mr T and Miss D didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr T and Miss D, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr T and Miss Ds insurance policy covers a number of insured events, such as storm, flood 
and escape of water from a fixed water installation. It also covers the wider event of 
accidental damage. 
AXA considered whether there was evidence an insured event had occurred. However, 
AXAs surveyor concluded the likely cause was penetrating or rising damp. This isnt an 
insured event itself, and AXA also referred to the following exclusion applicable to all parts of 
the policy:
Gradual deterioration/maintenance
Loss or damage caused gradually, or by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of 
light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the 
normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its contents.
At the present time, the only expert opinion on the cause of damage is that of AXAs 
surveyor. They concluded that, on balance, and in the absence of any evidence to support 
an escape of water (or other insured event), the cause of the issue was penetrating or rising 
damp, which occurs gradually, and also isnt a specific insured event. They also noted that 
the damp proof course had been removed during the previous flooring works that 
Mr T and Miss D had carried out.
Whilst I do acknowledge Mr T and Miss Ds opinion on things and that they dont agree with 
the surveyors conclusions, nothing persuasive has been provided to support the 
conclusions reached were wrong, such as expert reports demonstrating its not a damp 
problem. And nothing has been provided which shows another insured event, such as an 
escape of water, has occurred either. So, in the absence of anything which demonstrates 
AXAs surveyor reached the incorrect conclusion, or that an insured event has occurred, I 
dont think AXA have acted unfairly by relying on the surveyor opinion and declining the 
claim.
However, AXA have also said that if Mr T and Miss D are able to obtain anything which 
demonstrates the conclusions reached were incorrect, or that an insured event has 
occurred, they should submit it to them to consider further. I think thats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Mr T and Miss D have also said the surveyor told them they were employed by AXA to reject 
claims and that the claim should be covered. Whilst I acknowledge what Mr T and Miss D 
have said, I cant conclude with certainty exactly what was discussed as there is no 
recording of this conversation. But regardless of this, Im satisfied the surveyor and AXA 
reached a reasonable conclusion based on all the information Ive seen, and it hasnt been 
demonstrated they reached the wrong conclusions, or any other insured event occurred.
AXA have apologised if Mr T and Miss D found the surveyor unprofessional (but was also 
unable to establish what exactly was discussed), and they provided £125 compensation for 
this, communication issues and the delay in responding to Mr T and Miss Ds complaint. I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going to direct AXA to do 
anything further.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Miss D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman