DRN-3689137
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC placed a fraud marker against his name.
What happened
Mr K held an account with Metro. In 2017, Metro received notification from a third-party bank 
that Mr K had been the recipient of fraudulent funds into his account. It was referring to a 
payment of £784 received on 20 September 2017.
Metro carried out a review of Mr Ks account and decided to close it, providing 7 days 
notice, in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Later, Mr K realised he had a fraud marker applied against his name on the Cifas database, 
and this was causing him significant difficulty in obtaining and maintaining financial products. 
So, he made a complaint to Metro and asked it to remove the marker.
Metro responded to Mr Ks complaint defending its reasons for loading the marker. It said 
that due to the receipt of fraudulent funds, it had an obligation to report the matter to Cifas.
Mr K remained unhappy with Metros response, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but didnt find Metro had 
made an error in the circumstances. Broadly, the Investigator found that the evidence 
suggested Mr K was likely aware of the funds entering his account; they also found it likely 
Mr K authorised some of the activity that saw the fraudulent funds being spent.
Mr K disagreed. He told our service that his ex-partner was responsible for the receipt of the 
funds and the spending of them. He told our service that they had taken his card and mobile 
telephone, leading to the breach of his account.
As Mr K disagreed, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the relevant considerations here are set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database 
controller. In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit sets 
out the burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards regarding this 
complaint are: 
1. That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted. 
2. That the evidence must clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member [Metro] 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject [Mr K] to the police. 
When considering these standards, my interpretation of the bar for recording a Cifas marker 
is a high one. I must also take into consideration what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Having done so, I find that the marker has been applied fairly here: Ill 
explain why.
Mr K originally received the £784 into his savings account: held with Metro. This was then 
transferred to Mr Ks current account: also held with Metro. From here, the funds were spent 
via a number of card payment and cash withdrawals. Mr K has given a number of differing 
testimonies to explain this.
Mr K initially told Metro that that the money was spent on improvement works for a bathroom 
and supplied an invoice to support this. He didnt however divulge why hed received the 
money that was paid in, which was eventually report as fraudulent.
Metro were then contacted by a family member representing Mr K who said that hed 
innocently helped an ex-close friend by providing access to his account. No evidence was 
provided to support this. Mr K has since said that he was aware of the family member 
contacting Metro, but that the information hed provided was incorrect.
Mr K then informed our service that his ex-partner was responsible for the activity after 
theyd taken his bank card and telephone without his knowledge. He claimed that the 
information relating to his online banking was contained within his phone, which explained 
how his ex-partner had accessed and moved the funds.
These differing accounts do impact the credibility Mr Ks testimony holds. And I have 
considered this in my findings. 
Further, I dont find Mr Ks current reason for the activity to be likely. Mr K has told our 
service that his ex-partner took his telephone and bank card without his authority, which is 
how they carried out the activity in dispute.
Having looked at the account activity prior to the receipt of fraudulent funds, it was used 
frequently. Therefore, had Mr Ks card been taken without his authority, I think its likely he 
would have reported this fact to his bank. But Metro holds no reports of Mr K reporting his 
card as lost or stolen.
Furthermore, money was spent on the account from the balance that was contained within it 
prior to the fraudulent activity. Mr K has never disputed these transactions despite them 
using money that was legitimately his.
I also dont think a third-party, intent on laundering funds through another persons account, 
would do so without prior knowledge they could be guaranteed access to their account. That 
would have meant that Mr Ks ex-partner was aware of how to access his telephone, that his 
online account information was contained within the device and where to find it, knew his 
PIN and took both of these at a time that wouldnt alert Mr K, as this would have no doubt 
run the risk of have both the phone and card blocked before they could carry out the activity. 
I also question why a third-party would further complicate their fraudulent activity by having 
the funds transferred the savings account first rather than the current account. This would 
have merely required the card to extract the funds.
I cant be certain what actually happened in these circumstances, but the combined factors 
Ive mentioned above suggest that its more likely that Mr K either carried out the activity 
himself, or permitted a third-party access to his online banking and bank card.
When weighing this against the fact that Mr K has provided differing testimonies, Im 
persuaded that its more likely than not that he was aware of the activity and therefore meets 
the requirements set out by Cifas to load a marker against his name.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman