DRN-2357081
The complaint
Mr A complains about his whole-of-life life assurance policy, now run by Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited. 
To help keep my decision clear, Ill use Sun Life to mean Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited, and all the predecessor companies that ran Mr As policy. 
What happened
In September 2019, Mr As life assurance policy failed an annual review. Sun Life wrote to 
him and explained this meant that, for the policy to continue, hed either have to increase the 
monthly premium he paid, or reduce how much the policy would pay when he died (the sum 
assured). 
Mr A complained, saying hed been told when he took the policy out in 1985 that hed pay 
the same £40 premium for the rest of his life, and receive a fixed sum assured. Sun Life 
responded to the complaint, saying the initial documents for the policy had explained it would 
be reviewed. They also provided copies of the letters theyd sent when theyd done those 
reviews over the years. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us, mentioning he also wasnt happy with the size of the 
surrender value for the policy, or that hed been automatically switched to a lower sum 
assured. 
Our investigators view was that Sun Life hadnt done anything wrong. He explained that the 
documents hed seen showed the policy hadnt ever been sold as non-reviewable. He also 
explained that the surrender value was understandably less than what Mr A had paid in to 
the policy, as money had been spent over the years providing the life assurance cover. And 
he said the automatic change to a lower sum assured was in line with the terms of the policy. 
Mr A asked for the matter to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr A was hoping for a different outcome, Ive found Sun Life have acted 
reasonably in this case, so I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
The details from the sale of the policy in 1985 are  understandably, given how much time 
has passed  unable to give me a full picture of what Mr A was told at the time. But  as 
noted by Sun Life in their response to Mr As complaint  the policys terms and conditions 
from the time said that it would be reviewed regularly. Ive not seen anything that shows me 
Mr A was told anything different when he took the policy out. And the reviews, done annually 
since 2010, are consistent with the initial policy terms. 
Mr As said he was looking for this policy to support his wife financially if he died. This policy 
looks to meet that need, by paying an assured sum if Mr A dies. So I find it was reasonable 
for Sun Life to sell this specific policy to Mr A. And I find it was fair for them to then run the 
policy in line with the terms and conditions given to Mr A when it began. 
Having the investment part to the policy meant it had a surrender value if Mr A ended it in 
2019. That value isnt meant to be a refund of Mr As premiums  its the result of the 
investments made over the life of the policy, minus whats been used towards providing the 
life assurance cover. So I find it reasonable the surrender value was less than the premiums 
paid. 
Looking finally at the automatic change to a lower sum assured, this reflects that Mr A hadnt 
agreed to increase his premiums after the September 2019 review. The life assurance 
needed to continue, as Mr A hadnt said he wanted to end it. Sun Life had made clear that to 
continue at the premium Mr A had previously paid, the sum assured would need to drop. 
Given Mr A didnt agree with the increased premiums, and didnt say he wanted to end the 
policy, I find it reasonable that it continued with a lower sum assured. 
My final decision
With the above in mind, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman