DRN-2396212
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty exhaust.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr T bought a new exhaust system for his car from a company I will call S. The 
debit on his credit card account is for £1,147.60, but the order information document 
provided to the bank by Mr T shows it cost £1,045.90.
Mr T says the exhaust was faulty with it resonating between 1400 and 1800 revs when the 
engine was under a heavy load which caused vibrations. He took the car to the supplier 
which said the issue appeared to be due to a manufacturing fault. The supplier suggested 
any issues may be due the fitting of the exhaust. Mr T made a claim under Section 75 and 
Barclays commissioned an independent report. The inspector concluded:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that upon inspecting the 
aftermarket performance exhaust which had been fitted to the vehicle we found the system 
has been fitted correctly. There was no evidence of signs of combustion leakage. During 
road test the vehicle's performance was as would be expected of a performance engine. We 
did detect a resonance coming through the exhaust system at approximately 1'800 rpm. We 
did not find this to be excessive. The exhaust noise and resonance detected at the time of 
our inspection we found to be at an acceptable level than what would be expected from a 
performance exhaust system fitted to a powerful performance engine.
Barclays didnt consider there was sufficient evidence to uphold Mr Ts claim so he brought 
the matter to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
recommend his complaint be upheld.
She reviewed Ss website and could see no basis for a claim of misrepresentation and an 
independent report didnt detect any fault. As such she didnt think Barclays had been wrong 
to reject the claim. Mr T didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied the required chain is in place so I have to consider if there was either 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract. Mr T has said he looked at the manufacturers 
website and it stated that at lower revs the sound remains relatively civilised. The 
manufacturer is not part of the contract into which Mr T entered and I have seen nothing 
from the supplier that can be said to be misrepresentation.
I would add that I have noted that the manufacturers statement uses the word relatively 
which is a subjective term so even if I were to take the manufacturers website into account t 
I dont consider it aids Mr Ts claim.
That means the only other issue to consider is whether there has been a clear breach of 
contract.
Mr T said to S I want to buy this exhaust and it supplied the one he requested. On that level 
it delivered what was sought by Mr T. As for the exhaust it would appear that there is some 
resonance at certain revs, but does that mean it is faulty? The independent inspector thinks 
not and the dealer which sold the car says it would appear to be a manufacturing fault. That 
is not a clear and definitive statement. 
We have an independent report saying the exhaust is not faulty and one that says it may be. 
No account has been taken of the fitting of the exhaust so even if I were to accept there was 
fault it is quite possible this may have arisen from the fitting. Mr T has not established there 
is a fault and if I were to agree the resonance was fault, I have not seen clear evidence as to 
the cause.
For a Section 75 claim to succeed there has to be a clear breach of contract and Mr T has 
not supplied evidence that would allow me to say that there was. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman