DRN-4120456
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter irresponsibly gave her a fixed 
sum loan agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mrs B was the victim of fraud, in that she was coerced or tricked by a third party into taking 
out a loan with RateSetter. The loan application was made in February 2022 and the loan 
proceeds paid into Mrs Bs bank account from which she then transferred the proceeds to 
the fraudster. The amount borrowed was £24,000. Mrs B was required to pay 60 monthly 
repayments of £461.60.
Mrs B has made a separate complaint about the loan being taken out fraudulently and that 
has been dealt with by a different ombudsman under a separate complaint. I wont therefore 
be commenting on those issues here. This complaint relates to Mrs B saying that RateSetter 
should never have approved the loan in the first place as appropriate affordability checks 
would have shown she couldnt afford to repay it. 
RateSetter said it had carried out adequate affordability checks before granting the loan and 
these showed that the loan would be affordable to Mrs B. It said that it had already agreed to 
remove all interest and charges from the loan meaning Mrs B only needed to repay the 
capital borrowed and it considered this to be fair in the circumstances. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought RateSetter had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks and that it had made a fair 
lending decision based on what it could see. 
Mrs B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to granting credit RateSetter were required to ensure Mrs B could sustainably afford to 
repay it. There isnt a set list of checks it had to complete, instead the requirement was that 
the checks it did were proportionate in the circumstances. This means that there wasnt a 
one-size-fits-all approach to what checks needed to be done. In deciding what was 
proportionate, RateSetter needed to take into consideration things such as (but not limited 
to): the amount borrowed, the total repayable, the type of credit, the cost of credit, the size of 
the regular repayments and the consumers circumstances. 
As part of the application RateSetter were told that Mrs B was self-employed with a monthly 
income of around £1,400. The application stated Mrs B was a homeowner with no mortgage. 
It also completed a credit check, which showed that Mrs B had some existing credit facilities 
which were being managed well, but it did show she held a mortgage. RateSetter got in 
touch with the applicant to ask further questions about Mrs Bs income and expenditure, 
including asking for copies of bank statements to verify her financial circumstances.
Ive seen that RateSetter did review Mrs Bs joint account statements for around five months 
prior to the lending decision, as well as her business account statements for the two months 
prior to the lending decision. This coupled with the information it obtained from her (or 
someone claiming to be her) and its credit check I think means it gathered a reasonable and 
proportionate amount of information and evidence to help it assess whether the loan was 
affordable. However, just because I think the checks were proportionate, that doesnt 
automatically mean it also made a fair lending decision. So, Ive gone onto consider what the 
checks and evidence revealed to RateSetter. 
The checks show that Mrs Bs partner also earned an income and contributed to the 
household expenditure. Mrs B (or her partner) also received regular benefit payments as a 
form of income on top of their usual wages. The account activity from the bank statements 
RateSetter could see demonstrated that the RateSetter loan would be affordable to Mrs B 
(or at the very least to the household as a whole, as their income and expenditure appeared 
to be shared). It appears from the information and evidence they gathered that there was 
sufficient disposable income each month to afford the regular monthly repayments with 
funds left over for unexpected bills or other unforeseen costs. 
I note also that a few months before this loan was taken out, Mrs Bs joint bank statements 
show a sizeable deposit being made into savings bonds of nearly £30,000. I think this would 
also have given RateSetter some comfort that Mrs B had the means with which to repay the 
loan. Overall, based on the evidence and information that was available, Ive not seen 
anything to make me think that RateSetter ought to have been concerned about the 
affordability of the loan. I therefore dont think it made an unfair lending decision. 
In any event, RateSetter has already agreed to waive all the interest and charges under the 
loan agreement. This is all the financial remedy I would have required it to do if I had thought 
it lent unfairly to Mrs B. I note Mrs B is concerned about the entries on her credit file too, but 
as I dont think RateSetter made an unfair lending decision I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to make any direction in relation to what it is reporting about her 
repayments. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman