DRN-4368252
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled his home emergency claim. 
Any reference to Aviva may include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr W claimed under his home emergency policy after his electrics kept tripping when he 
switched on his kitchen light. Aviva sent an electrician who didnt find a fault. The electrician 
said Mr W should contact Aviva again if the light continued to trip the electrics.
The problem continued, so Mr W contacted Aviva again. It sent an electrician, who identified 
a fault with the fluorescent light. The electrician took down the light and replaced it with a 
single bulb pendant light fitting.
When Mr W asked Aviva to fit a new fluorescent light, it said a like-for-like replacement 
wasnt covered under the home emergency policy.
Mr W complained to Aviva. He said hed been left with a single bulb causing shadows in his 
kitchen, and a long, undecorated strip on the ceiling where the original light fitting had been. 
Mr W thought it would be reasonable for Aviva to fit an LED light which would get around the 
policy regarding like-for-like replacements. He also complained that the electrician had been 
rude to him.
Aviva looked into Mr Ws complaint, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong in respect 
of the kitchen light replacement. It said the pendant light was installed as a meantime 
measure  a temporary measure  until Mr W could make arrangements for a different 
fitting. In the absence of any evidence to show that its electrician had been rude to Mr W, 
Aviva accepted this element of his complaint and apologised.
Mr W didnt think that was enough, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Aviva had handled Mr Ws claim in line with the policy, so he didnt 
propose any further action.
Mr W didnt agree. He said Avivas agents were responsible for the rude conduct hed 
encountered, and he clarified that the policy didnt provide for a replacement fluorescent 
tube, but it didnt prevent Aviva from fitting one.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to him, but I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that Aviva did 
anything wrong. Ill explain.
For me to uphold Mr Ws complaint, Id need to see that Aviva failed to handle his claim in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. In this case, Mr Ws light caused the electrics to 
trip. Looking at the policy it provides cover for electrics, but it doesnt cover:
e) routine electrical maintenance tasks including:
i. replacing lights bulbs, fluorescent tubes and decorative light fittings 
Looking at what Aviva did, it identified the fault and replaced the light fitting with another as a 
temporary measure until Mr W bought a new fitting. It refused to supply and fit a new like-for-
like or similar light fitting, although it confirmed it would fit one if Mr W bought it.
As Avivas actions are in line with the policy, Im satisfied that Aviva handled the claim 
reasonably.
Ive gone on to think about whether Avivas actions were fair in the circumstances. I can 
understand that Mr W would want Aviva to install a permanent new light fitting of a similar 
style and size to his original fitting. But the policy is there to provide assistance in 
emergencies which, in this case, was restoring the light to Mr Ws kitchen and preventing 
further electrical trips. The evidence shows that Aviva did exactly that. The policy doesnt 
provide for Avivas agents carrying out further work beyond fixing the immediate problem, so 
I wouldnt expect Aviva to install a new light fitting. Nevertheless, Aviva told Mr W it would 
install a new light fitting for him once hed bought one. I think thats fair in the circumstances 
and I dont find that Aviva did anything wrong here.
Mr W said the electrician left the old fluorescent light on his kitchen floor. Avivas evidence 
shows that it was so Mr W could replace the fitting with something similar. While I 
understand that Mr W mightve expected Aviva to take it away, I dont think it did anything 
wrong by leaving the light fitting.
Ive looked at the letters Mr W sent to Aviva, trying to get a response to his request for a new 
LED light fitting and installation. He wrote directly to named people at Aviva and expected a 
direct response in return. Aviva didnt reply to all of Mr Ws letters, and the replies werent 
from the person to whom Mr W addressed the letter. While Aviva may not have responded 
on every occasion, Im not asking it to do anything in respect of this part of Mr Ws complaint. 
Thats because Aviva had already sent its final response letter to Mr W, so he ought to have 
been aware that it wouldnt be doing any more regarding his complaint. 
Having looked at Mr Ws comments about the conduct of an electrician during a previous 
appointment regarding his shower, I accept that he may have been upset by their manner. 
Given the passage of time, Aviva said there was no evidence of the events Mr W reported 
but it accepted his description in good faith. Aviva apologised to Mr W For any perceived 
rudeness.
Overall, I find that Aviva handled Mr Ws claim in line with the home emergency policy. 
Therefore, I see no reason to require anything of Aviva in respect of Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman