DRN-3652073
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is about a mortgage he holds with Nationwide Building Society. He is 
unhappy with the differing information he was given about overpayments in various 
conversations with Nationwide during 2021. 
What happened
In 2020 Mr O sought mortgage advice from an independent mortgage broker. He applied for 
a mortgage with Nationwide, which completed in December 2020 over a term of 25 years. 
In January 2021 Mr O increased the amount he was paying to the mortgage. He has 
explained that his purpose in doing so was to reduce the term of the mortgage and save 
interest. 
In September 2021 Mr O had a conversation with Nationwide about his overpayments. Mr O 
asked, if he continued to pay £1,000, how long it would be before the mortgage finished. It 
was confirmed that the remaining term on the contract was 24 years and 2 months, but if he 
continued to make the overpayments as he was, hed pay off the mortgage in approximately 
16 years. This was caveated with the fact that the calculation had been done based on the 
assumption that the mortgage interest rate remained the same, which wouldnt be the case. 
As such, if the interest rate was lower in the future, the mortgage might be paid off more 
quickly and if interest rates were higher, it would take longer to pay the mortgage off. There 
were then discussions about the amount that would need to be paid to reduce the term to 15 
years and what the term would go down to if he paid a single additional payment of £200 
and if he increased his monthly payments to £1,200. 
In November 2021 Mr O had a further conversation about the mortgage. He asked for a 
redemption figure and this was broken down to explain the balance and the fees. There was 
then a discussion about a new interest rate product being attached to the mortgage, with the 
timescales and process explained. The conversation then went on to the matter of Mr Os 
overpayments. Nationwide said that it was visible that overpayments were being made, but 
there was no preference recorded on the account, so the overpayments wouldnt be 
reducing the term. It was also explained that the term of the mortgage wasnt changing 
because the overpayments werent enough to trigger a recalculation  that would only 
happen if he was paying an additional £500 each month. It was, however, confirmed that the 
overpayments were coming off the balance and were saving him interest. The total amount 
of the overpayments was showing as an overpayment reserve figure and that balance could 
be used for flexibility in the mortgage, such as making underpayments. When Mr O 
explained his purpose in making the overpayments and what hed been told before, it was 
confirmed that if he continued to make the overpayments as he was, the mortgage would be 
repaid in 15 years and 8 months. Caveats about this being dependent on what happened to 
interest rates were given. A complaint was then submitted for Mr O. 
Nationwide explained in its response to the complaint that whenever an overpayment was 
received, it was deducted from the balance of the mortgage and reduced the amount of 
interest charged. However, unless the overpayment was of more than £500 there wouldnt 
be a recalculation of the account, that would result in either the contractual monthly payment 
(CMP) or term being reduced. For payments under £500 a recalculation would only happen 
when the interest rate changed. If Mr O wanted a recalculation done more regularly, he 
would need to call and ask for it to be done. Alternatively, Mr O could apply for a formal term 
reduction and increase in his CMP to £1,000. Nationwide acknowledged that it could have 
explained the overpayments and how they worked more clearly in its conversations with 
Mr O. It apologised and offered him £100 compensation. 
As a result of the complaint, Nationwide recorded a preference on its systems that any 
overpayments were to be used to reduce the term of the mortgage when recalculations were 
done. A recalculation was also done. The overpayments that had already been paid reduced 
the term of the mortgage to 22 years and 11 months as at the end of January 2022. 
Confirmation of the recalculation and its effect was sent to Mr O in a letter of 
17 February 2022. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response and asked us to consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained how overpayments were used in relation to the mortgage balance and 
interest accrual. While Mr O believed this should reflect in the term of the mortgage 
immediately, that isnt how the mortgage worked. He didnt think there was any question that 
the overpayments had been applied to the mortgage and had immediately reduced the 
amount of interest accruing, and since a manual recalculation had been done in early 2021, 
they had been reflected in the remaining term. However, Mr O could formally reduce the 
term of the mortgage to match the CMP he wanted to pay. The investigator concluded that 
the issues in the explanations Nationwide had given Mr O were down to the flexible nature of 
the mortgage, and he was satisfied that the apology and £100 Nationwide had already paid 
was sufficient to compensate.
Mr O didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He provided a link to Nationwides 
mortgage calculator, which he considered to be misleading in what it led him to understand 
the effect the overpayments would have on the term of the mortgage. 
The investigator explained that while the mortgage calculator showed the potential effect of 
overpayments on the mortgage term, it didnt say that the formal term of the mortgage would 
be reduced whenever an overpayment was made. For that to happen there needed to be a 
trigger to cause a recalculation, such as a request from the borrower or an interest rate 
change. He didnt change his conclusions.
Mr O asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. He subsequently asked for 
some evidence regarding the terms and conditions of the mortgage and the recalculation 
completed as at the end of January 2022. The information was provided along with an 
explanation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the merits of this complaint, I would initially highlight that the mortgage 
was arranged with the assistance of a mortgage broker. As such, it would have been the 
brokers responsibility to ensure that Mr O understood how the mortgage he was applying for worked. If there were any omissions or confusion in Mr Os understanding when the 
mortgage was advanced, I cant hold Nationwide responsible for that. As such, I will only be 
considering the information that Nationwide provided Mr O, either in writing or orally.
There are two ways of reducing the term of a mortgage: formally reducing the term, with the 
associated change in the CMP, or an informal arrangement where a borrower makes either 
regular or one-off overpayments. The latter will effectively reduce the term of the mortgage 
simply because there will be less to be paid, but will often not result in a formal, contractual 
reduction in the term of the mortgage. In the case of Mr Os mortgage, he was informally 
reducing the term of the mortgage, with a periodic alteration to the formal term, when a 
recalculation was done due to one of a number of specific triggers occurred. These being if 
the payment was of £500 or more, there was an interest rate change that would alter the 
CMP or if a recalculation was requested.
While Mr O chose to make regular overpayments, the amount of those overpayments was 
not sufficient to trigger a recalculation. So a recalculation would only occur if requested or if 
there was an interest rate change. As Mr O had attached an interest rate product to his 
mortgage, an interest rate change wouldnt occur until the end of that product term. This is 
why the mortgage term hadnt been reduced formally to reflect the effect of the 
overpayments when Mr O spoke to Nationwide. It is not for this service to tell a business 
what its processes and procedures should be, and as such, I cant find that Nationwide was 
wrong in how it handled Mr Os overpayments. 
Mr O has also commented that he was told the overpayments would reduce the term to 16 
years, and this is also what the repayment calculator led him to believe. It is true that Mr O 
was told that if he made the same overpayment each month going forward the mortgage 
would be repaid after approximately 16 years and was correct. However, in any 
recalculation, any term reduction resulting from overpayments will only take into account the 
overpayments already made, and not assume they would continue going forwards as that 
isnt something that is guaranteed to happen. As Nationwide pointed out, if Mr O wants the 
term to reflect a payment of £1,000 for the remaining term, he would need to apply for a 
formal term reduction and change his CMP to £1,000. Again, I dont consider that 
Nationwide was wrong in what it told Mr O.
That said, the explanations given in the September and November 2021 discussions may 
well have been confusing. However, in the context of the conversations, I dont think 
Nationwide misled Mr O. I say this as he wasnt told in the September 2021 conversation 
that the term of the mortgage would be reduced to 16 years, rather he was told if he kept 
paying what he was, the mortgage would be paid off after approximately 16 years. The 
November 2021 conversation was more about the processes and what would and could 
happen when and how. I think the confusion has come about because of assumptions Mr O 
made about how the overpayments would be administered, and I cant hold Nationwide 
responsible if those assumptions were wrong. That said, I agree with Nationwide that the 
explanations, while not incorrect, could have been fuller and painted a clearer overall picture. 
As such, I agree that some compensation should be paid to Mr O, but I think the amount 
Nationwide has already paid is sufficient. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
28 September 2022.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman