DRN-3829851
The complaint
Miss H complains about Alwyn Insurance Company Limited (Alwyn) who failed to send her, 
her policy documents and later declined a claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss H held a commercial home insurance policy with Alwyn, which included cover for home 
emergencies. A few days after it had renewed, Miss Hs boiler broke down in the tenanted 
property. She asked an engineer to fix it. But he found that the boiler was beyond economic 
repair and advised that a new boiler was required. 
Miss H paid for the cost of a new boiler. It was only after this event, when she contacted 
Alwyn to enquire where her policy documents were, that Alwyn sent Miss H her policy 
documents. It was at this point that Miss H noticed that she wouldve been covered for the 
boiler breakdown, and she contacted Alwyn to make a claim. 
Alwyn advised Miss H that as the policy conditions hadnt been followed by her, it would 
decline her claim. She told Alwyn that she was unaware that her policy wouldve provided 
cover for her boiler, as it hadnt sent her the policy documents.  It further went on to say that 
it wouldnt override the decision to decline, as the cover had been included in previous years 
policies. 
Miss H told Alwyn that its decision to decline was unfair as insurers regularly update policy 
terms and conditions. And in any event, the previous policy had expired, and she didnt have 
a copy of the terms. She also said that had she been aware of the policy terms (if she had 
received her documents), she wouldve made a claim correctly adhering to those terms.  She 
asked Alwyn to reimburse her the £500 she wouldve been entitled to under the policy terms.  
As this wasnt done, she referred a complaint to our service. 
During our investigators investigation of the complaint, Alwyn told him that it had been trying 
to contact Miss H, albeit unsuccessfully, as it agreed that it should pay her the £500. But our 
investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that it was 
fair that Alwyn agreed to pay the £500 to Miss H, provided she submit proof of payment, 
which was done, and recommended that the £500 should be paid. 
Following the recommendation, Alwyn (despite indicating that it agreed with our 
investigators view) did not pay Miss H the £500 and had not done so for over several 
months. So, given the delay, Miss H has asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
And I will explain why I think this is fair. 
The facts of this complaint are known to both parties and dont appear to be in dispute. 
Alwyn has accepted that it should pay Miss H the £500 she is entitled to, under the terms of 
her policy. From what I have read, it accepted this in an email on 23 June 2022. 
Since then and following our investigators recommendation, Alwyn has not paid the £500. I 
can see that there was some communication between Alwyn and our service, in which Alwyn 
reiterated that it would pay the £500, but this hasnt been paid.  I note that there has been no 
reason given by Alwyn as to why there has been a delay in settling the claim. 
Miss H has waited for a number of months for settlement of the claim. And in the absence of 
any reasons for the delays, I think that it fair and reasonable that Alwyn now settle the claim 
by paying Miss H the £500, that she is entitled too. 
Also, as Alwyn has given no reason why it hasnt paid the £500, as it said it would, Im 
satisfied that Miss H has suffered from the impact of this. And as such, Alwyn ought to 
recognise the trouble and upset that this has caused. For this error, I think Alwyn should pay 
Miss H a further £175, for the trouble and upset this has caused. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct Alwyn as below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Alwyn Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss H £500 for the claim.
Alwyn Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss H £175, for the trouble and upset caused.
Alwyn Insurance Company Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Miss H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Alwyn Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman