DRN-4346182
The complaint
Mr H complains about Zopa Limiteds handling of the transfer of his Innovative Finance ISA 
to a new provider. He says delays have caused him a financial loss and he has suffered 
hassle and stress by the way the transfer was handled.  
What happened
In December 2021, Mr H requested a transfer of his ISA to a new provider. The transfer 
forms were sent to Zopa on 23 December 2021, but due to delays the transfer didnt 
complete until the start of March 2022. Mr H says during the transfer process, Zopa failed to 
respond to communications and he spent a lot of time chasing. He also says Zopa 
transferred an incorrect amount, which had to be retuned and corrected. At the end of 
February, as the transfer still hadnt completed, Mr H raised a complaint about the way Zopa 
handled things. 
Zopa responded. It said it didnt receive the initial transfer form from the new provider, and 
the first contact it received was a chaser in January. It said its procedure is to not respond to 
chasers, and the first time it received a transfer form was in mid-February 2022. It also 
acknowledged an error occurred with the transfer amount and had corrected this. It made Mr 
H a goodwill offer of £50 that was later increased to £100. Mr H didnt accept the offer and 
referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. 
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023. This is what I said:
Ive reviewed the available evidence regarding Mr Hs ISA transfer. Having done, so Im 
satisfied there were delays caused by Zopa that prevented Mr H from investing his funds 
sooner with his new provider. 
There is evidence that Zopa received communications from the new ISA provider on 10 
January 2022. It said it didnt receive the original transfer from that was sent, and as this was 
only a chaser it didnt respond. Zopa says the reason for this was that its process at the time 
wasnt to respond to chasers. 
Ive considered Zopas submissions around why the transfer took longer than expected. 
Zopa was made aware of the transfer at least by 10 January 2022. While it says it had a 
process not to respond to chasers, I dont think it is reasonable to expect Mr H to accept 
delays because of this. If it had reviewed and responded to this communication, it would 
have realised that Mr H was attempting to transfer, and it could have been completed sooner 
than it was. 
In Zopas submissions to this service it has conceded that it should have completed the 
transfer within 30 days of receiving notice of the transfer. It has calculated that the transfer 
should have been done by 9 February 2022  and as the transfer didnt complete until March 
there was a 20-day delay. The investigator thought that Mr H should be compensated for 
any potential investment loss because he didnt have his funds available to invest on 9 
February 2022. She accepted the timeframe that the transfer should have been completed 
within the guidelines of 30 calendar days from 10 January 2022. 
Mr H has provided a copy of his ISA statement. This shows he received the transferred 
funds from Zopa into his ISA on 3 March 2022. But he didnt make any immediate 
investments, rather he proceed to invest money from 17 March 2022 and over the next week 
he had invested the majority of the £70,000. It isnt possible to calculate investment loss in 
the way the investigator suggested, as Mr H didnt invest his money immediately after 
receiving it. This calculation would require a comparison of what was actually purchased at 
the time of receipt of the funds and what it would costs to buy the same investments on 9 
February 2022. But as the money wasnt fully invested until a few weeks later this 
methodology wouldnt give an accurate outcome.  
Mr H says he would have invested the funds in a FTSE tracker fund if the transfer had been 
received sooner, without delay. But he says he didnt follow this strategy when he actually 
received the funds as the investment landscape had significantly changed and he instead 
did a phased purchased of a number of different shares and ETFs, with only a small 
proportion of his funds going into a FTSE tracker type investments. 
I understand Mr Hs comments about the investment landscape changing between when he 
started the transfer process, to when he received his funds. Im also conscious that from a 
quick research of the FTSE performance in the relevant period, it began to drop from around 
the 9 February and was still falling by the start of March. So, it is possible that had Mr H 
receive his funds sooner and followed a strategy to invest in FTSE tracker funds the value of 
his investment would have actually gone down during the delayed period. But all of this is 
hypothetical and using the benefit of hindsight. It leads me to conclude there isnt certainty 
around how Mr H would have invested but for the delays and also that it is difficult to say that 
he has suffered an investment loss due to the delays. So Im not intending to ask Zopa to 
consider an investment loss. 
But clearly the whole process has been made more difficult by Zopas handling of the 
transfer - and I think further compensation should be paid to Mr H due to this. Ive listened to 
calls Mr H had with Zopa about the transfer. He is clearly frustrated that no action is being 
taken. He had to chase several times and wasnt always given clear information about what 
was happening, or why the transfer wasnt being processed. There were delays in the 
process that I find Zopa responsible for. This caused uncertainty for Mr H and led to him 
spending time trying to get to the bottom of what was going on. There was also mistakes in 
the amount transferred that caused hassle and needed to be corrected. I dont think the 
£100 Zopa has offered Mr H is sufficient to compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr H has suffered as a result of the whole process. I note Mr Hs request for compensation 
for the time he has spent dealing with inquiries from this service. We are a free service to the 
public, and dont make awards for the time spent as part of our investigation. 
To put things right, I intend on telling Zopa to pay Mr H £300 (less anything it has already 
paid him) in compensation to recognise the full impact on him by the way the ISA transfer 
was handled.
Mr H responded to say he accepted the proposed compensation. He reiterated that so far 
Zopa hasnt paid him any compensation and confirmed he had not received the £100 it 
originally offered. 
Zopa also responded to say it accepted the decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr H and Zopa accepted my provisional findings, Ive got no reason to change the 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision. I have noted Mr Hs comments that he hasnt 
been paid any compensation by Zopa yet  this being the case - Zopa needs to pay the full 
amount I have set out below in order to fully compensate him. 
To confirm, for the reasons described in my provisional decision, I find Zopa has caused 
delays in the handling of Mr Hs ISA transfer, and he has suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result. To compensate Mr H for this impact, Zopa need to pay £300 in 
compensation.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Zopa Limited to pay Mr H £300 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman