DRN-2791010
The complaint
Ms N complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited insisted she install an expensive 
alarm system or accept a high excess on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms N owns properties in two different locations. Both properties are insured by Hiscox. 
When Ms N told her insurer that she was now using the second property as her main 
residence Hiscox told her to install an expensive alarm system at her more rural location. But 
Ms N said she had problems getting someone to quote for a security system because of 
lockdown restrictions. 
About a year later Ms N moved back to live in her first property. But even though she didnt 
have an alarm before, Hiscox still insisted she fit a security system or accept a large theft 
excess on her policy. 
Ms N says Hiscox actions made no sense and shes found her treatment very upsetting. 
Hiscox wants her to spend around £1000 even though she didnt need an alarm when it was 
previously her main residence. So she wants Hiscox to remove the alarm requirement, 
remove the higher excess, apologise and explain its inconsistent approach. 
Hiscox said the alarm clause had been applied in line with its current underwriting criteria. 
Itd reviewed the risk and confirmed what terms it could offer. Hiscox said that given Ms Ns 
concerns about having someone in the house to install an alarm it offered to change the 
terms of her insurance policy to reflect an increased theft excess instead. 
Ms N wasnt satisfied with Hiscox response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Ms N had made Hiscox aware shed be 
spending more time at her other property. 
And Hiscox had reviewed the change in circumstances to decide what it meant for the 
insurance policy Ms N had with it. She thought Hiscox had acted reasonably in deciding an 
alarm should be installed at the property Ms N would be spending less time at.
She accepted Ms N had security cameras and there were CCTV warning signs. But our 
investigator felt thered been an increase in the risk to a property in a rural location. And 
Hiscox was entitled to reassess what risk it was willing to cover. 
Although Ms N had now relocated back to the rural property our investigator said it wasnt 
unreasonable for Hiscox to still ask Ms N to comply with the alarm clause. And she felt itd 
acted fairly by offering an alternative solution by increasing the theft excess instead of the 
alarm clause. So she wouldnt be asking Hiscox to do anything more. 
Ms N didnt agree. Shed been told it wasnt possible to get an alarm system fitted due to the 
age of the cottage. And Hiscox had overestimated the value of the jewellery she kept there. 
So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Ms N has had to bring this complaint to our service. I can see how upsetting this 
has been for her. So Ive looked carefully at everything Ms N and Hiscox have said to see if 
Hiscox has done anything wrong. But Im afraid Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.  
As our investigator has explained, the home insurance policy is a contract between Hiscox 
and Ms N. Customers are entitled to look at different insurers when deciding which policy 
best suits their requirements. And the insurer is entitled to make commercial decisions about 
who it offers insurance to and the risks it wants to insure, depending on its risk appetite. 
Of course both parties can choose to alter or end the contract. The policyholder can alter the 
level of cover they require, and the insurer may reassess the level of risk it wants to accept 
as market conditions or policyholder circumstances change.
When Ms N first took out her home insurance policy for the rural property she wasnt asked 
to install an alarm. And she says she hadnt needed to make any claims relating to theft in 
the time shes lived there. But when she told Hiscox shed changed her main address to her 
other property the insurer reconsidered the risk it faced. 
The property was in a rural location and would now have limited occupancy. And I dont think 
Hiscox acted unreasonably in deciding Ms N should have an alarm system fitted to increase 
the level of protection. Thered been a change of circumstances and Hiscox felt the level of 
risk had increased as a result.
I appreciate that Ms Ns property is in a rural location and there might not be much response 
to the sound of an alarm unless a response contract was also in place. And she says her 
property is an old cottage which made it both difficult and unappealing to fit a full alarm 
system. Ms N said she already has security cameras in place and warning signs to say the 
property was being monitored. But Hiscox still felt the house was at risk and it felt an alarm 
was necessary.
About a year later Ms N told Hiscox shed be returning to the rural property as her main 
location. Shed not been able to get anyone to install an alarm during the lockdown period. 
And she didnt feel it was now necessary as shed be staying at the property more often. 
I can understand why Ms N felt upset that Hiscox was still insisting on an alarm system  
even though it hadnt when shed lived there before. But as Ive explained the insurer is 
entitled to react to changing circumstances and the alarm clause had been in place when the 
policy renewed earlier that year.
Ms N says her valuables arent worth as much as Hiscox believe. And I can see Hiscox 
updated the jewellery sums insured in response to updated information from Ms N. But I 
cant say it was unreasonable for Hiscox to continue to ask Ms N to install an alarm  even 
though shed now be spending more time at the rural property. And I can see Hiscox 
responded to Ms Ns concerns by offering to increase the theft excess to £2500 as an 
alternative to an alarm installation.
Even though Ms N is now living at the property I think Hiscox is still entitled to require the 
alarm clause. And its suggested an alternative solution by offering to increase the excess for 
theft instead. I think thats a reasonable response in the circumstances.I know Ms N will be disappointed with this outcome. As a loyal paying customer she feels let 
down by Hiscox. And I appreciate how upsetting it must be for Ms N that a temporary 
change in her residence led to a change in her insurance cover.
But based on everything Ive seen I cant say Hiscox has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
asking Ms N to install an alarm in response to the changing circumstances and a 
reassessment of the risks it was exposed to. And I wont be asking Hiscox to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman