DRN-4109714
The complaint
Miss T complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed her account.
Miss T is represented by Mr D. 
What happened
Miss T had a mini current account with Santander, which was opened in December 2021. 
Miss T used her account to receive money from her parents and everyday spending. Since 
opening the account, it had an average balance of less than £100.
On 2 July 2022, a credit of £10,000 was paid into Miss Ts account. The money was sent by 
Mr D. Following this, Santander decided to review how Miss T was operating her account. 
Whilst it completed its review Santander blocked Miss Ts account. This meant Miss T 
couldnt access the £10,000 that had been paid into her account.
Miss T discovered that her account was blocked when she tried to transfer some of the 
money in her account to her father on 3 July 2022. So, she called Santander to try and find 
out whether there was a problem with her account. Santander explained to Miss T that it had 
blocked her account due to the unusually large payment that had been paid into her account. 
And it asked her to explain why shed received the money. Miss T told Santander that the 
money had been given to her by Mr D, as a present, for no particular reason. And that Mr D 
was a close family friend. Santander told Mr T that shed need to provide it with some 
information about where the money had come from to show that she was entitled to the 
money, such as a bank statement from Mr D.
On 4 July 2022, Miss T rang Santander again. During the call she said that Mr D was her 
godfather and had given her the £10,000 as an act of kindness. She said that she would 
contact Mr D and get the information from him to give to the bank. The following day Miss T 
provided an email to Santander from Mr D which said hed given the money to Miss T as a 
gift and had done so because he was worried about his health. So wanted to make the 
payment to her before he died. Miss T also provided a payment slip from Mr Ds bank, 
showing the transaction from his account to Miss Ts account. Santander said that the 
information Miss T had provided wasnt enough and asked her to provide Mr Ds bank 
statement. Santander also explained that Miss Ts account would remain blocked.
Following this Miss T went into Santander with her parents to explain that Mr D wasnt happy 
to provide his bank statement as he was worried about his personal information being 
compromised. However, a few days later, Mr D provided his statements to Miss T who sent 
them to Santander. Santander noticed that there were some discrepancies between the 
email from Mr D and the statements, so it reached out to Mr Ds bank to provide it with 
information about the £10,000 payment Mr D had made to Miss T.
In response, Mr Ds bank told Santander that it had tried to contact Mr D and was waiting for 
him to get in touch so that it could ask him about the payment. Following this Santander sent 
Mr Ds bank numerous chasers between July and September 2022. Santander didnt get a 
response from the sending bank. Santander explained to Miss T that it was having difficulty 
getting Mr Ds bank to speak to them. And asked her to get Mr D to prompt his bank to 
respond. 
In the meantime, Santander decided to close Miss Ts account and gave her 30 days notice 
that she needed to find another bank account. In November 2022, Santander said it was 
happy to release the £10,000 to Miss T, and after confirming Miss Ts address sent her a 
cheque.
Mr D wasnt happy with Santanders actions. He complained to Santander and said the bank 
had treated him and Miss T appallingly. He said Santander sent the police to his address 
and accused him of money laundering. He explained that hes done nothing wrong and was 
entitled to give his money to Miss T. He says his character has been blemished and 
Santander shouldnt be allowed to do what it did. Santander said it hadnt done anything 
wrong. So, Mr D brought Miss Ts complaint to our service where one of our investigators 
looked into what had happened. 
After reviewing all the information, the investigator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. He 
thought the bank had acted fairly in not releasing the money and blocking her account. He 
did think that Santander should have allowed Miss T to use her account up until it closed but 
didnt think this had caused Miss T any detriment. Mr D on behalf of Miss T disagreed. He 
said our service is biased and that Santander had no right to accuse him of money 
laundering.
In response the investigator explained to Mr D that as he isnt a customer of Santander, we 
cant consider any impact Santanders action had on him. Mr D said hes been treated like a 
criminal by Santander and intends to take the bank to court. He asked for an ombudsman to 
look at Miss Ts complaint.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to make it clear that I can only consider Miss Ts complaint with Santander, not 
Mr Ds. Whilst I understand Mr D s involvement in this matter  he gave Miss T the money 
and is also representing her in her complaint  he is not a customer of Santander. I can only 
look at whether Santander has treated Miss T fairly and reasonably. So, I wont be 
considering any impact Santanders actions may have had on Mr D.
In response to the investigators view, Mr D has also said that our service is biased  with 
the implication being that the Santander is influencing our conclusions inappropriately. Whilst 
I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what both 
parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what 
we have done in this complaint. If Mr D on behalf of Miss T does not agree with our view, he 
does not have to accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision, he will be free to 
continue to pursue his concerns by other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, 
advise him on how to go about doing that.
As the investigator explained, Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They can broadly be summarised as a 
responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial 
crime. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing 
relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. The terms of the account also permit 
Santander to block an account. This means Santander is entitled to block and review an 
account at any time.
Ive looked at the information that has been provided by the parties, Miss Ts account was 
flagged for review and was restricted by Santander due a large payment coming into the 
account. From looking at how Miss T usually operated her account, this payment was out of 
character for its usual activity. Considering this and Miss Ts age I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Santander to block Miss Ts account.  And ask her for information about 
the money in her account and where it came from  which theyre entitled to do under their 
obligations and the terms of the account. 
Having reviewed everything, I think Santanders requests were reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ultimately it is Santander who decide what information they do or do not 
require as part of a review and they have a duty to protect their customers money and 
understand where it came from. Because of that, I cant say Santander treated Miss T 
unfairly or acted inappropriately when it blocked her account and asked her to provide 
information.
Miss T says Santander took too long to complete its review of the account. I do accept that it 
took around four months for Santander to agree to release the £10,000. But I dont consider 
that it would be right for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in excess of any particular or 
specific timeframe. Because Santander was entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it 
did in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
In reaching this conclusion, Im satisfied that Santander didnt cause any unnecessary 
delays and were trying to complete its enquiries as quickly as possible. I can see that 
Santander repeatedly chased Mr Ds bank to respond to its enquiries relating to the money 
that Miss T received. And it was Mr Ds bank that failed to respond. So, it wouldnt be fair for 
me to hold Santander responsible for another banks failings. I appreciate that Santander 
holding onto the £10,000 caused Miss T upset. It wouldnt, however, be appropriate to make 
an award for compensation for that since I dont believe that Santander acted inappropriately 
in taking the actions that it did.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Miss Ts account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of her account and Im satisfied they did. Its generally for banks to 
decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
The terms and conditions outline that the bank can close a customers account with two 
months notice, and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this 
case Santander closed Miss Ts account with notice  it gave her thirty days notice to find 
another account. However, Miss T wasnt able to use her account from the date Santander 
blocked it. So, I consider Santander closed the account immediately. For Santander to act 
fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and 
having looked at these terms and all the evidence I would expect to see stronger evidence 
than it has provided. So like the investigator, I think Santander should have allowed Miss T 
access to her account during the notice period.
With this in mind, Ive thought about the impact that Santander closing her account 
immediately had on Miss T. She hasnt explained that she suffered any detriment and I 
understand she hasnt had any trouble opening another account. She has also received her 
closing balance along with a cheque for the £10,000 which was paid into her account. In the absence of any specific detriment, it wouldnt be fair for me to require Santander to pay 
Miss T compensation. So, it follows that I dont require Santander to do anything further to 
resolve Miss Ts complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman