DRN-1608342
The complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance ('PPI') policy in 2004 when she applied for a store card.
What happened
Mrs H complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 2004. It was added to her store 
card account which she applied for in the store. She said PPI was never mentioned so she 
didnt know it was added to her account. She was struggling with finances at the time, so she 
didnt need this additional expense.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs H's complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA produced 
a copy of Mrs H's store card application. I can see there was a tick box stating Yes, I would 
like to protect my account with account cover This box is signed on Mrs Hs application, 
but I noted she declined other offers on the form. So I think the form was diligently 
completed. She says the form was completed by the person in store. But as she signed the 
form, I can reasonably assume she checked the details were correct. So I think her signature 
means AXA probably made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she may not be able to remember this.
I noted Mrs H was eligible to buy PPI. The policy wasn't recommended so AXA had to make 
sure Mrs H received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong because she told us 
she had no savings and no sick pay. So the PPI could have been useful if she wasnt able to 
work or had lost her job. 
Mrs H said she was struggling financially at the time of the sale. But having decided she 
chose PPI, I still think she probably wanted this type of cover, so I dont think better 
information about the PPI cost and benefits would have put her off from taking out the cover.AXA should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). I 
don't know how they did this, but it does not appear that Mrs H was affected by the main 
exclusions. So - even if she'd been given a full list of the exclusions - I don't think it would 
have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and Mrs 
H was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am not going 
to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman