DRN-1622589
 
complaint
Mr W says The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op), who were trading at the time as 
Britannia Building Society, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2004. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ive explained my reasons below.
Ive first looked at whether The Co-op gained Mr Ws consent and whether it made clear to 
him that the policy was optional. To get the PPI Mr W had to agree to it by completing an 
application for it. The Co-op has provided a copy of the application form that Mr W 
completed and signed. And the application form was separate to the application for the 
mortgage and completed some time afterwards. So, on balance, I think Mr W chose to buy 
the PPI knowing he didnt have to. 
The Co-op didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W. This means that it didnt have to check if it 
was right for him. Instead it had to provide enough information for him to decide whether he 
wanted to take it out. 
Its possible the information The Co-op gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it seems he 
was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover. In saying that I have considered that Mr W told us he had a 
medical condition several years earlier but that he had no medical issues at the time of the 
sale. And Ive considered that Mr W had good sick pay initially, but that it dropped 
significantly after a number of months. So Mr W may have expected to struggle in that event. 
And Mr W told us he had no other means he could rely on such that he might have had to 
seek his parents help to make his mortgage repayments. This policy could have paid out for 
up to 12 months in that event, or if Mr W lost his job. So, I think the policy would have been 
useful to Mr W if something went wrong. So, I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put Mr W off taking 
out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman