DRN-3382106
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc failed to refund several transactions that he didnt
recognise and gave poor service when closing the account.
What happened
Mr S has explained that he went to an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) at a supermarket to
withdraw some money. He put his card into the ATM and entered his Personal Identification
Number (PIN) at which point the machine went blank and didnt return his card. Mr S said he
waited a few minutes at the ATM before telling the staff about his card. Because the
supermarket didnt operate the ATM, they advised Mr S to contact his bank. Mr S then drove
to his local TSB branch and reported his card was lost.
TSB noticed that there had been several withdrawals from the account which Mr S said he
didnt recognise. These had taken place just after Mr S had used the ATM. There were two
ATM withdrawals at a different supermarket and a purchase, all using the genuine card and
the PIN to authorise the transactions.
Mr S told TSB that when he used the ATM, he was alone and there was no one near him (to
observe the PIN being entered). The ATM didnt belong to TSB, which meant it was part of a
network that was operated by a different business who Ill refer to as J. TSB contacted J who
advised there was no record of any use at the supermarket ATM that Mr S had told them
about. J confirmed that if the PIN was entered, this would leave a record on their systems
and there was nothing recorded which they could see. They did confirm the other
withdrawals that Mr S had disputed.
Mr S continued to deny making the disputed transactions and that hed entered his PIN into
the supermarket ATM before it swallowed his card. Mr S asked TSB for a refund which they
declined to make. Mr S complained to TSB who looked into what had happened. TSB didnt
change their position on the disputed transactions but did recognise that Mr S had waited too
long before he was dealt with and paid £25 compensation. TSB reviewed their relationship
with Mr S and issued him with a notice that they were closing his account and gave him two
months to find a different bank.
Mr S then attempted to switch his account and experienced some difficulties. TSB realised a
third-party nominee that was authorised on the account was causing their system to reject
the switch of Mr Ss account. Once they removed this on their systems, the switch was
completed before his account was closed by TSB. They paid Mr S a further £75 for the
difficulties hed faced with the delay in switching his account.
Mr S remained unhappy with how TSB had dealt with his refund and brought his complaint to
our service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who
couldnt identify any use of the ATM at the supermarket or where Mr Ss PIN had been
compromised. He thought it was reasonable for TSB to hold Mr S liable for the transactions.
The issue of compensation wasnt considered by the investigator.
When Mr S wrote to the Financial Ombudsman  he also referred to the account switch
delays he experienced. This aspect of Mr Ss experience wasnt included in the complaint
form he signed, but as he raised it, Im going to consider it in this decision. I understand TSB
didnt appreciate Mr S had also complained about it, but the information already supplied by
TSB includes details relevant to this part of Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S disagreed and was helped by his representative who argued that Mr S was old and
may not have accurately recollected what happened at the ATM. She said it was possible
someone was watching him enter his PIN without him realising. Mr Ss rep also speculated
that the ATM may have had an unauthorised device fitted to it to steal peoples cards. It was
also explained that the pattern of transactions was suspicious and didnt follow how Mr S
normally used his account.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that TSB can hold Mr S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, TSB
have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make the
transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which TSB and Mr S agreed to use the card for transactions.
For example, when using the card and PIN together, TSB agree to accept that this is a
legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another approved user and make
the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the genuine card and the
correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given, and the disputed transactions were
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for TSB to hold Mr S
responsible, for example if the card was used without his permission.
Mr S denied making the transactions hes complained about and explained that hed lost his
card in an ATM earlier that day after entering his PIN. Hes explained that the ATM took his
card and there then followed a series of disputed transactions before he was able to cancel
the card at his branch.
When Mr S explained what happened to TSB, they contacted J straight away, J examined
the use of Mr Ss card for any activity at ATMs that formed part of their network  which
included the supermarket ATM Mr S had explained he lost his card in.
J couldnt see any activity apart from the two withdrawals Mr S had disputed and a balance
enquiry carried out after the withdrawals. TSB asked J if theyd have a record on their
system if just the PIN was entered into the ATM. J confirmed that as soon as the PIN is
entered, it registers on their system and theyd have a record of the card being used.
Further enquiries were made with the owner of the ATM ( a different company to J), but
unfortunately, they havent responded to requests from the Financial Ombudsman.
What that means here is that I have to make a finding based on the information and
evidence I do have and where thats missing or conflicting, I must reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened
in light of the available evidence.J didnt have any record of Mr S using the ATM, but hes adamant that he used it and has
been consistent with his testimony from the time he told TSB about it. Assuming that Mr S
did use the ATM without Js system recording it  there still remains the issue of how
someone other than him could have obtained the PIN. Mr Ss representative speculated that
Mr S might not have noticed someone observing him. Ive thought about that and referred to
the conversation Mr S had with TSB when he was reporting the loss to them. In it he was
asked by the call handler about anyone near him or who could have seen him enter his PIN.
Mr S was confident that he was alone and that no one was near him. I think Mr Ss
recollection soon after the event is likely to be more accurate than speculation from
someone who wasnt with him at the time. Of course, Mr S might not have spotted someone
who was trying to obtain his PIN, but I dont think thats likely as they would have to be quite
close to read the PIN.
Mr Ss representative thought that a device might be responsible for taking the card. Mr S
was asked about this at the time by TSB and didnt think there was anything suspicious
about the ATM. Its possible he might not have noticed such a device, but for that to be the
reason for capturing his card and PIN, then someone must have approached the
supermarket ATM after Mr S went into the store. They would then have removed his card
and obtained the PIN somehow  all during late morning when Im sure the supermarket
wouldnt have been particularly quiet. So , it seems a huge risk for someone to remove it at
that time and immediately use the card. Such devices are usually associated with mass card
fraud, rather than individual card fraud. I dont think that a device is how the card was
obtained by someone.
The card was then used to make two ATM withdrawals, then an account balance check,
before being used to buy something in a store. If the card was being used by another person
without Mr Ss permission  then I would expect it to be used in much the way it was  quick
transactions before it was cancelled and other attempts to use it the following day. But what I
find unusual is that Mr Ss account balance was quite healthy and had a lot more funds
available than was spent. Whoever had the card checked the balance so they would know
what was in it, but the next purchase was for a relatively small amount. I cant know what
was in their mind , but any thief would know the card was going to be cancelled and theyd
generally use it to its fullest extent before it was blocked, especially as they would realise Mr
S was present when it disappeared and would likely be telling his bank about it as soon as
possible. But that didnt happen here.
This is a finely balanced complaint and there are features of it that fit how Id expect a stolen
card to be used, but theres no plausible explanation for how the PIN and card could have
been obtained by unauthorised third parties. While Im sure Mr S will disagree with me, the
evidence that Ive considered leads me to the conclusion that, on the balance of
probabilities, it was more likely than not that Mr S authorised or allowed his card details to be
used to make the payments. So, taking everything into account, my current thinking is that I
think its fair and reasonable for TSB to hold Mr S responsible for these transactions.
Service delays
Mr S experienced delays getting through to TSB when he was dealing with them and this
was recognised with a compensation payment of £25. I recognise the frustration Mr S
experienced when he was trying to discuss his loss with TSB, but they explained the reason
was due to high demand and taking into account the pandemic  when everyone was
adjusting to the situation, I think the payment was reasonable and Im currently minded not
to ask TSB to increase this
.
Once TSB had completed a review of Mr Ss account, they advised him that it was to beclosed and gave him two months to arrange other banking facilities. Mr S then tried to switch
his account and experienced difficulties because there was an authorised nominee on the
account which prevented the switch taking place. Once the nominee was removed, the
switch was successful and happened before the two-month deadline was reached. Mr S was
able to maintain banking facilities but did experience some delays and was no doubt
frustrating.
I think there was some confusion within TSB about whether the account could be switched
when theyd already set it to be closed after the deadline ran out. TSB recognised theyd
caused Mr S further frustration and delay and made an additional payment of £75 to
recognise the poor service. I think they could have dealt with the account switch better than
they did, but I dont think it prevented Mr S from opening another bank account before this
one was closed. I think the compensation they paid was reasonable and my current thinking
is not to ask TSB to increase this.
I invited Mr S and TSB to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. TSB didnt respond and Mr S, via his 
representative wanted to further comment:
It was asked if CCTV could be collected from the various merchants who were 
involved in this complaint.
It was reiterated that these transactions were unusual for Mr S.
Mr Ss representative disagreed that a thief would take as much money as possible 
and sometimes would only carry out smaller transactions.
Can a goodwill gesture be made as the situation has left Mr S feeling vulnerable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as Ive not seen anything that would alter my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out 
in my provisional decision. But, Ill also address the additional points made by Mr Ss 
representative.
CCTV
I can understand why Mr S asked for CCTV, but as TSB considered that Mr S was 
responsible for these transactions, they were under no obligation to obtain it. The various 
venues linked to this complaint werent owned by TSB, so they wouldnt have had any rights 
to collect the CCTV, so I dont think it was unreasonable that TSB didnt collect it at the time. 
There would still be the hurdle of explaining how someone could have obtained the card and 
PIN- so even if it was observed that it was used by someone other than Mr S, hed likely still 
be liable.
Unusual level of transactions
Its been argued that these transactions were unusual, and I accept that the daily ATM limit 
was reached which wasnt the normal way for Mr S to use his card. But he did use it to 
withdraw £300 a few weeks before the disputed transactions took place. The use of the card 
to purchase an item was for less than £200 and I dont think this can be considered unusual. 
Overall, the use of the card that day was within the limits of the account and didnt trigger any unusual activity with TSB or use any form of borrowing. Because the transactions used 
the card and PIN, they werent deemed unusual and I dont think TSB should have done 
anything different. I dont think the pattern of transactions was sufficiently out of the ordinary 
to show it wasnt Mr S who was responsible for it.
Criminal Use
Mr Ss rep disagreed that the use of the card was unusual because it didnt exploit more of 
the available funds. Its true to say that not all criminals follow the same pattern when they 
steal a card, but the typical reason to commit such an offence is to gain cash or goods. The 
aspect I still find puzzling is the use of the card to make a purchase for only £200, when 
there was significantly more available in the account. It would have been a simple matter to 
make further purchases with the card for the same risk, but that didnt happen in this case.
Mr S
Im sorry to hear that Mr S has been left feeling vulnerable as a result of this, but as Ive 
already mentioned, my role is to make a decision based on the available evidence and what 
I think is likely to have happened where that evidence is conflicting or not available. As 
regards the goodwill gesture, I cant instruct TSB to make any award if I dont think they were 
responsible for the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman