DRN-3757794
The complaint
Ms S complains Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly declined her request to amend her home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms S had Sainsburys branded home insurance policy. Sainsburys acted as the 
intermediary, arranging the insurance. But the policy was provided by a separate insurance 
firm. In August 2022 Ms S called Sainsburys to arrange for a valuable watch to be added to 
her cover. Sainsburys said it was unable to do that.
Soon after Ms S, using a comparison site, found a policy, available through Sainsburys, that 
did cover the watch. In response to a complaint Sainsburys said the policys insurer was 
unable to offer cover for the watch. It said it had no control over the insurers decision. 
Sainsburys explained the policy Ms S found online offering cover for the watch was from a 
different insurer to hers. It said it would be happy to discuss a new policy with her and 
offered to waive a £25 fee if she wished to cancel the cover. 
Ms S wasnt happy with Sainsburys response so came to this service. Shes feels shes 
been treated unfairly. Our investigator didnt think Sainsburys had done anything wrong. 
Ms S didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me. 
Since our investigator assessed her complaint Ms S has raised issues with the sale of the 
policy by Sainsburys. I havent considered those points as its only fair to allow Sainsburys 
the opportunity to respond first. And for reasons given previously to Ms S, I havent 
considered her points about Sainsburys complaints process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require Sainsburys to do anything differently. 
Sainsburys acts an insurance intermediary. It doesnt provide cover itself, but instead 
arranges and offers policies provided by several different insurers. Ive seen documentation 
that satisfies me Ms S insurer declined her request to amend her policy. Ive also no reason 
to think Sainsburys would have been able to override that decision. 
The cover Ms S found, although also arranged by Sainsburys, was offered by a different 
insurer to that providing her existing policy. I can see after Ms S complained, Sainsburys 
offered to discuss the possibility of arranging alternative cover. It also said it would waive the 
policy cancellation fee if she did want to cancel the policy she had. 
It might have been good service provision for Sainsburys to have discussed the possibility of 
alternative cover during the initial call. I dont know if it did, but even if didnt its already done 
enough, by offering to waive the fee. So overall I cant say its treated her unfairly and Im not 
going to require it to pay any compensation or provide an apology.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman