DRN-2369428
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy Nationwide Building Society wont pay him the balance of two accounts he 
held, saying they were closed in 2006.
  
What happened
Mr L had funds deposited in a cash savings account and Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
Mr L approached Nationwide in 2019 and asked for the funds to be paid to him.  Nationwide 
told Mr L the accounts had been closed in 2006, in a branch, and the funds paid out by 
cheque. Due to the time that had passed, while it could tell the cheques had been cashed, it 
couldnt say where they were paid to.  
Mr L said he didnt close the accounts and he was out of the country when the closures took 
place. He complained to Nationwide, but it maintained its position.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
Nationwides records show the account being closed in branch and that, to close those 
accounts, proof of identity would have been required. So, he thought it likely the accounts 
had been correctly closed.  The investigator considered the travel information Mr L had 
provided but didnt think it definitively proved he was out of the country at the time. 
Mr L remained unhappy, so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has been able to show the accounts were closed and confirmed the cheques 
were cashed. Which is more information than we usually see on cases like this. Businesses 
dont have to retain information indefinitely and its common industry practice that records are 
usually only kept for around six years. Nationwide has confirmed this is what it does. So, 
while I appreciate its frustrating Nationwide no longer holds information about where the 
money went, I dont think this in itself means it still holds the funds. 
In cases like this, where the evidence about what happened is incomplete and inconclusive, 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened, based on the limited information available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Nationwide has confirmed that to close accounts, it requires some form of identification to be 
presented. Mr L has questioned this happened as he is certain he did not close the 
accounts; however, I have not seen anything which leads me to doubt Nationwide followed 
its usual process in this instance. 
Nationwide has also been able to show that Mr L regularly updated his address with it as he 
moved, including to an address outside of the country, which shows Mr L was actively 
monitoring his accounts and keeping up to date. Given that Mr L has a proven history of 
actively monitoring his accounts with Nationwide, I think its more likely than not that he 
wouldve noticed before now that these accounts had been closed, if he hadnt closed them 
himself.
Mr L has provided evidence of his travel in and out of different countries including the U.K. 
Ive considered this; however, Im not persuaded this conclusively shows Nationwide made 
an error in closing the accounts. Mr L has suggested it wasnt him that closed the accounts, 
however I cant say this is the case with any certainty.  
The role of this service is to look at what checks Nationwide has done to try and trace what 
happened. Im satisfied it has done all the checks it can. This doesnt mean I know where the 
money went, and after more than 13 years we most likely never will know. But Im satisfied 
Nationwide has done all it can. 
Having looked at everything Im satisfied Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably when 
searching their records to determine what happened when the accounts were closed. Its 
unfortunate, but not unexpected after 13 years, that Nationwide has been unable to say 
where the money went, but I dont think its made any errors in its actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman