DRN-4057233
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Revolut Ltd didnt do more to protect him when he was the victim of 
fraud. I should point out that the final two payments Mr B made in connection with this scam 
came after his Revolut account was migrated to Revolut Bank UAB in Lithuania. As I 
understand it, all parties agree that those final two payments fall outside of the jurisdiction of 
this service.
Background
In late 2020, Mr B was researching potential investment opportunities online. He found what 
he believed to be a legitimate investment firm and made contact. He carried out some basic 
checks to satisfy himself that he was dealing with a genuine firm. He made a small initial 
investment and watched its performance closely. He was later persuaded to invest more and 
transferred over 175,000 euros using his account with Revolut. Unfortunately, it transpired 
that Mr B hadnt been in contact with a genuine firm but a scammer.
He made these transfers to an account in his name. His funds were later transferred into the 
hands of the scammers. He complained to Revolut. It said that it didnt think it could be held 
liable for any of Mr Bs losses. It pointed out that, after it had processed the payment request 
from Mr B, his funds were in a different account that was also in his control. It was from that 
other account that his losses occurred and so Revolut cant be said to have been the cause 
of his losses.
Mr B wasnt happy with this response and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that Revolut ought to 
have recognised that the activity on Mr Bs account was unusual and out of character. It 
shouldnt have processed these payments without first taking some basic steps to satisfy 
itself that Mr B wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud.
However, she thought that, even if it had intervened and questioned them, it was extremely 
unlikely that theyd have uncovered that this was a scam. The communications with the 
scammer and the fake documentation that was provided to support it was too credible.
Mr B disagreed with the Investigators view. He said that Revolut ought to have known that 
he was sending money to a scammer and warned him before he made the transfers. He 
cited several codes of practice that set out guidance on the minimising of the risk of fraud.
Because Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to
me to consider and to come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued provisional findings on Mr Bs complaint on 2 March 2023. I wrote:
The starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his 
account is that Mr B is liable for payments hes authorised. However, taking into account 
the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Revolut should fairly and 
reasonably: 
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
With the benefit of hindsight, we now know that Mr B had been targeted by a 
manipulative and cynical scam. The question I must consider here is this: should Revolut 
have recognised that risk and taken preventative action, given the information that it had 
available at the time? I agree with the Investigators conclusion that it ought to have 
identified that there was a scam risk associated with these payments. By the point Mr B 
made a payment of 42,000 euros on 30 September 2020, a significant deviation from the 
normal pattern of account activity was evident.
I dont think it shouldve processed this payment without first contacting Mr B to satisfy 
itself that he wasnt at risk of fraud. That isnt the same as saying that it shouldve 
foreseen that Mr B had been targeted by fraudsters. From what Ive seen, theres no 
reason to believe that Revolut couldve known that Mr Bs funds were ultimately ending 
up in the hands of fraudsters, particularly given that the destination of these payments 
was an account under his control. There were several risk factors present in terms of the 
activity on his account and so, from its perspective, it shouldve judged that the risk of 
fraud was elevated and that this justified a proportionate intervention on its part.
The communications that Mr B had with the scammers were plausibly those of a 
legitimate investment company. The investment was supported by formal documentation 
and customer verification processes that had an air of credibility. However, the 
scammers told Mr B that they were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and 
shared a certificate with him to demonstrate that. However, by the time Mr B made his 
investment there was a warning on the FCA website saying that the company hed been 
contacted by were offering investment products in the UK without authorisation. If this 
had been drawn to Mr Bs attention, I think its highly unlikely that hed have gone ahead 
with the payments.
Ive also considered whether Mr B can be considered partially responsible for his losses 
here. The documentation he was provided by the scammer showed that any profits 
made on his investment would be split between him and the investment company 
according to a pre-determined formula. The documentation was clear that the 
performance of his investment was dependent on market conditions. For that reason, Im 
satisfied he wasnt persuade to invest by the promise of an unrealistic return. 
Furthermore, Mr B had some experience of investments and so was able to track the performance on the underlying assets himself and these were consistent with the data 
he was being given by the scammers. Overall, Im satisfied Mr B was the blameless and 
unwitting victim of a sophisticated investment scam. I dont think he can fairly be said to 
be partially responsible for his own losses.
Mr B accepted my provisional findings. Revolut disagreed. It noted that Id referred to Mr Bs 
investment experience and the fact that he was able to track the performance of what he 
believed were his investments by comparing the data given to him by the scammers with 
authentic financial indicators. Given that Mr B was a relatively experienced investor, it 
argued that he shouldve known to consult the FCA website. If he had done so, hed have 
found the warning. 
It argues that, either Mr B was careless and so should be considered partially responsible for 
his losses or the scam was so well executed that a Revolut employee couldnt reasonably be 
expected to have identified it.  However, I still think there was an asymmetry of knowledge 
between the parties here. Although Mr B clearly had more experience in investments than 
the average customer, Id expect Revolut to have greater familiarity with investment scams. 
It sees such scams with far greater frequency than the average customer and shouldve 
been aware of the guidance shared with industry by the FCA.
Im also mindful of the fact that Mr B isnt a UK national. He believed he was making an 
investment with a financial institution operating out of the UK. However, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that he would know much about how financial services are regulated in 
the UK or the role the regulator plays in protecting customers from potential fraud.
Overall, Im not persuaded to depart from the reasoning I set out in my provisional findings.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. If Mr B accepts my decision, 
Revolut Ltd should refund the following payments:
- €42,000 on 30 September 2020
- €40,250 on 15 October 2020
- €40,250 on 20 October 2020
I also considered whether interest should be added to this award. Typically, in a case like 
this one, Id look to put Mr B in the position he would likely be in if hed found an investment 
product suitable to his needs, rather than falling victim to a scam.
However, in this instance Ive not made any award for interest. It is not possible to say 
precisely what Mr B would have done with the money he lost. However, from the evidence 
Ive seen, he was clearly willing to take a significant risk with his capital. I dont think its 
possible to say what wouldve happened to any investments he may have made had not 
fallen victim to this fraud.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman