DRN-3789710
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse him after he fell victim to an 
investment scam.
Background
In March 2021, Mr D was the unfortunate victim of an investment scam. A friend of his had 
been investing his money with a company and recommended that Mr D do likewise. He 
contacted the company to enquire about setting up an account. He was told he could earn a 
return on his investment of around 30%. With the assistance of the scammers, Mr D created 
an account with a third-party cryptocurrency platform. He transferred money from his 
account with Lloyds to his account with this third-party. As I understand it, the cryptocurrency 
that was purchased with these funds was then transferred into the hands of the scammer.
Once he realised hed fallen victim to a scam, he notified Lloyds but it didnt agree to 
reimburse him. It said that it couldnt consider Mr Ds complaint under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. The third-party account to which Mr D made the 
payments was in his name and under his control. This meant it specifically wasnt covered. It 
pointed out that it had blocked the first large payment Mr D made in connection with the 
scam and warned him about the risks, but he was insistent that he wanted to go ahead with 
the payment.
Mr D was unhappy with that response and so he brought a complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She agreed with Lloyds that these types of 
transaction arent covered by the CRM Code. Nonetheless, Lloyds was expected to be on 
the lookout for out of character transactions where there was an increased risk of fraud. She 
noted that Lloyds had blocked the second payment Mr D made in connection with the scam 
and spoke to him about the potential risks associated with investing in cryptocurrency. She 
thought that the intervention by the bank was clear and proportionate, but Mr D was 
adamant that he wanted to go ahead with the payments. Overall, she didnt think Lloyds 
couldve done more in the circumstances. 
Mr D disagreed with the Investigators view. He said that Lloyds knew he was being 
scammed but failed to act upon it. It shouldve done more to protect him. Because he 
disagreed with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and come 
to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his 
account is that Mr D is liable for payments hes authorised. However, taking into account the 
law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In summary, Lloyds was expected to be on the lookout for payments that were out of 
character or had any other features indicative of a fraud risk. In this instance, it intervened 
when Mr D asked it to make a £5,000 payment. It wouldnt process the payment until it had 
spoken to him. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr D had with employees of Lloyds. He was asked whether he had 
set up his account with the third-party cryptocurrency platform himself and whether someone 
had approached him about the investment  both things that might have indicated a potential 
investment scam. The employee of the bank then went on to explain the significant risks 
associated with investing in cryptocurrency, including the risk of falling victim to a scam. 
Unfortunately, I dont think Lloyds could reasonably have been expect to do more in the 
circumstances. 
Mr D says that Lloyds knew this was a scam and so it shouldnt have processed the 
payment even if he asked it to do so. However, theres no evidence that Lloyds knew that 
this was a scam. I think the implied argument here is that it shouldve presumed that the 
payment was likely to be fraudulent because it was connected to cryptocurrency. 
It is true that there are clear risks associated with buying cryptocurrency. However, I dont 
think it follows that all transactions connected with such an investment are more likely than 
not connected with an attempted fraud or that individuals who want to invest their money in 
cryptocurrency shouldnt be free to do so. The information that Mr D volunteered during his 
call with Lloyds suggested that he was investing in cryptocurrency of his volition, not that 
hed been talked into it by a fraudulent investment company. 
It must also be borne in mind that any intervention on the part of the bank must be 
proportionate to the risks involved. Lloyds needs to strike a balance between monitoring 
accounts and preventing fraud without unduly hindering its customers use of their account. 
I recognise that my decision will be hugely disappointing to Mr D. It is now known with the 
benefit of hindsight that he had fallen victim to a scam, but given the information that was 
available to the Lloyds at the time, I dont think it made a mistake in processing these 
payments.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 James Kimmitt
Ombudsman