DRN-4379253
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) offered him renewal terms for his 
contents insurance policy, but as well as the price increasing, they also increased his 
excess. 
What happened
Mr G received his renewal for 2023 which showed his price had increased as well as his 
excess. Mr G says he understands how an increase in risk is linked to an increase in 
premium, but he feels its unfair Aviva also increased his excess to £500. So, Mr G 
complained about this as he felt Aviva were charging him twice for the same increase in risk. 
Aviva responded and explained, when they offer a renewal, theyll review the information 
they hold to determine what the terms will be. They said, as Mr G had two claims of a similar 
nature in the previous year, they were willing to offer a renewal, but with a £500 excess for 
any accidental damage. They explained this is the minimum increased excess theyll 
consider for multiple claims. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. He thought Aviva hadnt acted unfairly in 
increasing Mr Gs excess. Mr G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Mr G says Aviva claim the increase in his premium and excess is down to his claims history. 
Mr G explains, prior to this, he had seven years of no claims, and this did lead to a reduction 
in premium, so he acknowledges the link between claims history and premiums. He says the 
increase in the premium is reasonable, but he questions why this same principle doesnt 
apply to the excess  and why a claim free period doesnt lead to a reduction in the excess. 
Mr G believes Aviva are unfairly applying a principle which only benefits them  he says any 
increased risk is addressed by the increase in premium, so he feels its unfair for Aviva to 
benefit financially again by also increasing the excess. 
Ive looked at Mr Gs policy information, and this shows two similar types of claim were made 
in 2022. I can see, at the point of renewal, Aviva sent Mr G a letter to explain theyll be 
offering him a renewal but, due to the number of claims made in the previous three years, 
the cover was subject to a condition. It noted the condition as Excess (Specified Causes)  
contents and said, The excess under the CONTENTS SECTION is increased to £500.00 in 
respect of loss or damage caused by Accidental loss/Damage in and away from Home. 
Aviva have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain why this 
condition would apply to Mr Gs renewal. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied Mr Gs circumstances 
fit within the underwriting criteria provided by Aviva  so I cant say Aviva have acted 
unreasonably and Ive seen no evidence Mr G has been treated differently to other Aviva 
customers in his position. 
Mr G may feel this is unfair, but I think its important to mention here, its for a business to 
decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks - 
different insurers will apply different factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering a higher 
premium and excess has made an error compared to an insurer offering a cheaper premium 
and lower excess  but rather, it reflects the different approach theyve decided to take to 
risk. 
I can see Mr G paid a premium of £341.12 in 2022 but was then quoted a price of £453.86 in 
2023  this is around 33% more than what he paid the year before. Mr G accepts the price of 
a policy will be impacted by claims history, but hes concerned that Aviva are charging for 
the increased risk twice by also increasing his excess. I do acknowledge Mr Gs point, but I 
dont agree this amounts to double-charging. I accept the same factor  in this case, claims 
history  has been taken into account when deciding on the price and excess. But, in the 
case of the price, this has been affected by the rating factors and loadings applied as a 
result of the claims and other factors, and the impact on any No Claims Discount. The price 
reflects the risk presented to Aviva of insuring Mr Gs contents for another year. In the case 
of the excess, an increase relates to any future claims and is generally applied by an insurer 
as a way of protecting their exposure and reducing the amount theyll have to pay out should 
a claim be made. I will add, its not unusual or uncommon for an insurer to adopt this 
approach in circumstances where a customer fits within the scope of their underwriting 
criteria for claims made.    
Mr G has referred to legislation which he says supports his view that Aviva have acted 
unfairly. He refers to sections of The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999, 
which say a contractual term which hasnt been individually negotiated shall be regarded as 
unfair if it causes a significant imbalance in the parties rights, to the detriment of the 
consumer. And, a term will always be regarded as not being individually negotiated where it 
has been drafted in advance and a consumer hasnt been able to influence the substance of 
the term. I wish to reassure Mr G that Ive taken into account any relevant law, but ultimately 
Ive decided this complaint on whats fair and reasonable. I think its important to mention 
here, the increase in excess has been driven by Avivas underwriting criteria  and these 
terms set out an insurers risk appetite. So, its not unfair for an insurer to apply any of these 
terms without any negotiation with a consumer. 
Mr G says if the underwriting criteria is linked to the excess, then the absence of claims 
must, in order to make the terms legally enforceable, lead to a reduction in the excess in the 
same way the excess is increased when claims are made. I do understand Mr Gs point, but 
as mentioned above, its for an insurer to decide what risks theyre prepared to take, and 
part of this assessment involves the excess. Its for an insurer to decide how claims history 
affects their view of risk  and how this impacts the premium and excess. 
I acknowledge Mr G says he received a price reduction to his premium during periods where 
he made no claims, but that doesnt mean Aviva have acted unfairly if a reduction hasnt 
been applied to the excess during periods where he made no claims. 
I note Mr G believes the increases imposed by Aviva in this case isnt attributable to an 
increased risk, but in retaliation for Mr G being successful in a court action against Aviva in 
relation to the settlement being offered for one of his previous claims. I acknowledge Mr Gs 
point here, but Im not persuaded Aviva have acted unfairly here. Ive seen evidence which shows the increase in excess was triggered by Avivas underwriting criteria  something 
which would apply to all customers in Mr Gs position.     
I understand why Mr G has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive carefully 
considered the information from Aviva. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or treated    
Mr G unfairly. I wish to reassure Mr G Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, 
but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman