DRN-1640688
The complaint
Mr T says Banks of Scotland plc (trading at the time as Halifax) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr T applied for a credit card in a meeting at a branch in 1998 and Bank of Scotland says 
PPI was added to his account at around the same time.
Among other things, Mr T says he didnt knowingly agree to the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ts complaint didnt uphold it. Mr T disagrees and so his 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken it into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland needed to make it clear to Mr T he had a choice about PPI and get his 
agreement to it. Ive looked at a copy of Mr Ts credit card application. It included a section 
about PPI (as well as card protection) and there was a box to mark a box if Mr T wanted 
these services. The box for PPI has been marked with a cross. I think its likely Mr Ts 
application was marked with a cross because Bank of Scotland discussed Mr Ts insurance 
needs with him and he decided he wanted PPI  even though (understandably after so long) 
he doesnt remember this now. The cross on Mr Ts application has been pre-populated. But 
so has all the rest of the form. I think its likely this is because his adviser was completing it 
as they went along.
So from this I think its likely Mr T agreed to the PPI knowing he didnt have to. And Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Bank of Scotland placed unfair pressure on Mr T to take it out.
Bank of Scotland says it advised Mr T to take out the cover so it needed to be right for him.  I 
dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to make sure it was. But from the policy details 
Ive seen and from what Mr T says of his circumstances at the time, I think it was right for 
him. I say this because:
Mr T qualified for the cover. And he wasnt caught by any of the common exclusions 
and limitations we often see in PPI policies. 
Mr T was self-employed and hed only been in his role for around four months, when 
he applied for the PPI. Some PPI policies made it hard for self-employed people  
especially those who hadnt been in their role for long  to claim unemployment 
benefit. But the policy Mr T had didnt. So there was nothing to stop him claiming the 
full policy benefit if hed needed to.
I think the policy couldve been of use to Mr T. Being self-employed, he didnt get sick 
pay. And Mr T hasnt mentioned anything else  such as savings or other insurance 
policies  he couldve relied on if things got difficult. The PPI wouldve helped with  
Mr Ts card repayments for up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness 
or unemployment claim he made, which I think couldve given him some peace of 
mind if he couldnt work.
I havent seen anything to make me think Mr T couldnt afford the cover, which he 
could also have cancelled without penalty if he didnt want it.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr T, Bank of Scotland also had to give him 
information about the PPI that was clear, fair and not misleading  so he could make an 
informed choice about whether he wanted to buy it. As before, I dont know what steps Bank 
of Scotland took to do this, and it may well not have explained things as well as it shouldve. 
But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mr T agreed to the PPI knowing he didnt have to, and it 
was right for him. I think clearer information, if hit had been needed, would only have 
confirmed this to him and wouldnt have changed his decision to go ahead with it.
So I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold Mr Ts PPI policy.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it shouldve told Mr T about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt tell 
Mr T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman