DRN-3020834
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) caused him a loss as he 
was unable to access its online portal, through its digital application, to manage his pension 
for several weeks. 
What happened
Mr H holds a stakeholder pension, under a scheme with a former employer, with Aviva. He 
says that around 7 December 2020 he tried to access Avivas online portal, using the link in 
the MyAviva digital application, to review his fund choices. But he received an error message 
and was unable to gain access. Mr H has said this persisted for several days, so he 
complained to Aviva on 11 December 2020.
The issue was not immediately rectified, and Aviva indicated that Mr H was not the only 
affected customer.
On 7 January 2021 Aviva wrote to Mr H saying that it had been informed he had left the 
pension scheme by his former employer. The letter explained the different options available 
now that he had left the scheme. Mr H also raised a complaint with Aviva about this. He said 
his previous employer had agreed he could remain a scheme member and he was unhappy 
this had been changed without prior notice.
I understand Mr H was able to access Avivas online portal again from 19 January 2021. He 
still experienced issues doing so from the digital application for several weeks after this.
Mr H says, because he was unable to access the online portal, he wasnt able to allocate his 
pension savings to different funds as he intended. He said his attitude to risk had changed in 
November 2020, and hed changed how some of his pension savings had been allocated at 
that time. He says he had intended to make similar changes to approximately £100,000 that 
was held in a cash fund in December 2020 but hadnt been able to do so. And so, he felt 
Aviva had caused him a significant loss  as the funds he says hed likely have moved his 
savings to had increased in value.
Aviva acknowledged that Mr H hadnt been able to use the link in its digital application, or 
app, to access its online portal. And that this issue was still being looked into. But it said he 
could instead access the portal directly. It accepted its response to his concerns had not 
been as quick as it wouldve liked. And that some of the information it provided wasnt right  
in particular links it had sent him which didnt work (in reference to options available to him 
as a scheme leaver) or led him back to the same application that was inaccessible. 
To address this, Aviva said it would pay Mr H £350 for the upset caused. I understand there 
was a delay in this payment being made. So, Aviva in fact paid £400, to address that 
additional delay. Aviva didnt though agree to cover the potential losses as, although the 
online portal wasnt available through the digital application, Aviva said Mr H was still able to 
contact it by other means and give instructions, which he hadnt done.
In respect of Mr H being registered as having left the stakeholder pension scheme, Aviva 
said it had been given this information directly by his former employer. And Mr H would need 
to take the matter up with them.
Unhappy with this response, Mr H asked our service to consider the complaint. One of our 
Investigators looked into matters. He agreed that the issue of whether Mr H should be 
considered a scheme leaver would need to be taken up with the scheme itself  through his 
former employer. And although there had been issues with accessing the online portal, he 
didnt agree that this had meant Mr H could not have given Aviva instructions to change how 
his pension was invested. So, he didnt think Aviva needed to cover the potential loss Mr H 
had claimed. And he felt the £400 paid by Aviva was fair to address the upset caused by 
how it had handled Mr Hs concerns.
Mr H disagreed. He said he had been denied the opportunity to review information and 
transact because of Avivas errors. And he didnt agree he couldve done more to give 
instructions  noting there were significant delays and difficulty contacting Aviva by phone.
As Mr H did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr H was unable to access Avivas online portal to 
review his pension, through the link in its digital application. He has provided error messages 
showing that when he tried to do so he was told this service was unavailable. I understand 
Mr H is now able to access the online portal, so the issue of access is resolved.
Aviva has said this was because access via the digital application for the type of pension Mr 
H has is not supported. But he can access the portal directly  not using the digital 
application. Whatever the reason for the issue, looking at the responses from Aviva to the 
complaint, I think it couldve handled the matter better than it did. It doesnt appear that 
accessing the portal directly, outside of the digital application, was suggested as a solution 
for over a month. Aviva has also acknowledged some of the information it sent to Mr H to 
assist wasnt useful  as links were unavailable or took him back to the same process he 
was having difficulty with. 
Aviva offered £350 for the upset caused by how it handled matters. And in fact it paid a 
further £50 on top of this, because payment of this amount was delayed. Taking everything 
into account, I think that offer is fair. It is clear from the correspondence Mr H was sending to 
Aviva that he was frustrated. But at the same time Aviva needed to carry out an investigation 
into his complaint. And its response was provided within the timeframe allowed by the 
regulator.
Mr H has said that not being able to access the online portal prevented him from making 
changes to the funds his pension savings were invested in. He says he intended to move 
money from his cash funds to equity investments, similar to changes he had made the 
month before. And, as the funds he says he would likely have moved money to have 
increased in value, he believes Aviva has caused a loss.
I understand Mr Hs preference was to use the online portal to manage his pension. But this 
isnt the only option that was available to him. Aviva has confirmed it can provide information 
about fund performance and take instructions over the phone or in writing. And indeed the 
error messages Mr H has provided, which he received when unable to access the online portal, reminded him Aviva could provide details over the phone. 
Mr H has said that there were long wait times when calling Aviva which meant he could not 
realistically use that service to manage his pension. But Mr H has provided records of his 
calls to Aviva during the time that he was unable to access its online portal. And the only 
calls made seem to have been to complain, rather than to attempt to make the changes he 
said he intended to. So, it doesnt appear he attempted to manage his pension via the other 
available channels. In any event though, while I acknowledge long wait times may not have 
been ideal, I dont think this meant he was prevented from using that option.
Taking everything into account, while I understand Mr Hs preferred channel for managing 
his pension being unavailable wouldve been frustrating, I dont agree that this meant he was 
unable to make changes at all. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr H tried to use 
any of the other channels available to him. And so, I cant reasonably say that Aviva 
prevented him from doing so or require it to pay compensation for what might have 
happened if he had made changes.
Turning to the issue of Mr H being registered as having left the stakeholder pension scheme, 
Aviva has confirmed it was his former employer that stated he should be regarded as a 
leaver. So, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong acting on this instruction  given it 
came from the party responsible for the scheme. Mr H has said he had an agreement with 
his former employer that this would not happen. But that would be a matter for him to take up 
with them directly.
Taking all of this into account, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, 
for the reasons Ive explained, I dont require Aviva to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman