DRN-2214999
The complaint
Mr H has complained that TSB Bank plc increased his overdraft limit while he had entered a 
debt management plan.
What happened
Mr H entered into a debt management plan in 2016 where he agreed to repay what was 
affordable towards his outstanding overdraft. Mr H says that by June 2019 he had managed 
to repay most of his overdraft. However, he noticed that his statements indicated that TSB 
had reinstated his previous overdraft limit (£2,500).
Mr H is unhappy as he was still in a debt management plan and therefore, he feels this led to 
him using the overdraft facility again and but for their actions Mr H says he wouldnt have 
increased his debt. Therefore, he feels TSB acted irresponsibly 
TSB looked into Mr Hs concerns and issued a final response letter in January 2020. It said 
that although Mr Hs statements were showing that he had an overdraft limit of £2,500, this 
wasnt the case and Mr H wouldnt have been able to withdraw that amount. It went on to 
say that Mr Hs overdraft had been reducing over months and he wouldnt have been able to 
withdraw anything past the actual limit. But it refunded the interest applied to his account in 
June and July and offered Mr H £15 for the trouble it caused with the error on his 
statements. 
Mr H was unhappy with TSBs final response, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. To 
summarise he said based on the evidence provided, he couldnt be certain if TSB had 
actually increased the overdraft facility or if there had simply been an error printed on his 
statements. However, having reviewed the statement he said Mr H had been reducing his 
limit and keeping within his agreed limit as it reduced each month. But in May, June and July 
Mr Hs balance did slightly exceed the proposed overdraft limit. In August a further 
repayment plan was agreed and Mr H had an overdraft limit of £1,606, which wasn't much 
higher than where it should've been. Mr H continued to reduce his overdraft limit and TSB 
refunded the interest which had been applied in June and July. Therefore, the investigator 
didnt think TSB had acted unreasonably. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr Hs statements were showing an overdraft limit (£2,500) which had 
been agreed prior to Mr H entering into a debt management plan in 2016. However, TSB has 
said whilst his statement may have shown the higher overdraft limit, Mr H would have only 
been able to access to the reducing limit agreed with its Collections team. This agreement 
expired in April 2019. But Mr H disagrees. He says while he didnt utilise the full overdraft 
limit, he was able to withdraw more than he should have been able to under the agreement. 
TSB has also stated that after April 2019, there was no payment arrangement in place, and 
whilst Mr Hs debt management charity were trying to negotiate a further plan, it wasnt put in 
place until August 2019. Having reviewed the information on file, this seems to be consistent 
with the contact notes TSB has provided.  
So, with that in mind, I cant be certain whether Mr Hs overdraft limit was increased (and he 
would have been able to withdraw up to that limit) or whether he was allowed to withdraw 
further funds, as his debt management plan had expired and therefore no limit was in place. 
So, I have gone on to consider Mr Hs account activity during that period of time and the 
impact this had on him. 
I have reviewed Mr Hs statements and account activity. In March 2019 Mr Hs overdraft was 
still being utilised and on 22 March his overdraft balance was £1,510.69. In April, Mr H did 
reduce his this balance to £1,045.74, but this soon increased to £1,796.39 at the end of April 
2019.This was due to Mr H running the account as normal.
In May, June, and July Mr Hs balance did slightly exceed the proposed overdraft
Limit. But at this point no plan was in place, as the previous six-month plan had expired. 
Having reviewed the statements for that period of time I can see that Mr Hs overdraft 
balance went as high as £1,738, and as low as £34.41 before rising aging to £1,616.53 at 
the end of July 2019. During this time there were multiple payments coming in and out of the 
account, like you would expect with a main bank account. Therefore, Mr H was operating the 
account as normal rather than making regular monthly repayments to reduce the overdraft 
limit.  
With this in mind, I cant say there was a difference with how Mr H was operating his account 
before or after his overdraft limit appeared to increase. I appreciate Mr H did exceed his limit 
slightly, in these months, but this was due to the fact no payment plan was in place. And this 
is evidenced in the contact notes provided. As such, I cant say that TSBs actions resulted in 
Mr Hs account activity changing.
TSB has apologised for the error it had made on Mr Hs statements and offered Mr H £15. It 
also refunded interest applied for June and July and set up a further repayment plan in 
August 2019. I appreciate TSB did make an error. But when assessing the impact that error 
had on Mr H, I think TSB has done enough to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman