DRN-3867529
The complaint
Mr L complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt provide him with a suitable 
replacement car after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants a refund or his premiums and compensation.
What happened
Mr L had paid extra for guaranteed hire car plus cover when he took out his policy. When 
his car was taken for repairs following a claim, Mr L was unhappy with the courtesy car UKI offered him as he thought it wasnt of similar size to his own. When he complained, UKIs agent provided him with a smaller hatchback courtesy car which wasnt replaced. UKI said it had acted within the policys terms and conditions. But Mr L thought he had been mis-sold the extra. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought the 
first courtesy car offered was within 10% of the size of Mr Ls car. So he thought it was of a similar size and he couldnt see that UKI had mis-sold the policy extra. But he thought the hatchback was very different in size to Mr Ls car and he thought UKI should have replaced it. And so he thought UKI should pay Mr L £100 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
UKI replied that it had provided Mr L with a courtesy car that was of a similar size to his own 
and of a higher specification. Mr L replied that the internal dimensions of the first car offered were smaller than his cars, and so it wasnt similar. He said the second car offered was a hatchback when his car was a sedan, and it was much smaller.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has explained that his complaint isnt about financial reward, but about the principle 
involved. He thinks UKI didnt provide him with what he paid for and hes also implied that the product may have been mis-sold. 
Mr L explained that he bought the guaranteed hire car plus product because of a previous 
experience where the hire car provided was a small hatchback that didnt suit his needs. Unfortunately, I cant listen to the sales call as this hasnt been retained. But UKI made a record of it in its investigation. And I can see that the call handler told Mr L that he had standard hire car now, but he can change this to plus which will give him a similar physical size to his own instead of a hatchback.
The definitions that apply to Guaranteed Hire Car Plus are set out on page 22 in the policy 
booklet:  
Hire car  a similar physical size car or van to your car, if such size is available, that is 
supplied to you by the hire car company on a temporary basis. This car should keep you mobile but may not be the same as your car in terms of its size, type, value or status. 
Similar physical size  a hire car up to a Class F for vehicles with 5 seats
So I can see that there are limitations on the size of the replacement car due to availability 
and an upper limit. And I think the call handler told Mr L that he would receive a similar car to his own, rather than the small hatchback. And the policy terms were sent to Mr L and so he could have queried them further if he had wished to do so. So I cant say that the policy was mis-sold to him or that UKI needs to pay him any refund.
So Ive now looked to see whether UKI met the policy terms and conditions on this occasion. 
UKI told Mr L when he complained about the size of the first replacement car offered:
While your car is larger, its only by a small margin. 27cm longer, 9mm taller and 3,9 cm 
wider than the hire vehicle being offered.
Our claims team feel this does constitute a similar size, as well as being at the limit of the 
policy terms and conditions.
UKI wasnt able to provide a further definition of what constituted a Class F vehicle as it was 
a term used by the hire company. So I cant reasonably agree that the car provided was at the limit of the policy conditions. 
But our Investigator checked the external dimensions of the car and compared them with 
those of Mr Ls car. Mr L thought the internal dimensions should be compared, but they arent readily available. The Investigator found that the dimensions were within 10%. And so he thought UKI had offered Mr L a similar car and so met the terms and conditions of the policy. And Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable. 
But the car actually delivered by the hire company was a smaller hatchback. This car was 
outside the 10% margin, so I agree that it wasnt of a similar size to Mr Ls car. UKI has said this car was of a higher specification and was provided as a gesture of goodwill by the hire company. But Im satisfied that it didnt meet the policys definition as it was too dissimilar to Mr Ls car and I cant say what a Class F car would be. 
I can see that Mr L immediately complained and was promised a swap by the hire company, 
but this didnt eventuate. And UKI noted Mr Ls concern but didnt act to correct it by providing the car previously offered. 
So Mr L had ten days in hire that didnt suit his needs. And he was caused frustration and 
stress by having to press UKI to respond to his concerns. Our Investigator recommended that UKI should pay him £100 compensation for this trouble and upset. And Im satisfied that thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the level of impact this error had. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr L £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman