DRN-4006974
The complaint
Ms T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, incorrectly reported 
that she had credit card arrears to a credit reference agency. 
What happened
Ms T told us that, whilst trying to apply for a mortgage, she noted some missed payments 
had been reported on her credit file for a Barclays account she didnt recognise. Barclays 
had marked the account as closed and settled in September 2016, but it still reported missed 
payments between February 2018 and July 2021. Ms T contacted Barclays and it stopped 
reporting missed payments. However, the incorrect entries between February 2018 and July 
2021 remained on the credit file.
Ms T checked her credit file again in January 2022 and saw the incorrect information was 
still there. After some further correspondence between the parties, Barclays agreed to delete 
the disputed account from Ms Ts credit file in its entirety. The credit report was updated at 
some point in or around March 2022 and the account in question was removed.
Ms T said that because of Barclays incorrect reporting, she was blocked from accessing a 
mortgage for almost a year, and that she had been caused stress and upset in trying to 
resolve the issue. Ms T said she thought Barclays had acted maliciously and that she had 
been targeted because she had a non-English name.
In response, Barclays accepted that the account had been settled in full in September 2016 
following a payment plan. Barclays said it had agreed to remove the account from the credit 
file in full in January 2022, which was earlier than the usual six years. It said it had not 
treated Ms T differently because of her name.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said Barclays 
had reported incorrect information on Ms Ts credit file and noted it had taken nine months 
and three credit reference agency disputes before the incorrect data was removed. Our 
investigator said Ms T had been inconvenienced and thought Barclays should pay £350 to 
compensate her for its mistakes. He didnt think Ms T had been treated differently because 
of her name.
Ms T did not accept our investigators view. She said she had been locked out of high street 
mortgage rates because of the impact on her credit file and had to go to a specialist 
mortgage broker. She said she was charged mortgage broker fees of £2,194, rather than 
£394 shed have paid if her credit file did not have incorrect information. She thought she 
should be paid £5,000 in compensation.
Our investigator looked again at the complaint. He didnt think the credit report was the 
reason Ms T couldnt get a mortgage in July 2021 and that the difficulties at that time were 
because of Ms Ts deposit. He didnt think Barclays was responsible for the higher broker 
fees and his view remained that £350 was fair compensation.
Ms T did not accept our investigators further view. She told him that she thought that 
Barclays had taken so long to remove the incorrect information from her file because it 
wanted to digitally defame her reputation.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision. I asked our investigator to seek 
Barclays comments on Ms Ts allegation of digital defamation. Barclays said that whilst it 
could not identify the precise reason for the credit file data showing incorrect information, 
none of its policies or processes are based on the perceived nationality of a persons name.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I intended to uphold the complaint to the same 
extent as our investigator. I said: 
As our investigator said, Barclays reported information to a credit reference agency 
about Ms Ts credit card account that was incorrect and inaccurate. Ms T highlighted 
the issue to Barclays in or around July 2021, and the inaccurate information was not 
removed from Ms Ts credit file for around a further nine months. Barclays now 
accepts it made an error in this regard and so I have considered the impact of that 
error on Ms T.
I know Ms T feels that the root cause of Barclays reporting incorrect information to a 
credit reference agency was because she has what she describes as a non-English 
name. She also believes Barclays acted to digitally defame her.
It is not the role of this service to determine whether Ms T has been defamed  that 
would be a matter for a court to decide. The role of this service is to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. So, I have looked at 
whether Barclays treated Ms T unfairly or unreasonably in that regard.
As I said, Barclays accepts there was an error with the data it reported to the credit 
reference agency. But it appears to me most likely that the inaccurate reporting was 
an automated process with very little, if any, human interaction. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the mistake was caused by Barclays specifically targeting 
Ms T because of her name. In addition to that, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Barclays electronic systems were set up to treat people differently depending on 
their names. With all of this in mind, I cant say the cause of Barclays mistake was 
that it had targeted Ms T because of her name.
Ms T told us that she was blocked from accessing a mortgage for almost a year, that 
she was locked out of competitive interest rates and incurred higher broker fees 
because of the mistake made by Barclays.
Ive looked at whether Ms T was blocked from accessing a mortgage for almost a 
year. I havent seen any documentary evidence of a refusal or a reduced mortgage 
offer, but I understand Ms T said she was not offered the mortgage she wanted in or 
around July 2021.
Our investigator obtained evidence from a mortgage broker Ms T had contacted for 
assistance in January 2022. The broker said that Ms T had only been offered 
mortgages with an 85% loan to value (LTV), whereas Ms T was seeking a 95% LTV 
mortgage. Ms T did not agree with our investigators conclusion that it was her lack of 
deposit that prevented her from getting a mortgage at this time. She said she had 
been told that her poor credit file would have stopped her from being offered a loan 
with a higher LTV.
I can see that Ms T genuinely and honestly believes that Barclays mistakes did 
cause difficulties in obtaining a mortgage at that time. However, it is important for me 
to stress that the information Ms T can see on her credit file is not necessarily the 
same as that which would be seen by a potential lender.
Ive seen a copy of correspondence Ms T had with a third-party agency that provided 
her with a multi-agency credit report. On 13 January 2022, the third-party agency 
appears to have informed Ms T that the calendar view of her credit report which 
showed the inaccurate missed and late payments reported by Barclays was only 
visible to her. The third-party agency reiterated that the disputed account would have 
shown as closed in 2016.On that basis, if the calendar view showing missed and late payments was only 
visible to Ms T and the account closure date was showing as 2016, I cant say it is 
most likely that Barclays mistake caused Ms T to be locked out of applying for a 
mortgage for almost a year.
In considering the information before me, I cant reasonably say a potential lender 
would have had sight of the calendar view showing the incorrectly reported missed 
and late payment.
I havent been provided with any evidence to suggest that the lender Ms T applied to 
in or around July 2021 offered mortgages at that time with a higher LTV than 85%. I 
also note that there may have been a defaulted account with another financial 
business still showing on Ms Ts credit file in around July 2021. With all of this in 
mind, I cant say Barclays mistake was the reason why Ms T was not offered a 
mortgage with the LTV she was seeking in or around July 2021.
Ive also looked at whether Barclays caused Ms Ts later mortgage to be more 
expensive. I can see that our investigator obtained further evidence from Ms Ts 
mortgage broker in which it was stated that she obtained a mortgage with a 
mainstream lender at a competitive interest rate. On that basis, I cant reasonably 
find that Barclays mistake caused Ms Ts mortgage to be more expensive or locked 
her out of competitive mainstream lending rates.
Ive given some careful thought as to whether I can say Barclays caused Ms T to 
incur higher mortgage broker fees because of the inaccurate information it had 
reported. However, as I said above, I cant say its most likely that potential lenders 
would have seen the incorrectly reported missed and late payments. And it appears 
Ms T was made aware of this in January 2022 before she incurred the higher fees.
Im also aware that the incorrect information does not appear to have shown on Ms 
Ts credit reports with all credit reference agencies. With all of these things in mind, 
whilst I accept that Ms T did pay higher broker fees, as things stand, I cant say such 
fees were caused by Barclays.
That said, I can see Ms T was put to some trouble and inconvenience in disputing the 
misreported information with the credit reference agency and the third-party agency. 
This dispute lasted for a number of months at what I understand was a difficult time 
for Ms T.
Barclays mistake clearly caused Ms T some considerable upset. I am mindful that 
Barclays did eventually remove the entire [account] from Ms Ts credit [file], which 
meant it was deleted earlier than the six years for which an account would usually be 
reported.
Our investigator thought Barclays should pay £350 to compensate Ms T for its 
mistake. I know Ms T thought she should be paid considerably more, but I agree with 
our investigator that £350 is a fair and reasonable amount in all the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Barclays did not provide any further information or evidence for me to consider. Ms T sent a 
detailed response. In summary, she said:
Barclays had reported information to credit reference agencies about a credit card 
that did not exist; 
the credit card in question was closed in 2007, but false information about this card 
was reported on her credit files from 2016; 
the additional broker fees of £1,800 should be reimbursed to her and £350 was not 
sufficient compensation; and this service should advise her as to the next steps with regard to Barclays breaches 
of the Data Protection Act. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. Ill explain why 
below. 
First of all, I can see Ms T feels strongly that Barclays broke the law with regard to her data. 
She was seeking advice from this service as to how to progress such a matter. I need to 
make clear that this service is an independent and informal dispute resolution service. We 
do not act for either party to a complaint, nor do we advise either party. Similarly, it is not our 
role or even within our powers to enforce data protection laws. As I said in my provisional 
decision, it is our role to determine a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of 
a complaint. I can make an award for distress and inconvenience for any customer service 
failing in relation to Barclays provision of information regarding Ms T. That is what I looked 
at in my provisional decision. 
As to the issue of whether Ms Ts credit card account existed, I understand she had a credit 
card account with a third-party business. Barclays acquired that third-party business in 2011. 
Ive seen copies of Ms Ts credit card statements and it appears to me that Barclays took 
over her account from that third party in November 2011. I appreciate Ms T may not agree, 
but I am satisfied that its most likely the account with the third-party business ending 77 and 
the Barclays account ending 08 are effectively the same account. 
With that being so, I cannot agree with Ms T that the account that Barclays incorrectly 
reported ceased to exist in 2007. It appears to me that the final payment towards this 
account was made in 2016. 
I should make clear that when reporting to credit reference agencies, businesses do not 
report information about individual credit cards. Rather, information about the credit card 
account is reported. For example, I would not expect a business to set up a new account 
each time a new credit card is issued. I can see that Ms T told Barclays that her credit card 
with the third party business expired in 2007. But the account would still exist after a card 
itself has expired. A business may well issue a new credit card. I wouldnt expect an account 
to close because a card has expired, particularly where there is an outstanding balance. 
I know Ms T disagreed with the level of compensation I said I intended to tell Barclays to 
pay, particularly with regard to the higher broker fees she says she incurred. I have thought 
carefully about what Ms T said in that regard. But for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I am not persuaded that Barclays caused Ms T to incur these broker fees. I remain 
satisfied that requiring Barclays to pay £350 to Ms T is a fair way to settle this complaint
Putting things right
I require Barclays to pay £350 to Ms T to compensate her for the mistakes identified above. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint to the extent set out above and require Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard, to put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman