DRN-4175536
The complaint
Miss D has complained about the quality of a car she acquired using finance from Vauxhall 
Finance plc.
What happened
In June 2022, Miss D entered into a finance agreement with Vauxhall, for a used car. It was 
around seven years old, and had 60,400 miles on the clock. However, shes explained that 
she starting experiencing problems within the first two weeks, including: the clutch sticking to 
the floor; the accelerator not working; not being able to get above 40mph on the motorway; 
and faulty dashboard lights. 
Miss D took the car back to the supplying dealership, but it couldnt find a fault. She then 
obtained video evidence, but still no fault was found. Accordingly, she complained to 
Vauxhall, but it didnt uphold her complaint. She then brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. On balance, he was satisfied that 
theres an intermittent fault with the car. He was particularly persuaded by videos provided 
by Miss D. These show: the clutch pedal sticking to the floor, with Miss D lifting it back into 
the correct position with her foot; and Miss D pressing the accelerator pedal, and the revs 
increasing, but the speed remaining constant. He was also satisfied the car was faulty at the 
point of supply, given that the issues manifested so soon after supply.
Our investigator noted that Miss D dropped the car with the dealership at the beginning of 
September 2022, for some repairs unrelated to the clutch. But it wasnt until the end of 
March 2023 that she received the car back. In the time the dealership had the car, there 
were some further issues found, which were repaired. But still, the clutch issue wasnt 
replicated.
Our investigator recommended that Miss D be able to reject the car. He also noted it couldnt 
be used from 6 September 2022 to 31 March 2023. However, she did have a courtesy car, 
at no extra cost, from around the start of October 2022, until 10 February 2023.
Further, although Miss D has had use of the car from 23 June 2022 to 5 September 2022, 
the car wasnt preforming as it should have been. So, he thought a refund of ten per cent of 
her monthly repayments for this period was fair.
He was also satisfied that Miss D would likely incur costs for transferring her car insurance to 
another vehicle (or cancelling it), and for transferring her cherished plates  so she should 
fairly be refunded for these consequential losses, upon proof of them being incurred.
He was also persuaded that Miss D had suffered significant distress and inconvenience, and 
that £300 compensation would fairly reflect this.
The complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator, and for the same reasons he gave. From the 
video evidence provided, Im satisfied, on balance, that theres an intermittent fault with the 
clutch, which has not been rectified. The redress that our investigator proposed flows from 
this, and I agree with it.
Putting things right
To put things right, Vauxhall Finance plc should:
end the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay;
refund Miss Ds deposit of £1,435;
refund the monthly repayments (on a pro rata basis) as set out below:
- 23 June 2022 to 5 September 2022  10% of the monthly repayments (as there 
was a fault with the clutch, leading to impaired use/enjoyment);
- 10 February 2023 to 31 March 2023  full refund of the monthly repayments (as 
Miss D was without both the car and the courtesy car);
- 31 March to date of settlement -  10% of the monthly payments (as the issue 
with the clutch remains outstanding, leading to impaired use/enjoyment);
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts, from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement;
pay any cost incurred by Miss D for cancelling or transferring her insurance policy 
(upon the provision of proof of this);
pay the cost of Miss D transferring her cherished plates (upon the provision of proof 
of this);
pay £300 for the distress or inconvenience caused; and
remove any negative information regarding this agreement from Miss Ds credit file, 
and mark the agreement as settled.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require 
Vauxhall Finance plc to take the actions set out above, in the section headed Putting things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman