DRN-4175245
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
withdrew funding from a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were in dispute with their neighbours over an extension they were building to 
the side of their property. Surveyors had been appointed by both sides under the Party Wall 
Act (PWA), but this hadnt resolved things. Mr and Mrs S subsequently received a cease 
and desist notice from their neighbours solicitor asking them to stop work and remove the 
trespass. So they made a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
DAS instructed a panel firm of solicitors to act for Mr and Mrs S on the basis that trespass 
claims are covered by the policy. 
Two months later, DAS received an update from the panel firm advising that an addendum 
Party Wall Award had been granted to the neighbour, but they were appealing it for a higher 
Award with a further allegation of trespass. Mr and Mrs S wished to object the appeal. The 
panel firm asked for cover under the policy to instruct a barrister to draft the response to the 
appeal, the deadline for which was the following day. 
DAS said there was no cover under the policy for a dispute under the PWA, so it withdrew 
legal expenses funding from the claim. It also highlighted a potential exclusion for contracts 
entered into, explaining that any Award under the PWA is a contract Mr and Mrs S wouldve 
agreed to.
Mr and Mrs S raised a complaint. They said DAS was aware of the basis of their claim from 
the outset and theyd been left with one days notice to get alternative legal representation to 
comply with the Court deadline. 
DAS maintained its decision but offered £150 compensation for its failure to identify the 
claim wasnt covered sooner. Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this decision, so they brought 
their complaint to our service. And our Investigator recommended that compensation be 
increased to £300.
DAS accepted this, but Mr and Mrs S didnt. Theyve said:
The main basis of their claim is for trespass, which is covered by the policy. Although 
the litigation also involved a dispute over enclosure costs under the PWA, this was 
made clear at the outset of their claim.
They were left with insufficient time to find alternative representation. This led to them 
making a hasty decision to appoint a solicitor who subsequently couldnt support the 
claim. This resulted in unnecessary costs of £1,200.
They instructed a barrister, who wasnt able to defend the case properly and they 
were forced into mediation at a cost of £5,580. 
Mediation resulted in an increased Award being made in favour of the neighbour, 
which they believe wouldnt have happened had the panel firm remained instructed. 
The panel firm were of the opinion Mr and Mrs S would more likely than not win this 
case.
They were treated unfairly, which caused significant distress and inconvenience, that 
exacerbated their existing health problems.
The complaint was passed to me to decide and in May 2023, I issued the following 
provisional decision.
My provisional decision
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S legal expenses policy says it will cover property 
protection claims defined as:
What is covered:
We will cover the costs and expenses for your legal rights in a civil dispute relating to 
your principal home and holiday home, or personal possessions, that you own or are 
responsible for, following:
An event which causes physical damage to such material property, provided 
that the amount in dispute is more than £100;
A legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference with your use or 
enjoyment of your land, or some right over, or connection with it);
A trespass.
What we dont cover:
Any claim relating to the following:
A contract entered into by you.
Mr and Mrs S claim is to defend an allegation against them for trespass which, on the face 
of it, falls within the scope of cover available under the policy  as quoted above. 
It appears the neighbour has essentially shoehorned a claim for trespass into the Party Wall 
Award. I say this because it isnt the regular forum for this type of claim. Trespass isnt a 
regular feature of those kinds of Awards. Instead, they usually cover issues like making good 
any damage caused to each others property as a result of the initial work that resulted in the 
Award.
On that basis, I dont think its fair or reasonable that DAS withdrew cover for this claim for 
the reasons it did. Nor do I think it would be fair to apply the contract exclusion. I say this 
because had the neighbour pursued their claim in the regular way, it wouldve met the policy 
criteria. For this reason, it doesnt seem fair for Mr and Mrs S to be prevented from 
defending a claim that is essentially covered under the policy just because the manner in 
which it was brought was unusual.  However, even if I agreed with DAS decision to withdraw cover  which, for clarity, I dont  I 
dont think it was fair or reasonable to do so the day before a Court deadline leaving Mr and 
Mrs S claim in a vulnerable position. If it was their intention to do this, I wouldve expected 
DAS to fund the immediate work required on the case to ensure it caused no prejudice to the 
legal case. This might have included the immediate costs in helping Mr and Mrs S settle the 
claim. And I cant see that DAS did that.
Putting things right
Where a business has done something wrong, we would expect it to put the customer back 
in the position they wouldve been in had things been done correctly.
In this case, had DAS handled this claim correctly, its my opinion that legal expenses cover 
wouldnt have been withdrawn and Mr and Mrs S legal fees wouldve been met by the policy 
terms. Its for that reason I intend to award them a refund of the costs they incurred plus 
interest and compensation, as follows:
Barristers fees of £5,580 plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date Mr and 
Mrs S paid these fees to the date they are reimbursed by DAS
Compensation of £300 (minus the £150 initially offered by DAS if its already been 
paid) to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs S has suffered as a 
consequence of DAS actions
Im aware Mr and Mrs S have also incurred £1,200 in solicitors fees to a firm that wasnt 
able to take on their case. Its unclear why they were required to pay a fee if no work was 
undertaken on their behalf, and it may be something they need to take up with the solicitors 
directly. As such, Im not inclined to award the reimbursement of this fee  but if Mr and 
Mrs S want me to reconsider this, they will need to provide some more information.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs S has asked me to reconsider the redress on this complaint, for the following 
reasons:
The solicitors fees of £1,200 were incurred as a result of seeking advice on the 
merits of the case and to get some directional guidance on how to pursue the claim. 
The solicitors provided general advice and responded to Mr and Mrs S specific 
questions. But Mr and Mrs S were dissatisfied with their response as, despite all the 
evidence provided, the solicitors couldnt provide a view of the merits. As such, Mr 
and Mrs S didnt retain the solicitors and had no option but to attend the CMC without 
legal representation.
Mr and Mrs S spent a considerable amount of time representing themselves as 
litigants in person and have asked to be reimbursed for 80 hours of work.
The compensation of £300 is inadequate considering the distress and inconvenience 
theyve suffered as a result of DAS actions. 
Theyve incurred £22,180 in legal costs, disbursements, and settlement through 
mediation. Had DAS continued to fund the claim under the policy, Mr and Mrs S 
outlay wouldve been limited to the original, and much lower, Party Wall Award.DAS accepted my provisional decision. But Ive asked it to consider the points raised by Mr 
and Mrs S above, and it has provided the following comments:
The solicitors costs werent authorised by the policy, so there is no cover. In addition, 
the advice doesnt appear to be about the merits of the case and Mr and Mrs S didnt 
accept it in any event.
The policy would never have covered Mr and Mrs S own time spent on their case, 
and they wouldve had to spend a certain amount of time on this even if cover had 
remained in place.
There is no evidence to support that DAS withdrawing cover had any effect on the 
outcome or Mr and Mrs S decision to sign the Tomlin order, which presumably they 
did on the advice provided by their barrister. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about the points raised by both sides, Im awarding Mr and Mrs S their full 
legal costs and disbursements, plus interest and compensation. Ill explain why. 
Whilst I appreciate DAS comments regarding the solicitors costs of £1,200, Im 
satisfied these were incurred as a direct result of DAS withdrawing cover  which Ive 
already explained I think was unfair and unreasonable in the circumstances. Whilst 
Mr and Mrs S were dissatisfied with the advice and didnt retain the solicitors, they 
wouldnt have known that would be the case when instructing them, which was 
something they did in a hurry due to the actions of DAS. 
Mr and Mrs S had to represent themselves in their case management conference, 
but I think its most likely they wouldve had to attend this even if theyd had 
representation. And whilst they completed many tasks themselves rather than their 
barrister, they had an obligation to mitigate their losses. So Im not persuaded they 
should be reimbursed for their time spent on their own legal case. Instead, this is 
something Ive taken into account when awarding compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel the compensation awarded is inadequate for what 
went wrong here. But Ive made an award based on what I consider the impact was. 
And as Mr and Mrs S were able to secure legal representation for their case  and 
theyll be reimbursed the costs they incurred plus interest  the impact here is the 
distress and inconvenience of finding another solicitor with a very short deadline and 
attending the CMC as litigants in person. I think £300 fairly addresses this.
Mr and Mrs S want me to consider that their case concluded with them paying a 
higher Award to their neighbours, which they dont think they wouldve had to do had 
the panel solicitors remained instructed. But this is speculative. The neighbours were 
pursuing a higher Award and I have no way of knowing whether the case wouldve 
concluded differently had policy funding remained in place. 
Mr and Mrs S allude to incurring experts fees and a mediation fee, which are 
disbursements that the policy wouldve met had funding remained in place. So 
provided that Mr and Mrs S can supply invoices for these costs, Im satisfied they should be included within the redress of this complaint. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Im awarding the following:
Barristers fees of £5,580 plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date Mr and 
Mrs S paid these fees to the date they are reimbursed by DAS.
Solicitors fees of £1,200 plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date Mr and 
Mrs S paid these fees to the date they are reimbursed by DAS.
Disbursements of £5,400 for the experts fees and £540 for the mediation fee, plus 
8% simple interest per annum from the date Mr and Mrs S paid these fees to the date 
they are reimbursed by DAS, subject to supply of invoices.
Compensation of £300 (minus the £150 initially offered by DAS if its already been 
paid) to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs S has suffered as a 
consequence of DAS actions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited to settle the complaint as outlined above. This must be done 
within 28 days of Mr and Mrs S acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman