DRN-3138136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as L&G (Fairmead) unfairly 
declined their claim on their home insurance policy.
References to Mr D or Mrs D, will include the other.
What happened
A pedal cycle belonging to Mr Ds son was stolen. The theft was reported to the police.
Mr D made a claim to Fairmead on his home contents insurance policy for the stolen pedal 
cycle. 
Fairmead rejected the claim and said that it was not covered under their policy.
Mr D disagreed and said his home insurance policy states that any pedal cycle is covered up 
to £500. He contacted Fairmead to appeal its decision. Despite confirming someone would 
get back to him Fairmead didnt do so when it said it would, and Mr D had to contact it again 
a number of times.
When Fairmead finally replied to Mr D it said it did not change its decision and said that the 
pedal cycle was not covered under the terms of their policy. It said that only the pedal cycle 
specifically detailed in their policy was covered. 
Mr D maintained that he believed that only pedal cycles with a value of over £500 needed to 
be specified on their policy. Fairmead explained that a named pedal cycle was insured on 
his policy to a value of £740. £500 was only the policy limit for pedal cycles and for any other 
pedal cycles he would have needed to increase the specified sum insured. 
 
As Mr D was not happy with Fairmead, he brought his complaint to our service.
Mr D feels that Fairmead should pay his claim and waive the excess of £100 due to
the poor customer service received. 
Our investigator looked in to the case and thought the terms were not clear enough. She 
thought that Fairmead should pay Mr Ds claim for the pedal cycle, less the excess, and also 
pay him £100 compensation for the upset and delay in settling his claim.
As Fairmead are unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said 
After Mr D contacted Fairmead to discuss its rejection of his claim, I can see that it did not 
get back in touch as agreed. Over a period of a fortnight, Mr D had to call four times and also 
submitted an on-line complaint to try to progress his claim.
I understand that it will have been very frustrating that Fairmead did not get back to Mr D 
when they said they would. Fairmead have already acknowledged this was poor service and 
paid £25 in compensation.
Mr D originally took his policy out in 2013. He said that when he started the policy he was 
advised that he only needed to add pedal cycles with a value of over £500 to the policy. 
Fairmead did not conduct the original sale, this was done by a broker. 
Fairmead wrote to Mr D on 28 September 2020 regarding his home insurance which was 
due for renewal the following month. Within the letter it includes instruction on what he 
needed to do. It says:
Step 1 Check your documents and tell us if anything needs changing  and refers to the 
Policy schedule and Statement of fact documents. 
It further says in this step - If any information in these documents is incorrect you must let us 
know as any claim you make may be reduced or rejected, or in some circumstances it may 
make your policy invalid.  
Step 2 Check your cover still meets your needs  and specifically refers to the Insurance 
Product Information Document' and 'Information about Us, this policy and your needs 
and the Cost breakdown page. 
All of the documents referred to were also included within the letter.
These documents together form the terms and condiitions of insurance. They are not stand 
alone documents and are dependant on each other.
I reviewed all of these documents that Fairmead had said to check in thier letter to Mr D and 
found the following:
1. On the policy schedule page it clearly shows the total sum insured for pedal cycles is a 
total of £740, for one specific pedal cycle and for pedal cycles under £500 there is no 
cover. It states Pedal cycles worth £500 or under  None.
2. On the cost breakdown page it confirms that additional cover for pedal cycles is a total of 
£740.
3. In the information about us document it says Pedal Cycles - This additional option covers 
you for loss or damage up to 500 per pedal cycle in and away from your home, or 
more if you specify the individual pedal cycle. This cover is only available when you 
choose Contents. 
After reviewing all the policy documents together, I consider the cover amount and specific 
policy limits for pedal cycles is clear in Mr and Mrs Ds home insurance policy. The only 
pedal cycle covered is the one that is specifically listed, and the make is described.
I understand Mr Ds frustration in this matter. It must have been upsetting, after suffering the 
theft, and his son having to use public transport, to then learn that the pedal cycle would not 
be covered under his policy.
I believe that the responsibility for ensuring that adequate insurance cover was in place was 
that of Mr and Mrs D. Fairmead provided all the facts and the instruction about what to check 
in its renewal letter and included all the documents that required checking and so I think that 
Fairmead have fairly declined their claim for the stolen pedal cycle under the terms and 
conditions of their policy.
I agree with the investigator that Mr and Mrs D received poor service during the claim and so 
I think that Fairmead should pay a further £75 compensation in addition to the £25 paid so 
far.Therefore, I intend to partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr D responded to say
It was not clear to him that the original policy was administered by a broker and he 
stands by the fact that he was told only pedal cycles over £500 needed to be stated on 
the policy.
The words in the Information about us document made him believe that as he had taken 
additional cover he only had to add pedal cycles over £500.
That he has had this policy since 2013 and believed it still met his needs. He said the 
updated paperwork sent each year is quite comprehensive and leaves it difficult to read 
through every word.
Fairmead responded to say that upon review it considered the provisional decision was 
reasonable and fair and agreed the compensation increase is appropriate for the service 
issues highlighted.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After looking at the evidence, again along side Mr Ds response to my provisional decision,  I 
dont think he has said anything that requires me to change my decision.
I still consider the cover amount and specific policy limits for pedal cycles is clear in his 
home insurance policy. All of the policy documents together form the terms and conditions of 
insurance. 
Although I understand Mr D will be disappointed I think it is clear that the only pedal cycle 
covered in his policy is the one that is specifically listed and the make is described. I do not 
think that Fairmead have unfairly declined his claim on his home insurance policy for the 
stolen pedal cycle. 
I agree with the investigator that Mr and Mrs D received poor service during the claim. Mr D 
said that he found it stressful to chase Fairmead repeatedly and that it had taken up quite a 
bit of his time. Fairmead have accepted that there were service issues and so I require 
Fairmead to pay a further £75 compensation in addition to the £25 paid so far. I think that 
this is fair in this case.
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed I maintain my provisional decision and I partially uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I partially uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as L&G to pay a further £75 compensation for 
poor communication during the claim.Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as L&G must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs D accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman