DRN-1746016
 
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, wont refund a cash 
withdrawal he says he didnt make. 
What happened
Mr Z went to an ATM cash machine near his home to withdraw cash. He said when he 
approached the machine there was no one around. However, after hed inserted his card 
into the machine, two people  a man and a woman  arrived and stood behind him. 
He said the man was immediately behind him, looking over his shoulder and giving him 
instructions on how to use the machine. He told the man he knew how to use the machine. 
As he was about to select cash withdrawal on the screen, the man reached over him, 
pressed cancel and took his card. 
Mr Z said he followed the man to try to get his card back. A few yards away from the ATM, 
the man gave him his card back. Whilst he was trying to get his card back, the woman was 
still at the ATM having an argument with another customer about jumping the queue.
Mr Z said he went back to the same ATM to withdraw £20 but the transaction was declined. 
He used a different card to withdraw cash and left.
Later that evening, he logged in to his mobile bank app and saw that £500 cash had been 
withdrawn. He called the bank to stop his card and report the unauthorised transactions. 
Mr Z expected Halifax to refund the £500 but it decided not to refund him. It said his card 
and PIN had been used to make the disputed cash withdrawal and that this occurred within a 
minute of the unsuccessful attempt to withdraw £20. It also said there were no balance 
enquiries, incorrect PIN attempts or further attempts to use your debit card. Therefore, it 
concluded that the other man couldnt have made the disputed transaction.
Mr Z wasnt happy with the banks decision so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
said he thought his card had been cloned.
An investigator looked into his complaint but she didnt uphold it. In summary, she felt unable 
to conclude that the man, or any other third party, had carried out the disputed cash 
withdrawal because:
the cash withdrawal was made with Mr Zs card and PIN
the cash withdrawal was made within a minute of the failed cash withdrawal for £20
the actual chip in his card was read by the machine and to date there is no reliable 
evidence that the chip can be cloned.
Mr Z disagreed with the investigators assessment. He said Halifax should have obtained 
CCTV footage from the ATM. This would have shown the man who took his card and 
wouldve made a difference to the outcome. Mr Z has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr Z  and Halifax have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr Z that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
In short, Halifax is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). Mr Z says he didnt make the cash withdrawal of £500 and is seeking a refund of that 
amount. So my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think Mr Z 
authorised the cash withdrawal.
Having reviewed the banks technical reports, Im satisfied the genuine card and PIN were 
used for the disputed cash withdrawal. 
I accept its possible that a third party might have seen him enter his PIN at the ATM and 
distracted him but that isnt Mr Zs evidence. He said he hadnt selected the option to 
withdraw cash. He said the man at the ATM pressed cancel before he could request a 
service. Mr Z hasnt provided any more details of how the man was able to do this, or start 
the process again for a £500 withdrawal, without him noticing. His evidence is that the man 
took his card but didnt use it  he didnt enter his PIN or select the cash withdrawal option. 
Theres no evidence that the man had any opportunity to use Mr Zs card or a cloned card. 
Even Mr Z said the man gave him back his card. And, as the investigator explained, it isnt 
possible to clone the chip in a card.
Furthermore, Im afraid Mr Zs version of events does not match up with the banks technical 
reports, which show that the disputed cash withdrawal took place at 10.47 am and the failed 
£20 cash withdrawal took place at the same machine at 10.48am. The two transactions were 
just a minute apart. Yet, in the space of that minute, Mr Z said he left the ATM, followed the 
man to get his card back and returned to the ATM, where it seems there was another 
customer waiting to use it.
It is always useful to have CCTV footage. And I do expect the bank to use its best 
endeavours to obtain it. We know that the police often dont investigate scams.  They refer 
consumers to Action Fraud instead. I have not yet seen a case where Action Fraud obtained 
any CCTV footage. In fact, the bank is best placed to ask for it in scams cases. In this case, 
at the very least, it would have confirmed or negated Mr Zs account that he was approached 
by a man and woman while at the ATM. It goes to credibility, which is often at issue in cases 
such as this one.
However, I also have to ask if it would have made a difference. The bank and our 
investigator said CCTV footage couldnt show whether Mr Z knew the man or whether he was complicit with what went on. This is largely true but not always. I think if this were a 
diversion scam then CCTV footage might show it. But even if this were a diversion scam, 
where Mr Z had selected a cash withdrawal (something he denies doing), the money was 
dispensed and the woman picked up the cash while he was pursing the man,  then Mr Z is 
still liable for having authorised the transaction. It becomes a theft, much as if hed been 
robbed, and a police matter. The CCTV footage could make a difference in cases where the 
card has been stolen and used by the third party. But this isnt what happened here.
On balance, Im afraid I think its more likely that Mr Z authorised the disputed cash 
withdrawal. This doesnt rule out the possibility that one of the two people at the ATM stole 
the cash by diverting his attention. However, that would be a case of ordinary theft, not an 
unauthorised transaction. 
I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Halifax to refuse a refund of the disputed 
transaction.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr Z but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman