DRN-1874620
The complaint
M is a limited company. Its complaint is about the actions of Santander UK Plc after a 
fraudster attempted to gain access to the companys bank accounts.
What happened
On 10 July 2019, someone pretending to be Ms director phoned Santander, attempting to 
gain access to the companys accounts. He passed the security questions and was told the 
balance of the companys current account and deposit account, but the call ended abruptly 
when the line was broken. The bank representative, intending to continue the call, phoned 
Ms director using the number held on the banks records. But it quickly became clear that 
the first call had been made by someone else. The bank put a block on the accounts 
because of the suspicious activity.
The next day, Ms director (whom I shall call Mr K) tried to use the companys online 
banking, but he wasn't able to log in. He phoned the bank and was told he needed to go to 
the nearest branch to confirm his identity, then the block could be removed. He went to a 
branch and the block was removed the same day.
On 12 July, M made a substantial genuine transfer. The banks fraud auto-detection system 
blocked the accounts the following day, but this block was quickly removed.
Mr K was unhappy with the way the banks staff dealt with the matter from the outset, both 
on the phone and in the branch. He was also unhappy with the banks security systems. He 
complained to the bank, saying the staff had been incompetent. Mr K complained in 
particular that a member of staff asked him if he needed money while his accounts 
were blocked, when in fact she meant cash. He also said the staff asked him about credits 
into the account when he thought it should have been interested to know about debits first. 
And at one point he was asked about a debit transaction which in fact was a transfer from 
one of Ms accounts to another.
Mr K said hed lost days of his time which should have been devoted to the business, and 
wanted the bank to compensate M for the inconvenience. He also said hed had to move the 
balance of the deposit account to a current account which incurred transaction costs and lost 
interest.
In response to Ms complaint, Santander acknowledged that in its initial call to Mr K on 10 
July, the representative hadn't followed the correct procedure  she hadn't asked Mr K to call 
the bank on the number on the back of the debit card. The bank offered to pay £50 
compensation for inconvenience. Unhappy with the banks response, Mr K referred Ms 
complaint to this service. 
The bank later increased its compensation offer to £250.
In November 2019, there was a further attempt by a fraudster to gain access to the 
accounts. Ms complaint to this service concerns only the banks actions regarding the July attempt. My decision is therefore only about the events of July 2019 and the banks actions 
resulting from them. 
Our investigator considered the evidence and arguments from both parties and concluded 
that Santanders offer of £250 was fair and reasonable. He gave these reasons, in summary:
When the bank representative first called Mr K on 10 July, she should have given him 
the correct instructions to confirm it was the bank calling to tell him about the 
attempted fraud and the account block. This contributed to the general level of 
anxiety, and it was a distraction from running the business and an inconvenience. In 
the investigators view, the banks offer of £250 compensation would be fair and 
reasonable compensation.
In the investigators view, it wasn't unreasonable for the bank representative to have 
used the terms money and cash interchangeably. This offer of temporary financial 
help is usually made for blocked personal accounts, to avoid hardship. But the 
investigator didn't think making the offer to M, for a business account, contributed to 
any delays or inconvenience for M.
Part of the banks procedure when establishing the identity of a customer is to ask 
about transactions on the account  both credits and debits. The investigator didn't 
see this as a cause of inconvenience.
The first account block clearly caused business difficulties for M. But the block was 
intended to protect Ms funds, after the attempted access by the fraudster. It was in 
line with the banks protocol and seems to have been a reasonable and sensible 
step. The block didn't remain in place for an unreasonable time. The investigator 
didn't think the bank acted wrongly in blocking the accounts.
The second account block was brief and doesn't appear to have caused any 
inconvenience.
Mr K transferred funds from the deposit account to the current account then moved it 
elsewhere. He did this because he felt the account details had been compromised. 
But the bank did nothing to increase the chance of a fraud taking place, so the 
investigator couldn't agree that Santander caused Mr K to move the funds.
 
M didn't agree the investigators conclusions. On the companys behalf, Mr K said £250 
would be a gross underestimation of the distress and immense waste of time this case had 
caused. He felt £1,000 would be the minimum he would accept for Santanders multiple 
failures. Mr K also said the bank had caused anxiety and stress by revealing the balance on 
the companys accounts to a fraudster.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
First, I should note that Ms accounts suffered no financial loss to the fraudster. 
I agree that in the first call to Mr K on 10 July 2019, the bank didnt follow its own 
procedures, and this caused confusion and inconvenience. But things were cleared up the 
following day and I dont think any significant time was lost as a result. The bank has offered 
£250 in compensation for the error and I think thats fair and reasonable. The attempted fraud caused considerable worry and inconvenience for M. But that was the 
fraudsters fault, not the banks. It wouldn't be fair or reasonable for me to hold the bank 
responsible for the anxiety and difficulties caused by the fraudsters actions.
I think it was reasonable for Santander to block Ms accounts when the bank realised an 
unauthorised person had attempted to gain access to the companys funds. It did this to 
keep Ms money safe. When Mr K established his identity, the accounts were promptly made 
available for M to use.
Ive listened to recordings of the calls between Mr K and the bank. Its common ground that 
things went wrong in the first call. But in the others, in my view, the banks representatives 
were helpful, patient, kind and efficient, and did their best in difficult circumstances to move 
matters forward and to explain them to Mr K.
I agree with the investigator that it wasn't unreasonable of the bank to use the terms money 
and cash to mean the same thing. In the context of the conversation at the time, I think the 
meaning was clear and the offer was well-intentioned. It caused no inconvenience to M.
I can understand why Mr K moved funds to another account in fear of further attempts at 
fraud. But this wasn't the banks fault. No money had been lost, and the bank had taken 
action to prevent a successful fraud. So I cant fairly or reasonably ask the bank to pay M for 
any lost interest or transaction fees.
Mr K is also concerned that the companys bank balances were revealed. He said the 
protection of the funds is just a small concern compared with the potential security risk to 
himself and his family. But the fraudster got as far as he did because he was able to provide 
detailed confidential information about Ms financial affairs and the account signatories  
enough to pass the security questions and satisfy the bank that he was calling on behalf of 
M. I dont know how the fraudster came to possess this information, but I havent seen 
anything to suggest it was the banks fault. I appreciate it must be unnerving for Mr K to 
know that someone had obtained such confidential information about Ms affairs, then used it 
to gain even more, but I cant reasonably say the bank did anything wrong in giving a 
balance to a caller who passed its security questions.
My final decision
The bank has already made an offer to settle this complaint. I think that offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £250 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman