DRN-2289466
The complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1997 when she took 
out a store card.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept
responsibility for the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will disappoint her, so Ill explain why.
In 1997 Mrs M applied for a store card by completing an application form in a store. PPI
was added to her account. AXA had to make it clear that the policy was optional and gain 
Mrs Ms consent before adding it to her card. Mrs M has told us she signed to take 
advantage of an in-store discount and PPI was not discussed.
I cant be certain what was said at the time Mrs M applied for her card and PPI, but I have 
seen a copy of Mrs Ms store card application. I can see there was a separate section on the 
application for PPI and the option to take the policy has been selected. Mrs M also signed 
the application form in agreement with the selections that had been made on it. So, taking all 
this into consideration, I think Mrs M knew the policy was optional and chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs M, so it didnt have to check the policy was suitable
for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information about the policy so she could 
decide if she wanted to take it out.
Mrs M says she would have received generous sick pay if she was away from work due to 
illness, could have relied on family, and her husband had taken out other policies that would 
have helped protect her payments. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to any other 
protection Mrs M may have had. It would also have paid out in addition to Mrs Ms sick pay, 
and for longer than she would have received full pay. And while Mrs Ms family would have 
wanted to help, this offer of help would have been dependent on their circumstances at the 
time, which could have changed, so I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. 
So, I think it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was
affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking
out the cover.
Which means AXA doesnt have to pay back to Mrs M the cost of the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman