DRN-2872054
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (CapOne) suspended his credit card as he 
was in persistent debt.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card from CapOne since 2003. In 2020 the limit was £4000. In September 
2018, March 2020 and September 2020, he received persistent debt letters from CapOne. 
These suggested he should increase his payments. In October 2020, his card was 
suspended. 
Mr B complained. He said the letter in March 2020 recommended he reduce the amount he 
was paying  he calculated this to be £186 per month between November 2019 and April 
2020. And CapOnes letter recommended he pay either £155 per month or £181 per month 
(depending on the possible term of repayment). So  CapOne stood to make more interest 
from his debt than if he continued to pay the amounts he was doing. And  it was 
unreasonable for them to suspend his card on that basis. He was now in a difficult position - 
as he didnt have a working credit card. Mr B also considered that what CapOne did was in 
contravention of the Consumer Credit Act and commented also on the validity of the FCAs 
persistent debt scheme. He wrote to his MP about what had happened.
CapOne said Mr B hadnt done anything wrong. But over the pervious 36 months, hed paid 
more in interest and fees than the amounts paid in to reduce his debt. This meant he was 
only reducing his debt very slowly. Under the FCA rules, they wanted to set up a repayment 
plan for him, so he would clear his balance faster and this would cost him less interest than if 
he made the minimum payments. They first wrote to Mr B in September 2018, then in June 
2019 and then in March 2020, setting out payment options. They said the letters said they 
could discuss other options which wouldve enabled him to keep the use of the card. A 
reminder was sent to him in September 2020, but he didnt get in touch  so his card was 
suspended. If he wished to get in touch now, theyd be happy to review the suspension.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said CapOne acted reasonably. She said 
theyd followed the persistent debt rules and guidance set out by the FCA. CapOne had 
given Mr B options and warned him in advance that his card might be suspended.
Mr B asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what happened here. I think that CapOne acted fairly, but I want to set out my 
findings as I hope that Mr B might find this helpful. I think there may have been some 
misunderstanding about the persistent debt communications that were sent by CapOne  so 
I want to clarify this.
At the outset, let me say that this service exists to resolve individual disputes between 
customers and financial businesses  in this case, Mr B and CapOne. We are not the 
regulators of CapOne  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  so Im not going to 
comment on the validity of the persistent debt scheme. Thats for the FCA and if Mr B wishes 
to challenge it, then he must approach them. But  the FCA have set out the persistent debt 
rules, and CapOne, which is regulated by the FCA, must follow them. Its our role to ensure 
theyve done so fairly and reasonably.
The FCAs persistent debt rules are set out on the FCA handbook, CONC 6.7.27. They say 
(in summary) that firms such as CapOne must look at the accounts of borrowers to ensure 
theyre reducing their debts and therefore, not paying too much interest. And so  where a 
borrower is paying more in interest and fees than they are paying towards reducing the 
amount of the debt, then a repayment plan should be put in place to deal with this. And, 
where this cant be agreed, the card may be suspended  to stop customers from increasing 
their debts further. The intention of the rules is to ensure that customers are protected from 
paying too much interest  and in some cases, never actually repaying their debts. This 
typically happens if customers only pay the minimum amount each month, while still 
spending on their cards. 
The letter sent to Mr B in March 2020 said that over the previous 36 months, hed paid more 
in interest and fees than hed paid towards the amount of the debt. Ive checked this and for 
clarity set out what happened in the three years before CapOne wrote to Mr B  and this 
shows that in two years, Mr Bs payments were almost the same as interest, fees and 
spending; and in one year (to November 2019), interest, fees and spending were slightly 
more than his payments:
Period Interest and fees 
paidSpending Payments to the 
account Net Money In 
(Out)
Nov 2018-Nov 
2019£1345 £989 £2308 (£26)
Nov 2017-Nov 
2018£1337 £1031 £2373 £5
Nov 2016-Nov 
2017£1237 £1288 £2629 £114
So  Mr Bs debt wasnt reducing over the three-year period  and thats what the FCA rules 
are intended to avoid.
CapOne proposed payments were either £155.26 per month  which they said would pay off 
the debt in 47 months; or £181.74 per month  which would pay off the debt in 35 months. 
Mr B said these were actually less than he was paying  and I can see that was the case. He 
says he was paying around £186 per month between November 2019 and April 2020. And 
looking at his statements, he did this consistently before that time also. But  the overall 
point is that his debt wasnt being reduced and he was therefore likely to pay more interest 
than if he could make larger payments.
I can see that CapOne  in their letters to Mr B  offered to discuss matters and come to an 
arrangement that would work for him. They said in their letter dated March 2020 We need 
you to contact us by 13 April 2020 to let us know which of the following Repayment Plan 
options you'd like to take. If none of these options are affordable. we can still help you and 
we still need you to get in touch  But unfortunately, it appears that an alternative plan 
couldnt be agreed when Mr B did contact CapOne  so they suspended his card. They had 
let him know this might happen as the letter in March 2020 said, If we don't hear from you 
by 13 April 2020, under the new rules, we will have to suspend your card. Because of the pandemic, the timescales were pushed out to October 2020. A further letter was sent to Mr B 
in September 2020 which said, Under the new rules, if we don't hear from you by 15 
October 2020, we'll have to suspend your card. So  CapOne were clear in their 
communications  that Mr Bs card would be suspended if payments couldnt be agreed.
Mr B has said to us that he considered that CapOne were changing his revolving credit 
facility to a fixed loan. I dont think thats the case  he would still have been able to retain 
his card and revolve the balance by making purchases and payments  CapOne were just 
trying to help Mr B by asking him to agree to regular, higher payments.
So, in conclusion, I dont think CapOne acted unreasonably. I hope Mr B understands my 
reasoning  but I wont be asking CapOne to do anymore here. Theyve suggested that Mr B 
now gets in touch with them to discuss a payment plan which works for both sides  and so 
they can then reinstate his card. I hope he feels able to do this. 
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman