The complaint
Mr D complains that HFC Bank Limited mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
alongside a credit card.
What happened
In October 1994, Mr D applied for a credit card, by completing and returning an application 
form by post. At the same time, HFC sold him a PPI policy. The cost of the policy was 
charged to the account, so Mr D would repay this extra charge with interest in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. Mr D thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld.
Mr D didn't agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first thought about whether Mr D knew he was buying the PPI. Mr D says that during the 
application nothing was highlighted or mentioned about PPI and he had no idea he'd taken 
this out. He also says HFC just added it on to the monthly statement without explaining what 
it was for. So I've thought about this alongside the other information I have about the sale.
Because of the time that's passed, HFC doesn't have a copy of the original application form 
for Mr D's card. But I don't think that's unreasonable, given the sale took place in 1994, over 
25 years ago - and given that Mr D's card account closed in 2007. I wouldn't expect HFC to 
hold this paperwork indefinitely. I have seen examples of application forms used around this 
time, though, which I think are likely to reflect what Mr D would have seen at the time. I see 
that to apply for PPI Mr D needed to tick a box labelled "Protect your Account with Payment 
Protection Insurance (We strongly recommend that you tick this box and take this cover)". 
I'm also mindful that this sale took place some time ago - and memories can and do fade 
with time. So although Mr D thinks PPI wasn't mentioned when he applied for the card, I 
think it's more likely that he ticked the box, and chose to buy it.
Mr D applied for the card by post. So I don't think someone from HFC advised Mr D to buy it. 
This means HFC didn't have to make sure the policy was right for Mr D. But it did need to 
give Mr D the information he'd need to work out for himself if he wanted it.
DRN-1134564It's possible that the information HFC gave Mr D about the PPI wasn't clear enough. But 
Mr D had to opt for the cover on the application - so it looks as if he wanted this type of 
cover. He doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't 
cover - so it seems it would have been useful to him if something went wrong. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. For these reasons, I don't think better information would have 
put Mr D off taking out the cover.
I've considered everything else Mr D has said, but this doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman