DRN-2667353
The complaint
Miss E complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss E took out a loan with TFS as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentInterest APR
15/01/2015 £7500.00 60 months £279.25 £9255.00 44.9%
Miss E brought her complaint to us when she wasnt able to resolve it with TFS. 
In summary, Miss E didnt think that TFS had lent to her responsibly at a time when she 
already had two other loans that took more than half her income and she felt TFS didnt 
properly check her expenditure.
  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Our investigator thought that some of 
the information TFS gathered about Miss Es finances shouldve prompted TFS to do more 
to check her overall financial situation  and had it done so, TFS shouldve found out that it 
was unlikely Miss E would be able to sustainably repay this loan. Our investigator set out 
directions indicating what TFS needed to do to put things right. 
Miss E was happy with what our investigator said.
TFS disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that it relied on its credit checks 
and the information Miss E provided at the time. It told us that the historic adverse 
information it saw didnt pose any risk to the repayment of the loan and it didnt think a 
customer should be penalised for past difficulties. TFS also told us that it strongly believed it 
was unfair for a lender to be held responsible if the customer hadnt been truthful during the 
loan application process.
TFS asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our 
website and Ive followed it here. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind when deciding whether to 
uphold Miss Es complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
shouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information TFS relied 
on when it decided to lend to Miss E. 
Like our investigator, I dont think TFS shouldve provided this loan. Ill explain why I say 
this.
TFS asked Miss E about her income and expenses and carried out credit checks - and it 
sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that TFS relied on when it 
agreed to provide this loan to Miss E. 
TFS recorded Miss Es income as £661.88 per month and worked out that Miss Es monthly 
expenditure would be £527.11 after making the monthly repayment on this loan - leaving her 
with around £134 spare cash. So TFS felt this loan was affordable for Miss E.
But I think that TFS could see from its credit check that, although the loan mightve appeared 
affordable, the information it saw on its credit checks painted a picture of someone 
potentially struggling to manage money problems effectively and it included clear warning 
signs that Miss E was experiencing financial difficulty. I say this because there was evidence 
of substantial reliance on credit and recent evidence of missed and late payments. TFS 
could see that she had taken out a credit card less than six months earlier and this had 
quickly reached its £200 limit and stayed at or over its limit ever since. All this information 
was at odds with what Miss E had told TFS about her financial situation when she said her 
partner effectively paid for everything and her salary was just extra money. 
Also bearing in mind the loan term and the amount she was borrowing, I dont think that the 
checks TFS did before agreeing to lend were proportionate in the circumstances. 
I think TFS should have carried out further checks before agreeing to provide the loan to 
ensure that it had a proper understanding of Miss Es financial situation. So, Ive looked at 
what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Miss E has provided bank statements which cover the months running up to her taking out 
this loan. Ive looked through these to see what TFS was likely to have found out had it done more in-depth checks. To be clear, Im not suggesting TFS should have necessarily asked to 
see Miss Es bank statements  TFS could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its 
obligation as a lender to carry out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. But in the 
absence of other evidence, I think the bank statements Miss E has sent me give a 
reasonable insight into her finances at the time. 
And had TFS done proportionate checking it would likely have seen information showing 
payments for other high cost lending that TFS didnt know about. Had it enquired about this, 
as I think the onus wouldve been on TFS to do, I think TFS shouldve found out that Miss E 
had signed up to make monthly repayments of £257.46 and £123.63 to two other high cost 
lenders. 
TFS couldve seen that it looked like she had already had trouble making at least some of 
those repayments as her bank statements show a returned direct debit for her payment on 
£257.46 in October 2014 alongside other unpaid items. The payslips TFS saw showed that 
Miss Es take home pay was around £637 for one month and £623 for the other month it 
looked at  so the total repayments she would be making on these loans and her new TFS 
loan already effectively took up all her likely take home pay. And although its unclear to me 
why TFS chose to record Miss Es net salary as £661 when it carried out its affordability 
assessment, this still wouldnt have left her with enough disposable income to be able to 
make loan repayments that totalled £660.34.
So had TFS carried out more in-depth checks it shouldve seen that further borrowing was 
likely to be unsustainable and so it shouldnt have provided this loan.
I've taken into account that Miss E told TFS that part of the loan was intended to be used for 
debt consolidation. But there was no suggestion that she was going to be using the money 
to pay either of the loans I've mentioned above that were in her name and that she would 
have ongoing personal responsibility for paying. So this doesnt affect my overall view that 
TFS shouldve realised that its loan wasnt sustainably affordable for her and so it shouldnt 
have been provided. 
For these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.  
I havent seen enough to make me think that TFS acted towards Miss E in any other way 
that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I've set out below what TFS should now do to put things right for Miss E.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss E to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has had to pay interest and charges 
on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her.
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss E received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Miss E made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss E having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss E.
remove any negative information recorded on Miss Es credit file regarding this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give 
Miss E a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to take the steps set out above to put 
things right for Miss E. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman