DRN-3362771
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) removed a block on gambling 
transactions from Mr Hs debit card without notice. They also complain that the block had 
failed to stop every gambling transaction made prior to that. 
What happened
In response to this complaint, BOS said that this sort of block would have continued if the 
debit card had been renewed. The issue here was that the card was replaced after a fraud 
incident. BOSs terms and conditions for the account and card explain that the block is 
removed in that case and its for the customer to replace it. 
BOS said they appreciated Mr H hadnt been told the block was going to be removed. But 
they said they werent required to tell customers that. They did though pay £25 to Mr H, to 
recognise the inconvenience hed experienced. 
Mr H brought the complaint to us. Our investigator noticed that Mr H had been able to make 
gambling purchases with his card prior to the block being removed in January 2021. So she 
concluded that even if BOS had told Mr H the block was being removed, it wouldnt have 
changed his ability to spend money on gambling. 
Our investigator also looked into why Mr H was able to make gambling transactions when 
there was a block on the card. She explained that the block worked by stopping certain 
merchant codes  set by the card issuer depending on the merchants declared business. 
The transactions that hadnt been stopped didnt appear to be with merchants whose codes 
matched the gambling codes blocked by BOS. 
Mr H didnt accept that outcome. He felt it was unfair for merchants to provide a gambling 
service and then not have a gambling merchant code. He felt BOS should have returned his 
money as the service from the merchants wasnt being provided as advertised. 
Unresolved, the complaints come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate thatll be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs H. But I agree with our investigator that the spending here 
doesnt directly link to a failing by BOS. 
I do feel BOS should consider again their view that theyre not required to tell a customer 
that a block is being removed from their card. I dont think that process would be obvious to 
a customer when they receive a replacement card as part of a fraud incident. Without some 
warning, I think most people would be surprised when that happens, and wouldnt realise 
they needed to do something to reinstate the block. 
That could cause significant problems  particularly for customers made more vulnerable by 
a gambling addiction  where the block was being relied on to help manage spending on 
gambling. 
But the absence of that block alone isnt what has caused the spending on gambling here. In 
2020  when the block was present  Mr H looks to have spent more on gambling and 
similar transactions than he did after the block was removed in 2021.
I take on board Mr Hs point that he would have thought the block would stop all gambling 
and related transactions. But I accept that the process used is more limited than that. 
Merchants may have a primary business that isnt gambling related, giving then a merchant 
code thats not blocked by BOS. 
For example, in July 2020 Mr H spent a large amount of money with an electronic money 
provider. Thats then gone on to fund a gambling service. The merchant code seen by BOS 
wouldnt reflect the onward transaction  just the purchase of the electronic money. 
In that way, these arent transactions where the service provided isnt as advertised. Its 
more that the behind-the-scenes technical details of it arent immediately obvious to a 
customer. I dont agree with Mr H that this should then form grounds for a dispute along false 
advertising grounds. 
In a similar way, some of the transactions in 2020 and 2021 arent technically gambling as 
caught by the block. In both 2020 and 2021, Mr H spent a lot of money with a company that 
offers high risk trading services. Its similar to gambling, in that a customers money is put at 
risk to try to achieve a gain. But its not entirely based on chance. So its different to 
gambling, and doesnt operate under the same merchant codes. 
In any case, BOS arent responsible for setting the merchant codes. Its done by the card 
network and the individual merchants. So Im not going to say BOS should be responsible 
for Mr H being able to gamble as a result of the merchant not having a gambling code. 
Ive thought generally though about whether the activity on Mr and Mrs Hs account should 
have raised concerns for BOS. I can see Mr H spent a large amount of money on gambling 
or similar transactions over the years. 
But I think its significant that Mr H has been spending his own money, as opposed to using 
excessive borrowing. That limits how much Id expect BOS to question whether the activity 
was affordable or sustainable for Mr and Mrs H. 
And I see no record of Mr Hs gambling issues being raised with BOS. I appreciate there 
must have been some awareness for BOS to have put the block on the card in the first 
place. But I accept their position that having no record could reflect that they didnt have 
permission to record that Mr H had a gambling problem. 
Without a specific record of that, I can understand why BOS didnt raise concerns when the 
account showed significant amounts of money being spent each month on gambling or 
similar transactions. 
All of which leads me to conclude that the gambling transactions arent a direct result of a 
failing by BOS. So Im not going to say they should be responsible for putting things right for 
Mr and Mrs H in this case. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman