DRN-2163620
The complaint
Mr Rs and Mrs Rs complaint is about the fees and charges applied, by Brewin Dolphin 
Limited (Brewin), for the management of their portfolios. They dispute the fees and charges, 
and they say transactions were churned, in Mrs Rs portfolio, for the sake of exploiting 
transaction commissions.
What happened
A summary of key facts is as follows:
Mrs R inherited her portfolio from her late mother. Her mother held a General 
Investment Account (GIA) and Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Brewin from 
2010; Brewin says the fee and commission rate that was applied at the time was 
0.5% Annual Management Charge (AMC) and 1.95% commission per transaction; 
and it says this later changed to 0.75% AMC and 1.25% commission per transaction.
Mrs Rs inheritance happened in 2017. The portfolio (the GIA and ISA, which appear 
to have been consolidated by Brewin after her mothers passing) was moved into a 
GIA set up in her name in June that year. Prior to this Brewin presented her with an 
investment proposal in which it recommended a restructuring of the portfolio, mainly 
on the basis that her mothers risk profile (defined as 3) was significantly different 
from hers (defined as 7). Mrs R agreed to this at the time. The fee and commission 
rate basis remained for the portfolio and the relevant rates, presented in the proposal 
document, were 0.75% AMC and 1.25% commission.
In 2018 Mr R set up his own GIA and ISA accounts with Brewin, to be managed on a 
consolidated basis (along with Mrs Rs) and on the same fee and commission rate 
basis (and rates).
Mr R and Mrs R (the complainants) mainly say as follows:
They learnt that the total relevant fees (including fund manager charges) was 2.2%; 
then they discovered, in 2019, that the total fees that had been incurred was around 
4.9%, mainly due to transaction costs  which differed significantly from what they 
were told at the outset.
The also learnt, in 2019, that commission charges were applied to their holdings in 
collective investments  they do not believe such charges should apply for such 
investments.
Given the size of the transaction costs, which arose from the commissions incurred, 
they consider that the restructuring of Mrs Rs portfolio was largely unnecessary; and 
that the transactions within the restructuring were essentially used by Brewin to churn 
commissions.
Brewin has not treated them fairly and it should give them a refund of the difference 
between the total fees they incurred and what they would have incurred in total fees 
based on what they were told at the outset.
Brewin says the fee and commission rate basis (and rates) was agreed by the complainants 
and was applied accordingly, without change, to the portfolios; the 4.9% fees that has been 
mentioned included, in addition to Brewins fees, the third party fees (arising from fund 
management of the fund investments they held) set out in the summary sent to them in 
2019; and the restructuring of Mrs Rs portfolio was a suitable recommendation, based on 
her risk profile and objectives, and it naturally led to an increase in transactions (and 
associated commissions) in 2018. 
Brewin accepts that it had an alternative charging structure  based on a fee only rate 
(without commission payments for transactions)  which  may have been more suited to 
 the complainants portfolios, especially as the restructuring of Mrs Rs portfolio (which 
would involve frequent transactions) was foreseen in its proposal of 2017. On this basis, it 
offered to settle the case with payment, to the complainants, of the difference between the 
total fees they actually incurred and the total fees they would have incurred under the fee 
only rate.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He agreed with Brewin that the fee and commission rate basis (and rates)  and the 
minimum management charge on the account  were clearly disclosed to and agreed by the 
complainants; that they were applied accordingly (without change) to the portfolios; that the 
same disclosure was provided with regards to the third party fund management charges; and 
that the recommendation to restructure Mrs Rs portfolio was reasonable given the 
significant change in risk profile, so this explains the trading activities that followed.
However, the investigator took the view that Brewin should have recommended the fee only 
rate to the complainants at the outset  for broadly the same reason it made its settlement 
offer. He considered that the prospect of a major restructuring of Mrs Rs portfolio  which 
Brewin knew and expressed in its 2017 proposal  was enough to establish that the fee only 
rate was in Mrs Rs best interest; and that in the context of treating her fairly it should have 
recommended the fee only rate to her. He concluded that this should be redressed by 
compensation for any lost portfolio performance arising from the deduction of commission 
payments that would have been avoided under the fee only rate and by a refund of the 
commission payments incurred when Mrs Rs portfolio was liquidated in 2019 (as they too 
would have been avoided under the fee only rate).
Brewin disagreed with this outcome. It highlighted the investigators acceptance that there 
was appropriate disclosure to the complainants (and agreement by them) with regards to the 
fee rates. It argued that this is the main issue in the complaint, that it has been found in its 
favour and that neither its acceptance that the fee only rate may have been more suitable 
nor its settlement offer dilutes this finding. It also said it had no prior notice that Mrs R 
planned to liquidate the portfolio and leave Brewin, so it is not fair to criticise it for applying 
its commission at the point of the liquidation. 
In response to Brewins repeated references to the fee structure being agreed by the 
complainants, Mrs R said the relevant discussion happened without prior notice and at a 
time when she was not prepared. She says she took her lead from Brewin in terms of the fee 
structure and what to agree.
The investigator did not change his view and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The investigator made some findings which favoured Brewin. In this respect, and as stated 
above, he essentially said the fee and commission rate basis (and rates) were disclosed to 
and agreed by the complainants, that the same applied to the third party fund management 
charges and that the restructure of Mrs Rs portfolio (because of the significant change in 
risk profile) explains the increased transactions (and commissions from those transactions) 
in 2018. 
I agree with these findings. Evidence of the 2017 proposal document and an October 2017 
email, both sent to Mrs R, shows that Brewin presented information about the fee and 
commission rate basis (and rates) as stated above. The former set the terms for the fees 
and charges agreed between the parties. The latter referred to the underlying fund charges 
related to Mrs Rs portfolio  as did an earlier email in the same month from Mrs R, in which 
she asked for information about fund management charges. Overall, I too am satisfied that 
the relevant rate basis, rates and fund management charges were disclosed to and agreed 
by the complainants in 2017.
The regulators guidance on churning is as follows:
A series of transactions that are each suitable when viewed in isolation may be unsuitable if 
the recommendation or the decisions to trade are made with a frequency that is not in the 
best interests of the client. 
The focus is on the frequency with which a firm carries out transactions for its client and on 
its clients best interests. Both elements are important, and the idea is that frequent 
transactions in a clients portfolio ought not to be carried out only or mainly for the purpose of 
generating commission for the firm, they should be carried out in the clients best interests. 
In this context, I agree with the investigators finding on the complainants allegation that Mrs 
Rs portfolio was churned. I do not consider that it was.There is no allegation or suggestion of unsuitability in this matter, so I have not considered 
that. Mrs R accepts that the recommended restructuring had to involve some changes to the 
portfolio, but her argument is that it ought not to have involved as many changes (and 
transactions) as Brewin carried out  hence her view that the restructuring transactions were 
excessive and that they indicate churning.  
I understand this view, but I consider that it highlights only or mainly the number of 
transactions that took place. As stated in the guidance above, the clients best interests are 
equally important in considering whether (or not) churning has happened. Moving a portfolio 
from a lower risk profile to a higher/high risk profile is a significant venture and I am not 
persuaded that the relevant portfolio changes (and transactions) should have been as limited 
in this respect as Mrs R argues or suggests. Overall, I am not satisfied that the restructuring 
transactions in her portfolio were not in her best interests  that being, achieving the 
significant transformation of the portfolios risk profile.
Having agreed with the findings in favour of Brewin, I disagree with its contention that the 
complaint rests upon them. It does not. The complaint submissions (to this service and, 
before it was referred to us, to Brewin) make clear that the primary dispute is about the 
alleged unfairness of the fees applied to the complainants portfolios. Reference was also 
made to performance lost from the portfolios because of the deduction of unfair fees. As 
such, aside from noting that the fees were properly disclosed and that there is a lack of 
evidence of churning it remains necessary to consider whether (or not) the fees were fair. I 
do not consider that they were.
Brewin accepts that the fee only rate basis would have been more suitable. I consider that 
this rate basis would, simply, have been suitable  and that, in the circumstances, the 
alternative fee and commission rate basis was unsuitable for Mrs R (and then for Mr R). 
Brewin was obliged to treat the complainants fairly and it had a regulatory duty to uphold 
their best interests. It recommended an almost wholesale change to the portfolio Mrs R 
inherited and it would have known that such a pursuit will require many transactions. It 
followed that the fee and commission rate basis would be more costly to her than the fee 
only basis. This should have been clearly explained to her and the latter should have been 
clearly recommended to her, as being in her best interests. Neither appears to have been 
done at the time.
It is not enough for Brewin to rely, as it presently does, on the complainants making a wilful 
decision to agree the fee and commission rate basis. If they did this contrary to its 
recommendation of the fee only rate basis, my view could be different. However, that was 
not the case and I am persuaded that if Mrs R, at the outset, was told that the fee only rate 
basis would be cheaper for her it is more likely (than not) she would have opted for it  and 
so would have Mr R thereafter. 
Brewins failure to serve the complainants best interests, as addressed above, is its 
wrongdoing in this case. It is also the basis for the redress ordered below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation for the complainants will be to put them into the position they would be in 
had the fee only rate basis been applied to their portfolios at the outset  as should have 
been the case. It is not enough to refund them the difference between the fees and charges 
that were applied to their portfolios and the fees that would have applied under the fee only 
rate basis. As they and the investigator have said, the matter of lost performance must also 
be addressed. If commissions for transactions had not been deducted from the complainants portfolios the 
values of those deductions would have remained invested and would have experienced the 
same performance (in terms of growth and/or income) as the rest of the portfolios. Fair 
compensation must cater for this  based on the difference between the portfolios values 
when they were liquidated and what their values would have been had they included all the 
deducted commissions (and performances upon them).
The second element of fair compensation for the complainants is the need to refund to them 
the commissions deducted in the course of liquidating the portfolios. I do not consider it 
relevant that earlier notice of their intention to liquidate was not shared with Brewin. The key 
point is that their portfolios should have been held on the fee only rate basis and on that rate 
basis no commissions would have applied to the liquidation of their portfolios.
To compensate the complainants fairly, Brewin must do as follows:
Calculate the values of their portfolios at the point of their liquidations (the end 
date(s)). [a]
Calculate the values that their portfolios would have held, at the end date(s) and 
based on the portfolios actual performances, if all deducted commissions had 
remained invested in the portfolios and minus any increase in AMC that would have 
applied under the fee only rate basis. This calculation must include any and all 
accumulated capital growth and/or income that would have been generated in this 
scenario). [b]
If b is greater than a, pay the complainants the difference. [c]
Pay the complainants interest on c at the rate of 8% simple per year from the end 
date(s) to the date of settlement. The interest payment is to redress the complainants 
being deprived of c from the end date(s).
Calculate all commissions deducted from the portfolios in the course of their 
liquidations, refund the total amount of such deductions to the complainants and pay 
them interest on the total refund at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
the last commission deduction to the date of settlement. The interest payment is to 
redress the complainants being deprived of the total refund from the date of the last 
commission deduction.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs and Mrs Rs complaint and I order Brewin 
Dolphin Limited to pay them compensation as set out above. Brewin Dolphin Limited must 
also provide them with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman