DRN-3030938
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2010, 
alongside a personal loan. Mr H says Santander UK Plc mis-sold that PPI policy.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of that information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but thought Santanders offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr H paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Santander should have disclosed 
the commission it received, but that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
I can see from the PPI questionnaire that Mr H said he thought hed bought PPI after 
completing a leaflet provided to him by Santander. But looking at the electronic evidence 
thats available from the point of sale, Im satisfied its most likely PPI was sold at the same 
time as Mr H made an online application for his loan. That means I think he would have been 
able to complete the application in his own time and at his own pace. 
Santander provided me with several screenshots from its application process in 2010. So, 
Im confident I have seen the same information Mr H would have been presented with when 
the policy was sold to him. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether it would have been clear to Mr H that he had a 
choice about whether to buy the PPI policy, and that he didnt have to take it out if he didnt 
want it. I can see from the screenshots that PPI was referred to as an optional product that 
was separate to his loan. There were two equally prominent boxes to select  one to indicate 
he wanted a PPI policy, and another to indicate he did not. I dont think Mr H would have 
been able to proceed with his application without selecting either yes or no. I think he most 
likely selected yes, otherwise the cover wouldnt have been added. 
I can also see that Mr H would have been presented with a summary of his application 
before it was submitted to Santander. So if he didnt want PPI, or if hed added it by mistake, 
I think he would have been able to go back and amend that selection. On balance, Im 
satisfied Mr H knew the PPI was optional and he didnt have to take it out if he didnt want it. 
As this was an online sale, Mr H didnt receive any personal advice from Santander to take 
the PPI policy out. But Santander still had to give him enough information about the cover so 
he could decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. 
I can see that Santander provided quite a bit of information about the cost of the cover, and it 
was set out separately to his loan repayments. Santander also told Mr H how much he would 
pay in total if the PPI policy and loan ran to term. But I can also see that in order to find out 
about some of the policys exclusions, Mr H would have had to click through to another 
document. So I accept that the information Santander gave him probably wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. 
But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I also have to consider 
whether Mr H would have acted differently if Santander had told him everything it should 
have done. 
I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the policy, Mr Hs loan repayments would have 
been covered for up to 12 months if hed had to make a claim because he was off sick, was 
made redundant, or if he became a carer for an immediate family member. The loan balance 
would have also been repaid in full in the unfortunate event of his death. 
I can see that Mr H had some contractual sick pay from his employer. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to that, and for longer. Those representing Mr H said that he would 
have been entitled to a redundancy payment which was the equivalent of more than 12 
months of his salary. I appreciate Mr H had worked for his employer for 10 years, but I 
consider such a redundancy package to be extraordinarily generous. In the absence of any 
evidence to support this, I consider such a generous package to be unlikely. I do accept that 
Mr H probably would have had some redundancy entitlement. But on balance, it seems to 
me most likely that the PPI would have lasted for longer than his redundancy pay. 
I understand Mr H had critical illness cover when this policy was sold. But I would only 
expect that to have paid out if he was diagnosed with one of a number of defined and serious illnesses. The critical illness policy wouldnt have been covered if he was off sick 
from work, if he lost his job, or had to take time off to care for a family member. I can see 
from the PPI questionnaire that Mr H would have been entitled to a death in service 
payment. I would only expect that benefit to be paid in the unfortunate event of Mr Hs death 
 not in the same circumstances as the PPI policy. 
Ive next considered whether any of the policys exclusions around medical conditions would 
have affected Mr Hs decision to take the policy out. I can see that hed been diagnosed with 
high blood pressure and high cholesterol in 2003, and he was prescribed medication to 
manage those conditions. I cant see that these conditions caused him to take any time off 
work, so I dont think hed have thought hed be off work for more than 30 days because of 
them  which is the waiting period for this policy. 
I can see Mr H also had some trouble with his mental health in 2005. He accessed mental 
health services and I can see he missed around four weeks of work at that time. However, 
the evidence provided to me doesnt suggest Mr H still had ongoing problems with his 
mental health in 2010 when the cover was sold. But even if he did, I cant reasonably say 
hed have thought hed need to take more than 30 days off because of his mental health. 
With all of this in mind, I dont think the exclusions around medical conditions would have put 
him off buying the PPI. 
Those representing Mr H made a number of submissions about what they believed to be the 
policys additional limitations for back and mental health conditions. Having considered the 
policy document at some length, I am satisfied there were no such limitations as contended 
by the representative. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Mr Hs employment that would have stopped him from 
being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. I havent seen anything to suggest 
the PPI policy was unaffordable for him either. 
Overall, I consider that Mr H would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought it was and I think it could have provided a useful benefit at what 
could have been a difficult time if Mr H couldnt work for more than 30 days.  I cant say he 
would have acted differently even if Santander had given him more or better information 
about the cover. 
Mr Hs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Santander didnt tell Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between Santander and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act because Santander didnt tell him about the high levels of commission 
and profit share in this case 
I dont think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Hs representative made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr H should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Santander failed to tell Mr H about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid; the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr H wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipthe consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr H 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Santander not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness, 
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Santanders failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. Im satisfied it was fair for Santander to calculate compensation in 
line with the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr H paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr H 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Santander had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Santanders offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As I understand Santander has already paid Mr H compensation on this basis, I dont require 
it do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Hs complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As 
Santander UK Plc has already paid compensation on this basis, it does not need to take any 
further action in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman