DRN-3504555
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Vauxhall Finance plc (VF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint VF, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VF, who 
are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs B. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Mrs B has provided a couple of breakdown recovery reports that document extensive fault 
codes reported on the car in August and October 2021. Both reports explain that the car was 
misfiring and many of the fault codes reported are the same. The dealership attempted 
repairs on two occasions in August 2021 but its clear those repairs were unsuccessful as 
the faults persisted in October 2021.
The relevant legislation says that when we consider whether goods have been of 
satisfactory quality we should think about whether theyve been durable. I dont think that 
can be said to be the case here. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a new car to 
experience such extensive problems within the first 7,000 miles of driving.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair faults present at the 
point of supply. As theyve had this opportunity and the faults persist VF should now allow 
Mrs B to reject the car and to end her finance agreement with them.
Putting things right
VF should collect the car, if they havent already done so, and at no cost to Mrs B. They 
should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mrs B has paid and, as shes been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Its not fair that Mrs B should be expected to pay for a car she has had no use of since 14 
October 2021. I think, given the problems she had experienced, it was reasonable for Mrs B 
to leave the car with the dealership at that point and I think VF should refund any finance 
instalments shes paid since then in respect of loss of use. Theyll need to add interest to 
that refund too and for the same reasons.
Mrs B has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had the car recovered on a few 
occasions and has had to arrange alternative transport. Shes also had to escalate her 
complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier for her. In those 
circumstances I think VF should pay her £250 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Vauxhall Finance plc to:
Collect the car, if they havent already done so, and end the finance agreement.
Refund any finance instalments paid since 10 October 2021 in respect of loss of use. 
Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any deposit Mrs B has paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs B £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Bs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman