DRN-2390948
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim on their 
buildings insurance. 
At times throughout the complaint both UKI and Mr and Mrs C have been represented by 
their solicitors. But for ease of reading, all references to both UKI and Mr and Mrs C also 
include the actions of their solicitors. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C own a motor trading and repairs business. The business is based at premises 
they rent from the owner of the site. They had insurance with UKI that covered the business 
and stock.
At the end of 2016 there was an arson attack at the premises. Mr and Mrs C made a claim 
on the insurance. 
In February 2017 UKI sent out an investigator to interview Mr and Mrs C and a loss adjuster 
to inspect the premises. At this time there was also an ongoing police investigation into the 
matter. 
In May 2017 the police decided there wasnt enough evidence to take the case any further 
so closed their file. UKI requested the evidence and notes from them. 
Over the months that followed UKI explained that it was still making a decision about 
whether it would cover Mr and Mrs Cs loss. Its solicitor met with Mr C again in October 2017 
to ask further questions. 
In November 2017 UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs C to say that it thought that Mr C had been 
involved in the starting of the fire and so it was declining the claim based on the fraud term in 
the policy. Its reasons included that Mr Cs description of the events on the day of the fire 
had been inconsistent. And his description of what happened immediately after didnt match 
the CCTV footage.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think that was fair, they were adamant they had no involvement. They 
made a complaint. As UKI didnt respond within the required time, they brought their 
complaint to this service. UKI subsequently responded to say its position was laid out in its 
declination letter and it hadnt changed that position following the complaint. Mr and Mrs C 
werent happy with this and asked for this service to investigate.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he thought UKI had 
conducted a thorough investigation and agreed there were inconsistencies in Mr Cs 
account. So he thought UKI had acted fairly by relying on the fraud condition. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim as it believes it to be fraudulent. In cases where 
fraud has been alleged, our role is not to decide whether fraud has been committed. But to 
decide whether the business acted fairly and reasonably when reaching its decision. Its 
important to note that as this is not a criminal matter UKI dont need to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that fraud occurred, but just that it was most likely.
We understand that accusing someone of fraud is a serious matter. So its important that a 
business has enough weight of evidence to make its decision fair and reasonable. When 
reaching my decision, I have considered the investigation carried out by UKI and the 
evidence it has relied upon when reaching its decision, in order to decide whether it has 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
In its declination letter UKI has listed a number of reasons why it thought Mr C hadnt been 
honest in the claim. I have considered all of these alongside the additional evidence 
provided. Having done so, I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr and 
Mrs Cs claim based on the fraud condition. I have explained why below, referring to the 
evidence I have found most persuasive. 
Mr Cs account of the day of the fire.
UKI has said that Mr C has provided differing accounts of his movements on the day of the 
fire, at different interviews. I can see from evidence provided that there are some differences 
in what he said he did during the day. For example he provided three different reasons why 
he left the premises at around 18:45 on the evening of the fire. Saying he was going to a 
hardware store, going home for dinner and going home to get tools in order to return to the 
premises on different occasions.
Mr C has also maintained that he was alone all day at the premises. However UKI has said 
that CCTV shows that two individuals left the premises while Mr C was there. Ive looked at 
the CCTV evidence and I can see the two people leaving through the gates shortly after 
midday. From looking at the diagram of the premises, its clear Mr C would have been aware 
of those people being present while he was there. And from the footage available, while it 
isnt possible to see how long they were there for  I can see they were there for more than 
20 minutes. So I think its likely Mr C hasnt given a true account of what happened while he 
was at the premises that day. 
Mr Cs account of the arson attack.
UKI has also said that Mr Cs account of events during the arson attack dont match other 
evidence available. And it says this means its most likely that Mr C was involved in the 
attack.
Mr C says that the people responsible for the attack entered the premises carrying petrol 
cans and set a fire using the fuel when they got in. He says he then chased them out but 
didnt see where they went. 
UKI has said that this doesnt correlate with the CCTV and forensic evidence.
Ive looked at the CCTV footage from the time of the attack. I can see two individuals 
entering through the main gates, after Mr C has already entered. However they dont appear 
to be carrying petrol cans. They also dont appear to have petrol cans when they leave. I also understand from the forensic report that no petrol cans were found on the site of the 
fire. So I agree that this doesnt correlate with Mr Cs description of how the fire was started. 
The CCTV also shows the individuals running out of the main gates after the fire has started, 
followed closely by Mr C. The three individuals who leave the premises are running very 
closely together, and the one that remains at the premises (presumably Mr C) turns his 
whole body towards the other two as they run off. As he is only a few metres behind them at 
this point, it seems unlikely that Mr C would have had any problem seeing where they were 
going. 
Finally, the report from the fire brigade shows that there were around six different fires that 
were started at the premises. This doesnt match Mr Cs description of how the fires were 
started. And due to the locations of the fires across the premises, it doesnt match the 
amount of time the two individuals were at the premises for, before the fire started. 
So I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that it was most likely that the fires werent started in 
the way Mr C described.
Knowledge of the future of the premises.
UKI has also said that during its investigations it came to light that the premises Mr and Mrs 
Cs businesses is based at was being sold by the landlord and potentially redeveloped into 
flats. It says this could have been a reason why Mr C would be involved in starting the fire, in 
order to claim on the insurance. Mr C has said he had no knowledge of these plans and had 
intended to stay at the premises for the foreseeable future.  
UKI has provided evidence from the developer who had bought the premises. From the 
evidence provided it seems most likely that Mr C was aware of the upcoming sale. The 
developer has confirmed that he was in contact with Mr C directly towards the end of 2016. 
And that there was a site visit in order for soil samples to be taken. 
Mr C has said he thought the site visit was due to drainage problems. However the 
developer says Mr C was aware of the plans for development and that they had spoken 
about it. Considering both of these explanations, I think its more likely that Mr C was aware 
of the plans. It seems unlikely that a site visit would take place without Mr Cs knowledge of 
what it was for. And even if he wasnt aware before the visit, it seems unlikely that he 
wouldnt become aware during the visit based on the actions carried out and from talking to 
the developer.  
Summary
Im satisfied that UKI has conducted a thorough investigation into the circumstances of the 
fire. And I agree that Mr Cs account of the events on the day of the fire were inconsistent 
and it seems likely the attack didnt happen how Mr C described.
So, after considering Mr Cs account alongside the other available evidence, I think UKI has 
acted fairly and reasonably when reaching its decision to decline Mr and Mrs Cs claim by 
applying the fraud condition.  So I wont ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman