DRN-2476499
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about the way esure Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made 
under her joint home insurance policy with Mr W following an escape of water.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs W reported damage to her home following a leak under a ground 
floor bathroom. The hallway was damaged as was the kitchen. esure accepted the claim. 
Asbestos tiles were discovered in the kitchen. Rather than remove them, the contractor 
encapsulated them. But this caused further damage to the kitchen as it left black sludge 
across the floor. Mrs W explained that the downstairs of their home is open plan. Due to the 
encapsulating works, it made it very difficult for them to access the kitchen. Mrs W said she 
operates a business cooking food from her kitchen, which esure was aware of.
Mrs W reported damage caused to kitchen units by the contractor, which esure accepted. 
In November 2019 drying of the property began. But when the sludge was removed from the 
kitchen, Mrs W thinks the damp proof coursing (DPC) was also removed without her 
knowledge. Mrs W said they noticed this when Mr Ws contractor began reinstatement works 
to the floor - and noticed the driers were effectively sucking moisture towards the surface.
esure didnt agree to pay for the floor to be uplifted, as it said Mrs W had begun 
reinstatement works before esure had authorised it and against the loss adjusters advice.
Mrs W raised concerns as she reported that the contractor had caused damage to kitchen 
units and she was unhappy with the loss adjusters handling of the claim. Mrs W wanted 
esure to consider her loss of earnings while unable to use her kitchen.
esure instructed a different loss adjuster to provide a scope of works (SOW) and agreed to 
cover the repairs to the kitchen units. esure made an interim settlement of £3,000. The new 
loss adjuster provided a SOW which totalled £5,196.70. Mrs W didnt think this was enough 
as she provided quotes for the works which she said came to around £9,000. 
esure accepted mistakes had been made and it could have dealt with the claim better. For 
the distress and inconvenience it caused, esure paid Mrs W £250 compensation. But it said 
its settlement offer was fair as per the SOW from the second loss adjuster. 
Mrs W remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She didnt feel the 
compensation esure had paid was enough to reflect the inconvenience caused and the 
length of time it was taking. And she didnt agree the SOW covered everything shed claimed 
for. 
Our investigator didnt think esure had caused undue delay as once the asbestos tiles were 
identified, this inevitably held things up until they were dealt with. But he couldnt see that 
esure had explained the contractor wouldnt be removing the affected tiles, but 
encapsulating them instead. He thought esure should pay for the DPC to be replaced as its 
contractor removed it. But he didnt think esure should pay for the floor to be uplifted. And he 
didnt think esure should cover Mrs Ws claim for loss of earnings as this isnt covered under 
her policy. 
The investigator thought the SOW seemed reasonable and  in line with the policy, esures 
offer to pay £2,196.70 in addition to the interim payment of £3,000 was fair to settle the 
claim. 
He thought a fairer compensation award for the distress and inconvenience caused was 
£400. So he recommended esure pay a further £150 to Mrs and Mr W. 
Mrs W didnt agree. She said the SOW didnt include the costs to replace the damaged 
kitchen units. 
esure didnt think it should increase the amount of compensation it paid. 
Our investigator asked esure to clarify if the SOW included replacing the damaged kitchen 
units. But esure didnt reply. So the investigator issued a second view. He made an 
additional recommendation for esure to pay a further £2,320 as the quote provided by Mrs W 
to replace the kitchen units. 
esure didnt agree. It said it would provide further information to support its view. But it didnt. 
On 20 November 2020 I issued a provisional decision. I thought esure had quoted for the 
repair costs for the kitchen units in the SOW. So I intended to recommend esure do the 
following:
If it hadnt already done so, pay the remaining balance of the settlement of 
£2,196.70. This was in addition to the interim payment its already paid of £3,000.
Pay the costs to apply DPC to underneath the replaced flooring, but not the uplifting 
of it.
Pay Mrs and Mr W a further £150 compensation in addition to the £250 its already 
paid. If it hasnt already paid, pay a total of £400 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. Since Mrs W brought her complaint to us, 
esure had increased the settlement toward the costs of replacing the kitchen units by 
£1,024.43. And so this brought the total cash settlement from £5,196.70 to £6,221.13.
Mrs W queried if the costs of the carpentry works for a WC and hallway were included in the 
SOW. esure confirmed they were included. 
We contacted both parties to say that in light of the updated information from esure, this 
changed the settlement sums quoted in my provisional decision. As esure had clarified the 
inclusion of the queried works under the SOW, and it had agreed a higher settlement toward 
the kitchen units, I intended to issue a final decision saying this amount was fair. My other 
recommendations from my provisional decision would remain.
esure hasnt provided any further comments. In summary Mrs W says the claim was poorly 
managed and caused considerable stress. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.esure accepts responsibility for the damage caused to the kitchen units by the contractor 
dealing with the asbestos tiles. Ive looked at the SOW provided by the second loss adjuster 
which totalled £5,196.70. On page 4 it provides costing for the following:
Renew drawer front  white gloss finish one of four but despite matching items 
cover, suggest replacing all four
Renew base unit door  any height  white gloss finish, damage due to asbestos 
works 14 doors undamaged
Mrs Ws claim included damage only to kitchen units. I think the above description is 
sufficient evidence that the SOW included them.
The quote Mrs W provided from her contractor to replace the damaged kitchen units came to 
£1,470 including VAT including labour. To replace all of the kitchen units, the quote came to 
£2,320 including VAT. 
esures policy says this is how it will settle a claim:
In any event, We will not pay any extra cost for extending or improving Your 
Buildings once
they are rebuilt. Where it is possible to rebuild, replace or repair Your Buildings but 
You do
not agree with these settlement options, We will pay You cash based on the rebuild,
replacement or repair cost to Us.
In my provisional decision I thought it was reasonable for esure to rely on the SOW provided 
by the second loss adjuster. I thought it included all claim related works and included 
covering the damage caused by the contractor dealing with the asbestos tiles. 
As esure has increased its settlement offer for the kitchen units by £1,024.43, I think this is 
reasonable. And Im satisfied that the total settlement is fair and includes carpentry works for 
the WC and hallway.
I understand esure doesnt agree with the suggested increase in compensation to £400. 
Dealing with any claim can cause distress and inconvenience. In this case, Mrs W and her 
family decided not to move out on the basis that the asbestos tiles would be removed. 
However, the tiles werent removed, and the method of repair caused further damage. This 
meant the contractor had to come back to Mrs Ws home to remove the black sludge that 
had spread over their kitchen floor, and delayed the beginning of the drying out process. Mrs 
W explained that this made it impossible for them to use their kitchen. Its clear that Mrs W 
made a number of calls to esure raising concerns about the way the claim was being 
handled. So I think a fairer compensation award is £400 and in line with awards we make for 
similar cases. 
As it seems the contractor removed the existing DPC while removing the sludge, I think 
esure should pay for its replacement. But as Mrs W instructed her contractors to begin floor 
work before authorisation from esure, I dont think it should pay for the floor to be uplifted. 
So Im upholding this complaint in part with the remedies as set out below.
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure Insurance Limited to 
do the following:
If it hasnt already done so, pay the remaining balance of the settlement to bring it 
to a total of £6,221.13. 
Pay the costs to apply DPC to underneath the replaced flooring, but not the 
uplifting of it. 
Pay Mrs and Mr W a further £150 compensation in addition to the £250 its 
already paid. If it hasnt already paid, pay a total of £400 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs W and Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman