DRN-3735704
The complaint
Miss P complains about the service she received from TSB Bank plc (TSB) when seeking 
to withdraw cash over the counter.
What happened
Miss P holds an account with TSB. She says she tried to withdraw cash over the counter in 
the branch on more than one occasion but was questioned by staff. She says they asked her 
what the money was for and why she needed to use cash. She says they encouraged her to 
do a bank transfer instead. Miss P says she has answered their questions and explained 
why she wants to use cash, so she doesnt think further questions are necessary. She is 
also unhappy that her local branch doesnt offer counter service on Saturdays. She raised a 
complaint with TSB.
TSB didnt uphold the complaint. It says its entitled to ask customers for more information 
about payments in and out of their account, so it can comply with its obligations as a 
financial business. It says the branch staff wanted to discuss alternative ways for Miss P to 
make payments in order to help safeguard her account. It says its staff were following 
policies and procedures which are in place to protect her account. In relation to the Saturday 
service, TSB says it made a business decision that its branches will no longer offer a counter 
service on Saturdays. It says this information is available on its website.
Miss P wasnt happy with TSBs response and asked this service to look at the complaint. 
She says that TSB is dictating when and how she spends her money and that its common 
practice to use cash in the trade she was paying for.
Our Investigator thought TSB had acted fairly. But Miss P didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that its right for TSB to have procedures in place to safeguard 
customers accounts. Its not the role of this service to tell businesses what those procedures 
should be or how they should be carried out - that is a matter for TSB to decide. But I can 
decide whether TSB followed its procedures correctly and acted fairly. I think it did and Ill 
explain why.
TSB has a duty to protect customers accounts from scams and fraud so far as possible. The 
terms and conditions of Miss Ps account say it can refuse to make a payment if it seems 
unusual. Miss P was attempting to withdraw large sums of money in cash. These werent 
usual transactions. And there is less protection in place for customers who use cash, 
compared with other methods of payment. So I think it was reasonable for TSB to ask 
questions about the withdrawals. 
Miss P says she told the staff what the money was for. I think it was reasonable for TSB to 
suggest alternative payment methods, based on what Miss P told them. I understand that 
Miss P prefers to use cash and she has explained why. But, in all the circumstances here, I 
think TSBs approach was reasonable. 
Turning to the counter service, its a commercial decision for TSB as to when it will open its 
branches and what services it will offer when. Im satisfied that Miss P was made aware that 
the counter service wouldnt be available in her local branch on Saturdays and that this 
information is available on TSBs website. TSB says that its staff will be able to help 
customers to use other services when the counter service isnt available, such as using 
machines in the branch or online banking services. I think thats reasonable.
In conclusion, I dont think TSB has acted unfairly here, so Im not going to ask it to do 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman