DRN-3975011
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Coventry Building Society will not allow him to close his Fixed Bond. 
What happened
On 11 December 2021 Mr L applied online for a Fixed Bond with Coventry. The bond had a 
fixed interest rate of 1.40% AER, calculated daily and paid gross annually. The maturity date 
of the bond is 31 December 2024. 
On 12 December 2021 Coventry sent a welcome letter to Mr L to confirm the bond had been 
opened. The letter included a summary of how the bond worked and a booklet with more 
detailed information about the bond. The letter also highlighted reading the enclosed 
information as the next step for Mr L. 
The bond allowed a cooling off period of 14 calendar days for someone to change their mind 
and make a withdrawal from the bond or close it. Mr Ls cooling off period ended on 25 
December 2021. 
On 13 August 2022 Mr L contacted Coventry using their secure message service. Mr L 
noted that other bonds were now earning more interest and he enquired as to what the 
financial implications would be for closing his bond and opening a new one. Coventry 
responded to Mr Ls query to confirm that under the terms and conditions of the bond, Mr Ls 
bond was a no access bond, so he would not be able to close the bond before it matured. 
Mr L attempted to close the bond online, but was unsuccessful in doing so. As part of his 
submissions for this complaint he has provided a screenshot showing this attempt. 
The screenshot relates to the bond in question as it includes the relevant account number. 
The wording on this webpage says; Sorry, we are currently unable to close your account 
online. It then lists some of the possible reasons why it had not been possible to close the 
account online. Following which it says, If you would still like to close your account, please 
contact our Customer Services Centre onor visit your local branch. 
Mr L contacted Coventry on 5 December 2022. Coventrys notes record that Mr L called to 
say he thought he was losing money given other bonds with Coventry were paying 4.10%, 
and he therefore wished to close his existing bond and invest in something with a higher 
interest rate. Coventrys notes say Mr L referred to information online that said he could 
close the account but would need to call the contact centre to do that. The member of staff at 
Coventry is noted as explaining to Mr L that the information online was general information 
only, so customers were prompted to call in so that relevant terms and conditions could be 
considered. The staff member confirmed the account was no access and they could not 
override the terms and conditions of Mr Ls bond. 
Mr L raised a complaint with Coventry about this, which Coventry did not uphold. They 
concluded Mr L had been provided with enough information which explained the account 
was no access, and while there was an online invitation to call in to close the account, 
closing the bond was dependent on the terms and conditions. 
Unable to resolve things with Coventry, Mr L brought the complaint to this service and it was 
considered by our Investigator. The Investigator concluded Mr Ls complaint should not be 
upheld. They explained there was enough information available to Mr L at the outset to have 
shown that after the cooling off period, the account could not be accessed, and they could 
not see that Coventry had been wrong to decline closing the account. The Investigator also 
noted that while interest rates may have increased since the bond was opened, this didnt 
mean it could now be closed before the maturity date. 
Mr L challenged the Investigators findings and in particular referenced the online message 
which invited him to call customer services to close the bond. The Investigator considered 
Mr Ls points, but did not feel this changed their findings as they said the invitation to call 
customer services was not confirmation that the account could be closed, and it was the 
terms and conditions of the bond that should be considered. 
Mr L continued to disagree with the Investigator as he felt the online message was a direct 
invitation to him to close the bond if he wanted to. And he added that this offer to close the 
bond account made no mention of the terms and conditions relating to the bond.
 
As the matter could not be resolved, it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I recognise this will come as a disappointment to Mr L, I have 
decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint for broadly the same reasons as the Investigator. 
The available literature which I have seen as part of this complaint explains that, after the 
cooling off period, it is not possible to make any unpermitted withdrawals from the account 
and nor is it possible to close the account, until the bond matures in December 2024. 
I understand Mr L says the wording online, when he tried to close the bond himself, should 
be recognised as confirmation that he could close the account by contacting Coventrys 
Customer Service Centre. Mr L feels strongly about this as he views it as a personal 
invitation to close the bond if that is something he wished to do. 
Ive carefully considered the wording Mr L has referenced to support he should be able to 
close his account. But I do not think this is enough to say the terms and conditions of the 
bond no longer have any relevance. 
While I accept Mr Ls submissions that the screenshot of the webpage he has provided does 
not reference terms and conditions to any type of account, I am very mindful that the wording 
does not offer any guarantee that the account for the bond can be closed. Im also mindful that amongst the list of reasons the webpage suggests to explain why it had 
not been possible to close Mr Ls bond online, these included reference to an ISA and the 
possibility of joint account holders  neither of which applied to Mr Ls bond. So I think its 
reasonable to say the information on this webpage, whilst it had been prompted by Mr Ls 
unsuccessful attempt to close the account for his bond, was for general information 
purposes only and the suggestion to call the Customer Service Centre was to discuss things 
further if someone still wished to close their account. 
As part of my considerations I also cannot ignore that Mr L was sent a welcome letter 
highlighting the importance of reading enclosed information about the bond, which made 
clear that after 14 calendar days it would not be possible to close the account until the bond 
matured  unless in the event of the death of a sole account holder. Mr L himself also 
acknowledges in his submissions to this service that he understood the money was tied in 
until the date of maturity. 
I am sure Mr L is aware that interest rates can go up and down over time, and that 
depending on the movements of the interest rates, having a fixed interest rate means this 
can put someone in a worse or better financial position. Mr L agreed to the terms and 
conditions of this bond. And the interest rate offered by Coventry for this bond reflected the 
interest rates they were prepared to offer at the time Mr L took out the bond. The fact that 
interest rates have since changed does not automatically mean the terms and conditions of 
the bond can be ignored. Equally had interest rates gone down, I suspect Mr L would not 
have found it fair had Coventry ignored the terms and conditions of his bond to move him to 
a lower paying bond. 
Ive also considered whether there was anything to suggest that Mr L urgently needed 
access to the funds in question. However, given Mr Ls motive for cancelling the bond was to 
move the funds to an account with better paying interest, I think its reasonable to say Mr L 
did not have any urgent need of these funds. 
While I have no doubt Mr L is frustrated with having locked his money into the bond until 
December 2024 at the interest rate he has, taking everything into account - including what 
Mr L has said about the information on the webpage - I think Coventry have acted fairly and 
reasonably in applying the terms and conditions of the bond and declining Mr Ls request to 
cancel it. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman