DRN-3270732
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUCL)s 
decision to reject a claim she made under her home and buildings insurance policy. 
All references to the underwriter AAUCL in my decision include its agents.
What happened
In June 2021 Mrs S made a claim to AAUCL for damage to her bungalow from water leaking 
into the ceiling. Mrs S said the damage occurred in August 2020. Since then shed arranged 
for remedial repairs to be done by builders. 
AA instructed a Surveyor to inspect the damage to see if it was covered under the policy. 
They reported that previous builders had carried out some works to the property in 
September 2020 and again around Christmas time  but this hadnt stopped the water from 
leaking into Mrs Ss home. Other builders advised her that the cause of the damage was 
caused by an insufficient joist supporting a dormer added to the bungalow around twenty 
years before. Builders advised Mrs S that as the joist was timber, over time, this has led to 
the building bowing as the joist cannot support the weight. And this has led to the water 
coming into the property.
The Surveyor found the ceilings had dropped and also a window in the property, causing 
water to leak in. They reported that the cause of damage was gradual and caused by poor 
workmanship. And so as these causes were excluded under the policy, AA declined Mrs Ss 
claim. 
Mrs S asked us to look at her complaint, as AAUCL didnt uphold it. She was unhappy with 
its decision. She said AAUCL had given different reasons for declining the claim and she felt 
it had relied on false information when doing so. Mrs S said shed instructed roofers to come 
out and fix the problem  rather than make a claim. She had works carried out to the 
property in 2018 which led to the ceiling bowing, but remedial work was signed off as 
meeting Buildings Regulations. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found the 
Surveyors report was clear in the reasons why the claim should be declined. Although Mrs S 
had provided a Building Regulation Certificate for works in 2018, the investigator said this 
didnt mean her claim should be met. As there was no other supporting information to 
contradict the Surveyors opinion, the investigator didnt think AA had acted unreasonably  
as Mrs S hadnt shown her claim was valid. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She says she arranged for the roof to be repaired and has provided proof 
of this from 2020. But the leak continued. Shes provided proof that works carried out in 2018 
were approved. So she doesnt agree with the Surveyors opinion that the cause of damage 
is due to a gradually operating cause or poor workmanship. 
As Mrs S didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy with AAUCL provides cover for specific insured perils such as storm, flood, 
fire, or accidental damage. It isnt unusual for a standard home and buildings insurance 
policy  like the one Mrs S held with AAUCL  to exclude cover for damage caused 
gradually or by poor workmanship. Standard insurance policies dont provide cover for every 
eventuality. 
I understand that Mrs S had previous works done to the property in 2018. And she has paid 
for works to be carried out to her property in 2020 before making a claim to AAUCL. Ive 
read her reasons for doing this  rather than immediately contacting AAUCL to make a 
claim. She says she didnt intend to claim under the policy and wanted to get the repairs 
done as soon as possible. But due to the pandemic it was difficult to arrange for a tradesman 
to attend promptly  and so some temporary fixes were done to alleviate the water coming 
through. She was advised that she needed the roof replaced and has paid for this work. 
It seems the works done didnt solve the problem and water continued to leak into the 
property. And Ive seen the Building Regulations Certificate Mrs S provided for works carried 
out in 2018. But this doesnt mean that AAUCL is therefore responsible for meeting Mrs Ss 
claim for the damage from August 2020 - unless the damage is shown to be caused by a 
one- off insurable event covered under the policy.
The Surveyor provided a report along with photos which show the damage to Mrs Ss 
property. The drop in the ceiling and a landing window  according to the Surveyor  hasnt 
occurred due to a one-off insurable event. This has happened over a period of time causing 
water to leak into the property. The Surveyor reported cracks in the walls, cracks to the 
bowed ceiling(s) and water stained damage.
The Surveyor reported the following:
policyholder told us that in September 2020, the roof over the porch and the garage 
was retiled as she thought that this was the cause of ingress. However, water 
continued to enter and further investigations by her builders revealed that the joist 
supporting the dormer is insufficient. It is not supporting the weight of the building 
and has allegedly bowed in the middle, causing the ceilings and window to have 
dropped.
I understand that Mrs S doesnt feel that AAUCL has given a clear reason for declining her 
claim. But I think the Surveyors explanation of the damage along with the photos and the 
information Mrs S gave is consistent. The report concluded that it was possible for a claim 
for internal damage to be covered under the Accidental Damage part of the policy  but the 
exclusions for gradual damage and poor workmanship applied under this peril. In AAUCLs 
final response to Mrs Ss complaint, it set out the two exclusions it was relying on to decline 
the claim. So I think AAUCL was clear here. I think it was reasonable for AAUICL to rely on 
the professional opinion of the independent Surveyor who inspected the damage. I dont 
think there is any evidence that the damage was caused by a one-off insured peril. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S. And I appreciate that her circumstances during the period 
between August 2020 and June 2021 were even more difficult due to family illness. But I 
cant fairly conclude that AAUCL acted unreasonably when it decided to decline her claim. I 
think the information shows that the cause of the damage was excluded under the policy. 
And this means Im not asking AAUCL to do any more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman