DRN-2405328
The complaint
Miss W says that she was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) by Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) in December 2010.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicators for the following 
reasons.
Miss W says that she mis-informed by Halifax that taking out the URCA would increase her 
credit rating and enable her to get a better rate on a mortgage and this was the only reason 
she took it out.
Halifax says its trained staff would not have advised Miss W that holding an URCA would 
improve her credit rating, but its staff would have said that holding an URCA would get her a 
better rate on a mortgage as this was one of the clear benefits of the product.
Its not possible for to know what was said by Halifax to Miss W, so I can only consider the 
evidence available to me.
Miss W had previously had a fee free account with Halifax, so I think she knew she didnt 
have to pay for an account. 
Halifax has provided evidence that she took the URCA out on line, so I think its more likely 
than not that she did. 
The process online requires the customer to review the key information about the product 
and accept they have read it before the transaction can be completed.
If there had been a separate conversation at the time about the URCA where Miss W was 
mis-informed by Halifax that it would improve her credit rating, I think its more likely than not 
that when she could not see the credit rating mentioned in the on line product information, 
she would have queried this and found out it wasnt true. So, although I dont doubt Miss Ws 
honest recollections, I think its more likely than not her memory is mistaken, and she wasnt 
told the URCA would improve her credit rating.
In telling Miss W the URCA would enable her to get a better rate on a mortgage, in my view 
Halifax did nothing wrong as it was entitled to put this forward as a commercial proposition.
The URCA benefits included worldwide family travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, 
home emergency cover, car breakdown service, card and accident protection and better 
rates for overdrafts of up to £300.
Miss W registered immediately after the sale for the mobile phone insurance, benefitted 
soon after from the better overdraft rates; and evidence from her bank account transactions 
shows she was able to use many of the benefits if she chose to do so.
So, I think its more likely than not she was provided enough information about the account 
to make an informed decision and I can see why the URCA would have been of interest to 
her. And even if Miss W was advised by Halifax to take the URCA as she says, in my view I 
couldnt say its more likely than not it was unsuitable for her.
So, I dont think that Halifax did anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman