DRN-1352425
The complaint
Mrs C complains Capquest Investments Limited registered an inaccurate default on her 
credit file.
What happened
In 2018 Mrs C brought a complaint to this service with her credit card provider, V. She said V 
had registered a default in May 2015 when it should have been registered in June 2013. V 
argued it hadnt applied a default on Mrs Cs credit file. It had sold the debt to Capquest. Our 
adjudicator upheld the complaint. He said V should have defaulted the debt before selling it 
to Capquest. He recommended V buy back the debt in order to remove or backdate the 
default. V accepted this view.
In 2019 Mrs C brought a new complaint to Capquest. She explained the default it had 
registered in May 2015 was inaccurate in terms of the amount and the length of the arrears. 
She said it had applied the default notice based on a payment plan set up in January 2013, 
and not the actual contractual payments from the original credit card agreement. She said 
Capquest terminated her account unlawfully.  She said the Default Notice needed to be 
accurate in terms of both the scope and nature of breach and include an accurate figure 
required to remedy any such breach. Mrs C said having the default on her credit file from 
May 2015 had caused her distress and affected the rate of interest she pays for other credit. 
In its final response Capquest said it purchased the account from V in June 2014 as a live 
account with no default. It said it received no payments for a consecutive number of months 
and so a default was placed on Mrs Cs account in May 2015. Capquest said the notice of 
default showed the arrears value which was on Mrs Cs account at the time her account 
defaulted. It said it was forwarded payments from V in September 2014 which it thought may 
have been the reason Mrs C believed the arrears should be more than at the time Capquest 
defaulted her account. It did not uphold part of Mrs Cs complaint though it did pay her £50 in 
compensation for giving conflicting information about another part of the complaint. 
Mrs C wasnt satisfied and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator concluded 
that Capquest need not take any further action.  He said Capquest had evidenced that it had 
contacted credit reference agencies in March 2019 to request they remove the default that 
they had previously recorded. He went on to say that had Capquest recorded what Mrs C 
understood to be the correct amount on the default in May 2015 this would have potentially 
had a more negative impact on her credit score as the default balance would have been 
higher. Mrs C disagreed with these conclusions and so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C but having done so I wont be asking 
Capquest to do anything further. 
Firstly Id like to thank Mrs C for the very detailed points she provided in support of her 
complaint. I know Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail and in my own words. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. 
Mrs Cs previous complaint concerning V is not at issue here, though it provides some 
context. V has bought back the debt from Capquest and has written it off. The nature of the 
arrangement to pay was also covered in this previous complaint. Mrs C has said the crux of 
her new complaint about Capquest is that the arrears amount on the default notice that 
Capquest applied to her account must be the arrears amount from the original credit 
agreement and not from the payment arrangement. She also says that she was eight 
months behind in payments from her payment arrangement not the five months stated by 
Capquest. So she believes the default issued was invalid and her account was unlawfully 
terminated. Mrs C cited consumer credit legislation to support her argument. 
Mrs C has argued that as she didnt sign a new credit agreement for her payment 
arrangement the default placed by Capquest should have related to the original credit card 
contract.
Ive seen a letter dated January 2013, during the time the debt was owned by V, from a 
collection service. This outlines the instalment plan of £5.13 over 310 months. The letter 
says should the arrangement be broken at any time, debt recovery action will be taken to 
collect the full outstanding balance. Ive also seen a Capquest statement dated November 
2014 and can see Mrs C has paid instalments of £5.13. On page two of the statement it says 
failing to make your minimum payment can mean that you have broken the terms of this 
credit agreement and could result in us taking legal action against you. I note that no 
interest is being charged which is what I would expect with an arrangement to pay plan. So I 
believe Mrs C was in a formal arrangement to pay. The letter outlines the detail and the 
statement confirms Mrs C made payments of the same amount. 
A default record must be accurate and make clear how the default balance was calculated. 
Mrs C has outlined in some detail why she believes the amount that should be on the default 
is incorrect. But she is not disputing that she was in arrears. Capquest said Mrs C had five 
payments due when the default notice was served and the Notice of Default (NOD) says 
you failed to pay the minimum payment(s) due on, it then lists the five missed payments. 
There is nothing on this letter which limits the payments missed to only these five payments 
and Mrs C has said she missed eight payments. And the payment amount is as per the 
payment agreement. So Im persuaded Mrs C had missed the payments detailed on the 
NOD, which were payments in the formal arrangement to pay. And she therefore met the 
conditions necessary for Capquest to be able to apply a default to her account. 
Generally speaking an arrangement to pay would not be recorded as a default on a 
consumers credit file unless the terms of the arrangement were broken. And whether the 
arrears covered five months or eight months it does appear the arrangement was broken.  
But even if, as Mrs C has said, this wasnt such an arrangement because she says she 
didnt sign anything with the collection service, and she was more than 5 months in arrears, 
Capquest was accepting these payments as token repayments. And then Mrs C fell into 
arrears, which she agrees she did. In this situation Capquest would be entitled to treat the 
account as if it was sufficiently in arrears to apply a default.
Mrs C has said the default has caused her distress as it was inaccurate. Im sorry to hear 
this. When making a decision I must look at the impact of a businesss action on a 
consumer. In this case even if I were satisfied the content of the default was incorrect, and 
Im not, I dont believe there would have been any tangible impact on her credit file. At the time there were many other defaults on other accounts on Mrs Cs credit file. These, 
unfortunately, would have made it very difficult for her to obtain credit. 
I do understand that Mrs C is concerned Capquest has unlawfully terminated her account. 
We are an informal dispute resolution service and though I must take account of the law 
when I make a decision its not my role to determine if Capquest has acted unlawfully.  That 
is for the courts to decide. My role is to determine what is fair and reasonable, taking 
account of the law, in the particular circumstances of the complaint.
Both parties agree the account was in arrears by five months or more and Im satisfied this 
was sufficient arrears for Capquest to apply a default. Mrs C has confirmed the default has 
been removed.  So Im satisfied Capquest need not do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman