DRN-2432359
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says 
L2G irresponsibly lent him this loan as he was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G 
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mr S complaint. Mr S disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S could 
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
L2G provided Mr S with a loan for £500 in December 2019. It had an APR of 1275.7% and 
was to due be repaid over a period of around 18 months in 78 weekly instalments of £26.37, 
which meant the total amount to be repaid was £2,056.86. 
L2G says it agreed to Mr S application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
on Mr S. The information Mr S provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be 
able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. But it, in any event, 
adjusted Mr S expenditure declaration to account for the outstanding credit and this still 
showed the required payments were affordable. L2G says, in these circumstances it was 
reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr S has said he was in financial difficulty and has 
provided us with his bank statements.  
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is that 
this was Mr S first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mr S was asked to 
provide details of his income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what it was told. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing anything too 
alarming and Mr S lack of any previous lending with L2G, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for L2G to rely on the payments being affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to 
be.
I accept that Mr S actual circumstances at the time are more accurately reflected in his bank 
statements. And the reason why he might not have been able to repay is clear when these 
are considered. But L2G could only make its decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve extended into L2G asking Mr S to provide his bank statements.  
Equally its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender 
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding 
to lend to Mr S - it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the information 
it mightve been provided didnt tell the whole story. L2G reasonably relied on the information 
provided with and given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of history with 
Mr S, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan. 
Ive also thought about what Mr S has said about the terms of this loan. The amount he is 
being expected to repay can only be described by any reasonable observer as eye-watering. 
I appreciate making payments will be difficult and sympathise with Mr S. But the credit 
agreement makes no attempt to disguise and arguably brazenly sets out just how egregious 
these terms are. And as Mr S accepted these terms, the payments appeared affordable and 
there isnt anything on file, at least, to demonstrate L2G actively took advantage of Mr S 
obvious financial difficulty (the credit search didnt set out the full extent of Mr S position), 
overall I find that L2G didnt unfairly provide this loan given all the circumstances. 
So I dont think that L2G treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with this 
loan. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr S complaint, I would remind L2G of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance in light of Mr S apparent difficulty repaying this loan, should it choose to collect 
payments from him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman