DRN-2907971
The complaint
Mr As complaint is that HSBC UK Bank PLC failed to advise him in 2016 that his father 
(Mr R) and sister (Miss W) would incur a capital gains tax (CGT) liability if a property jointly 
owned by them was transferred into Mr As sole name. Mr A says that, due to the increase in 
value of the property, the CGT payable by Mr R and Miss W is now much higher than it 
would have been if the transaction had gone through in 2016. Mr A wants HSBC to pay 
compensation for the increase in CGT.
What happened
Mr A was the joint owner of a property with Mr R and Miss W. The property was held as 
tenants in common, with Mr R having a 71% beneficial interest and Mr A and Miss W each 
having a 14.5% beneficial interest.
Mr A had a mortgage with HSBC on the property in his sole name, taken out in 2008. In 
2016 Mr A applied to HSBC for additional borrowing of £150,000. The purpose of the 
advance, as recorded in HSBCs notes is repay Dad for Sisters share of house. In fact, the 
intention was that the property would be transferred into Mr As sole name. As the existing 
mortgage was already in Mr As sole name, there was no need to repay this, and the new 
loan would be a further advance (or Homeowner Loan, in HSBCs terminology). The 
transaction went ahead in 2016.
Mr A said that it wasnt until 2019 that he found out Mr R and Miss W were still on the title. 
He said the CGT they had to pay was higher than if the transfer had taken place in 2016, 
because the property had increased in value.
In February 2021 Mr A contacted HSBC because hed discovered that his father and sister 
were still on the title deeds. Mr A had thought HSBC had arranged the transfer of title at the 
same time as the mortgage. HSBC acknowledged that Mr A had been given incorrect 
information in 2016 and that he should have been told that he, Mr R and Miss W would need 
to arrange the transfer of title themselves. HSBC offered compensation of £300.
Mr A didnt accept this and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said that if 
the transfer had gone through in 2016, the CGT payable by Mr R and Miss W would be less 
than it is now. He wants HSBC to compensate them for the additional CGT liability.
Mr A complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr A is unhappy about the costs 
involved in the transfer of title, both in relation to legal fees and the CGT liability for Mr R and 
Miss W. Although Mr A had told our investigator that the transfer had gone through in 2019, 
he also provided information from an accountant about potential CGT liability for Mr R and 
Miss W if the transfer was to have taken place in March 2021. Thus it is unclear if the 
transfer has, in fact, already taken place, but nothing turns on this in relation to the outcome 
of this complaint. 
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Mr A would have had legal fees to pay in any event, so didnt think HSBC should be 
required to reimburse these. He thought the £300 HSBC has offered Mr A for not telling him 
hed need to do this in 2016 was fair. The investigator also explained that he didnt think we 
could look at any CGT liability incurred by Mr R and Miss W  because they werent HSBCs 
customers.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators findings. He said that if Mr R had died without the 
matter being resolved, there could have been inheritance tax (IHT) implications which might 
have been very expensive for him. He also said he would complain to HSBC on Mr Rs 
behalf.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has accepted that it should have told Mr A in 2016 that he, Mr R and Miss W would 
need to arrange the transfer of title themselves. I can see that this caused Mr A 
inconvenience and upset when he found out the property was still in joint names. Overall, I 
think the £300 offered by HSBC is fair and proportionate compensation for this. The legal 
cost of the transfer would always have been an expense for which Mr A, Mr R and Miss W 
would be liable, and so theres no basis on which it would be reasonable to order HSBC to 
reimburse these costs.
As far as the CGT liability is concerned, the investigator was correct in explaining to Mr A 
that we can only consider a complaint against HSBC from its customer. This means that I 
cant take into account any additional CGT Mr R or Miss W might have had to pay as a result 
of the transfer not having taken place in 2016. 
I see that Mr A has told the investigator that he might look into complaining again to HSBC 
on behalf of Mr R. But I think it is only right to explain here that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service wouldnt be able to look at a complaint about any losses that might have been 
incurred by Mr R or Miss W, because they arent HSBCs customers and so wouldnt be 
considered eligible complainants under our rules. I wouldnt want Mr A to be under the 
misapprehension that we would be able to consider a complaint brought on behalf of family 
members where they arent customers of HSBC in relation to this particular mortgage 
account. Mr R and Miss W would need to pursue any claim against HSBC in court.
Ive also noted what Mr A has said about potential IHT liability and what might have 
happened if Mr R had passed away before the issue over the transfer of title was resolved. 
But I cant take into account speculative situations which didnt happen when deciding what 
compensation is fair and reasonable. Mr A hasnt incurred any IHT liability as a result of any 
act or omission on the part of HSBC and so has suffered no loss in respect of the 
hypothetical scenario hes put forward here.
I do have sympathy for the situation affecting Mr A, Mr R and Miss W. But, for the reasons 
explained above, I can only take into account how this has affected Mr A, as HSBCs 
customer. Consequently, I am satisfied that the £300 offered by the bank is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the £300 offered 
by HSBC UK Bank Plc is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I simply leave it to Mr 
A to decide if he wants to accept it in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman