DRN-4227912
The complaint
Mr S complains about his commercial mortgage with Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
Mr S had a commercial mortgage with Santander, secured over two business premises. He 
acts both as a sole trader and as the owner of a limited company, and qualifies as a micro-
enterprise under our rules.
Mr S first took out his loan in 2007. In 2017 he asked Santander to agree further borrowing. 
Mr S says the process was frustrating and subject to much delay, but the further borrowing 
was finally agreed towards the end of the year. It was a new, larger, mortgage to replace the 
old one rather than an extension of the existing loan.
In 2022, Santander got in touch with Mr S and asked him about his proposals for repayment 
of the loan, as it was coming to the end of its five year term.
Mr S complained. He said hed understood he was taking a loan over a 12 year term. He 
accepts that the loan documentation he signed says that the term was only five years. But 
he says that that wasnt what was discussed or agreed in 2017 and if it had been explained 
to him that the term was only five years he wouldnt have gone ahead. He says he was so 
frustrated by the delays and difficulties in 2017 that in the end he signed anything they put 
in front of me to get things resolved. Mr S asked Santander to extend the term to what hed 
understood it would be, but it refused. Mr S brought his complaint to us, saying hed had to 
re-finance the loan elsewhere on more expensive terms. 
Santander said that the member of staff Mr S dealt with in 2017 has since left the bank. But 
the paperwork Mr S signed at the time makes clear this was a five year loan, and there isnt 
any evidence that any other term was discussed at the time. 
Our investigator said that the loan agreement was for five years, and thought that was made 
clear at the time. Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked very carefully at what Mr S has said, as well as the evidence from the time. I 
understand Mr Ss strength of feeling  he feels hes been treated very unfairly. He didnt 
appreciate the loan was only over five years; that wasnt what he wanted or what he 
discussed at the time, and had he realised he wouldnt have agreed. This loan replaced a 
loan taken out in 2007 over a 20 year term, and the new loan ended in 2022  before the old 
one would have ended, in 2027. 
The evidence from the time is limited. There is an email from March 2017 which appears to 
be initial discussions. One of the options mentioned in that email is extending the term of the 
existing borrowing (which had around ten years left at that point). 
If there was further discussion after that email, the evidence of it hasnt survived. But it 
seems the terms of what Santander was prepared to offer were finalised in April 2017.
Mr S has provided us with a copy of an email from his relationship manager from April 2017, 
in which she refers to a loan amortised over 12 years. That email says that heads of terms 
are attached for further discussion prior to producing formal loan documents. Santander has 
given us a copy of the heads of terms attached to that email, which sets out the broad terms 
on which Santander was prepared to lend. It says:
TermTerm Loan: 5 years with a 12 year amortisation profile
The next document is the loan agreement itself, from December 2017. It says:
Termination Date:60 months from the date of drawdown
Clause 2 of the loan agreement sets out the regular monthly payment, and clause 2(f) says: 
The borrower must repay any remaining balance of the loan, together with any 
interest  by no later than the Termination Date
So while the loan agreement also says that the monthly payments are calculated based on a 
12 year amortisation profile, it also makes clear that the actual loan term is five years not 12.
I dont have any other evidence of the discussions from 2017. Neither Mr S nor Santander 
have been able to provide further evidence. But the evidence I do have is clear. While in the 
initial stages Santander was considering options  which may have included a longer as well 
as a shorter term  by the time it finalised what it was prepared to offer in April 2017, it 
required a five year term and for Mr S to repay his debts elsewhere as a condition of taking 
this further borrowing.
Im satisfied Mr S would have seen the heads of term document at the time. It was attached 
to an email hes given to us. The heads of term document makes clear, in plain language, 
that the loan was for a five year term. Although it was calculated with a 12 year amortisation 
profile, that doesnt make it a 12 year loan. This profile means the monthly payments are 
lower, and there is a final balance outstanding at the end of the term  as clause 2(f) of the 
loan agreement says  but the length of the loan is separate to the amortisation profile.
Ive taken into account Mr Ss recollection. But there is no documentary evidence to support 
his recollection that he was told that the loan was over anything other than a five year term. I 
dont doubt the honesty of his recollection. But memory is fallible, and it may be that he was 
remembering a discussion about the amortisation period rather than the loan term, or 
remembering the term of the previous loan this one replaced. The fact is there is no 
documentary evidence from the time that suggests there were discussions  other than at a 
very early stage  about borrowing over anything other than a five year term.
And while Mr S might have been frustrated by the time taken between April and December 
2017, he accepted in his complaint form to us that the loan documentation clearly says it 
was over a five year term and that he should have read the terms properly. This is a 
commercial mortgage, entered into by Mr S as part of his business, and therefore there is an 
onus on him as a reasonably diligent businessman to read and understand the terms before 
agreeing to them. 
Im satisfied that Santander made clear, during the negotiations and when Mr S signed the loan agreement, that the loan was being offered over a five year term. And it follows that it 
wasnt unreasonable for Santander to expect repayment at the end of the term. I cant fairly 
hold Santander responsible for the costs Mr S has incurred in refinancing.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman