DRN-3578335
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not fairly compensate 
them after it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a loan. 
What happened
RBS upheld a complaint Mrs and Mr R made about PPI. On 14 January 2020, it wrote to 
them to say it had calculated their net compensation for that mis-sale to be £1,281.12. The 
letter also informed Mrs and Mr R that if they had any arrears with RBS, their compensation 
would be used to reduce those arrears before any payment was made. 
No payment was made to Mrs and Mr R and so they complained to this service. RBS then 
told us that Mrs and Mr R owed it over £12,000 and so it was keeping their PPI 
compensation back to reduce those arrears. 
Mrs and Mr R said that they had been sequestrated (or declared bankrupt) and were 
discharged in 2011, so their debt didnt exist after that time.  They said they thought that 
RBS wouldnt be able to chase them for an unpaid debt after 10 years. They wanted RBS to 
pay the compensation directly to them. 
Our adjudicator looked at this and said he thought Mrs and Mr R had granted a trust deed to 
their creditors. He said he thought it was fair for RBS to keep the compensation back despite 
the trust deed. 
Mrs and Mr R disagreed with what our adjudicator said. They said they were never in a trust 
deed and were in sequestration, or what they described as full bankruptcy 
As Mrs and Mr R disagreed with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr R, but I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, so I dont have to consider what happened at the 
point of sale. Im just looking at whether RBS fairly compensated Mrs and Mr R. 
Sequestration or a trust deed? 
Mrs and Mr R told us they were never in a trust deed. Looking at the excerpt Ive seen of the 
loan account, it seems Mrs and Mr R may have run into financial difficulties in 1999. I can 
see that a default notice was issued in September 1999. Ive seen evidence from RBS to 
indicate Mrs and Mr R then granted a trust deed to their creditors. The trust deed became 
protected on 31 August 2000. RBSs claim in that trust deed was £12,027.56, which 
represented the outstanding loan balance at that time. 
I cannot see that RBS received any dividends (or payments) in respect of the trust deed. It 
looks as though Mrs and Mr R were discharged in or around March 2005. RBS wrote the 
loan off shortly afterwards. 
These events all took place before the sequestration discharge in 2011 that Mrs and Mr R 
told us about. RBS told us it didnt have a claim in the sequestration and I have not seen any 
evidence to suggest it did. On that basis, I am satisfied our adjudicator was right to address 
a protected trust deed when he sent his view to Mrs and Mr R.  
Trust deed
A protected trust deed is an alternative to sequestration. It is a legally binding agreement 
between Mrs and Mr R and their creditors, which is administered by a trustee. Mrs and Mr R 
would have transferred their property to the trustee, who has the power to collect and realise 
assets, and distribute the estate among creditors according to their respective rights and 
preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy is, as an asset, usually 
vested in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the creditors. A trust
deed will invariably include provisions relating to the discharge of the consumer from her 
debts, the restoration to her of any surplus and the discharge of the trustee.
What do I need to take into account? 
As I said above, I must consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. I have to apply the rules that apply to this service as set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA). Those rules are known as the DISP rules and they can be found online 
in the FCAs handbook. 
DISP 3.6.4R says I have to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. I am mindful that the relevant law in this case is Scots law.
In a case very similar to Mrs and Mr Rs complaint, the Inner House of the Court of Session 
held that a business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from 
she was discharged when her trust deed came to an end. The case is called Donnelly v 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] CSIH 56. However, when the business learned it had lost 
its appeal, it asked the Outer House of the Court of Session  in Royal Bank of Scotland v 
Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106  to set aside or undo the consumers discharge. This would re-
open the trust proceedings and allow it to assert its right of set-off.
The court held that the trustees failure to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the 
consumers creditors was clearly a mistake. As such, the court said it could and usually 
would set aside the consumers discharge  unless there were exceptional circumstances 
which would make it inconvenient and unjust. In that case, the court concluded that there 
were exceptional circumstances and refused to reverse the consumers discharge. It took 
into account a number of factors, including: the time that had passed since the consumers 
discharge; the duration of, and misery caused by, the protracted litigation; the fact that the 
outstanding sum was paltry from the businesss perspective (and in proportion to the legal 
fees likely to have been incurred) but not an insignificant sum for the consumer; and, that 
there would be adverse consequences for the consumer and no obvious means to alleviate 
them.
How does this affect Mrs and Mr R? 
In light of the above judgments, it seems unlikely that RBS would be able to persuade a 
court that it could keep Mrs and Mr Rs compensation back unless it asked the court to set aside (or cancel) their discharge from the trust deed. And it is possible that the courts 
decision may not be in RBSs favour. 
Even so, I have to apply a wide test of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of this case. I am satisfied it is fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce what 
was outstanding when Mrs and Mr Rs trust deed came to an end. 
It seems to me that both RBS and Mrs and Mr R owe each other some money. RBS owes 
Mrs and Mr R their PPI compensation. Mrs and Mr R owe RBS something from the loan 
they borrowed that was never paid back in full. When two parties owe each other money, it 
seems only fair that they each pay what they owe.
I know that when they were discharged from the trust deed, Mrs and Mr R were no longer 
liable to repay loan. And RBS had written off the debt. But neither the trust deed nor the 
write off extinguished the debt  the debt was still there, but Mrs and Mr R didnt have to pay 
it back. When Im looking at whats fair and reasonable, I cant say it would be fair for RBS to 
pay Mrs and Mr R over £1,200 when they hadnt repaid and still owed RBS more than that. 
I said above that PPI compensation would usually be an asset of the trust. So if the trustee 
had pursued a complaint, as would usually be expected, RBS would have been able to keep 
the compensation back to reduce what Mrs and Mr R owed it. So if the trust had been 
administered without error, RBS would have kept the compensation back some time ago 
before Mrs and Mr R were discharged. 
I know that Mrs and Mr R strongly believe they didnt grant a trust deed. However, Im 
satisfied they did and that it was fair for RBS to keep the compensation back in spite of that 
trust deed. Even if I was considering sequestration rather than a trust deed, the end result of 
my decision would have been the same. For the same reasons as Ive set out above, I would 
still have found that it would have been fair for RBS to keep the compensation back despite 
the sequestration discharge. 
It follows then that I dont uphold the complaint and I dont need to tell RBS to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman