DRN-3237089
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited didnt provide him with the service it should have 
when he asked to come off his payment plan.
What happened
Mr S had a payment plan in place on his account. He says his financial circumstances 
improved and he called Vanquis to come off the payment plan but was told this couldnt 
happen. He says he was told the only way to change his account status was to pay the full 
outstanding balance and close the account. 
Vanquis says that Mr S contacted it in January 2021 to discuss going on a payment plan 
following an income and expenditure assessment from a third party. It says it put Mr S 
figures into its system and a long term payment plan of £32 a month was agreed, and 
income and charges suspended. It says Mr S was not told he could remove the payment 
plan at any time and was told the arrangement would be reviewed in May 2021 in order to 
ensure £32 was still affordable. Mr S contacted it in March 2021 and Vanquis says that due 
to the requests he made he was transferred to different agents. It said it hadnt done 
anything wrong by not removing the arrangement from Mr S account. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that when Mr S contacted Vanquis in 
January 2021 he was told that because he had already had several temporary payment 
arrangements in place, a temporary arrangement could no longer be offered, and a new long 
term arrangement was required. He was also told that the new arrangement could mean he 
would lose access to his card and was potentially terminal. A letter confirming the terms was 
then sent. He said that Mr S wasnt told he would be able to come off the payment plan and 
return to contractual terms. Given this he didnt think Vanquis had acted unfairly. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view and asked that his complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S is upset that he wasnt able to come off the payment plan and 
have this reflected on his credit file when his circumstances improved. However, for me to 
uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Vanquis had made a mistake or 
treated Mr S unfairly.
I have looked through the contact notes and listened to the calls provided and these show 
that before Mr S contacted Vanquis in January 2021, he had already been provided with 
previous short term arrangements. He had late payment charges on his account in the early 
part of 2020 and set up a three month payment plan in March 2020, just before the start of 
lockdown. This suggested that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties before the 
lockdown. He then had further short term payment plans put in place before he contacted 
Vanquis in January 2021.
When Mr S called Vanquis in January 2021 he explained his situation and was told that 
because he had previously had short term payment plans in place this option had now 
expired and it would look at a long term payment plan. Given Mr S history and that his 
financial situation hadnt improved such that he would return to his contractual payments, I 
do not find it unreasonable that Vanquis no longer provided the option of a short term 
payment plan and instead offered a long term alternative. Mr S was told the interest and 
charges would be stopped but that his credit file would still be affected, and he may lose 
access to his card. He was also told this would potentially be a terminal arrangement and 
would be reviewed very nine months. 
Having considered the information Mr S was provided with in January 2021 I think he was 
made aware of the type of arrangement he was entering. The letter sent confirming the 
details of the plan said the plan would be reviewed to assess the affordability and didnt 
suggest that Mr S could exit this and return to the account contractual terms. 
Therefore, while I understand that Mr S wanted to have the payment plan removed from his 
account, I do not find I can say that Vanquis treated him unfairly or made a mistake by not 
doing this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman