DRN-4495213
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) 
dealt with his claim for money back in relation to a purchase hed made using his credit card. 
What happened
On 21 May 2022 Mr A bought four graphics cards from an online retailer using his AESEL 
credit card. Two of the cards cost £600 and two cost £1,800  so he paid £4,800. The goods 
were posted to him. It looks like three packages were picked up from a Royal Mail delivery 
office on 24 May 2022. Mr A said none of the graphics cards were inside the packages. Ive 
seen he contacted the supplier on 25 May 2022 to let it know. The supplier wrote back the 
next day to ask for the tracking number and details of whether the packaging looked like it 
had been tampered with. Mr A responded to say it didnt look like the boxes had been 
tampered with. The supplier wanted to check what item was missing, and Mr A said he didnt 
receive anything. The supplier asked for pictures of the packaging. Mr A sent a picture of 
one of the packages. The supplier asked for pictures of the other packages. It looked like it 
didnt receive a response so on 10 June 2022 it said it wasnt able to proceed. 
Mr A says he contacted AESEL at the beginning of June 2022 as well to ask for help, and 
AESEL asked for evidence from him  although the notes indicate this was done for goods 
being not as described or defective rather than for not having been received. 
I cant see AESEL received further information from Mr A. But the dispute was reopened in 
October 2022 and AESEL asked Mr A to speak with Royal Mail. It said it could submit a 
dispute with the supplier. The notes indicate Mr A told AESEL he was convinced the 
package was tampered with by Royal Mail or the supplier. 
Mr A said he contacted Royal Mail around December 2022 and it told him the packages had 
been damaged leading to missing items. He says he sent this information to the supplier, but 
it didnt offer to help. He contacted AESEL to put in a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in February 2023. He requested a full refund. 
AESEL sent a response to the claim on 24 March 2023. It said the evidence showed three 
packages had been dispatched and collected. It said the packages weighed 2kg, 5kg, and 
10kg respectively and so the contents were present. It said it was satisfied the supplier had 
shown the items were delivered. 
Mr A wanted to complain about the outcome of the claim, and so he referred matters to the 
Financial Ombudsman. In summary, he said AESEL hadnt adequately investigated the 
claim. He said the supplier was unhelpful and subsequently went out of business. He 
referred to an email hed received from the Royal Mail saying the packages weight didnt 
match the declared weight on the label. He also highlighted on one of the boxes it said 4 
items. He requested a full refund. 
AESEL sent a final response to the complaint on 24 May 2023. It said Mr A hadnt evidenced 
the supplier misrepresented the sale or breached the contract. It declined the complaint. 
Mr A asked the Financial Ombudsman to investigate. Our investigator ultimately didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said Mr A would have noticed straight away when collecting the 
packages if they were empty. She said she didnt know why one of the boxes said 4 items 
on it. She noted the Royal Mail delivery sticker didnt appear to have been tampered with. 
And she also referred to the email Mr A received from Royal Mail and said she thinks this 
was to provide information to Mr A rather than to confirm what actually happened. 
Mr A didnt accept the outcome. In summary, he said the weights dont tally up to the actual 
weights of the items. He said he didnt initially suspect tampering because the packaging 
appeared intact. But he said Royal Mail told him this wasnt the case. He referred to an email 
saying The items have been damaged in transit as they passed through our sorting 
machinery and contents have become separated from the packaging. He said this proves 
the sorting machine caused the items to become separated from their packaging. Mr A says 
AESEL didnt take this on board or investigate matters properly. He said he didnt notice the 
items werent present when he picked them up because he trusted things would be in order. 
He also said that tampering can be done skilfully and that it wont always show obvious 
signs.  
As things werent resolved, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
I asked our investigator to ask for some further information from the parties. I wanted to find 
out more about how the supplier calculated the weights of the items. I also wanted to see if 
Mr A had any evidence of when he first raised the dispute; why there appeared to be some 
delays; whether there was any further supporting information he could supply from the Royal 
Mail; and details of whether a separate claim was raised through the Royal Mail. 
The supplier said the weights were calculated using the overall weight of the entire package. 
Mr A, however, said the goods in total should have weighed about 8kg, and not 17kg. Mr A 
also responded to the questions our investigator asked him. He reiterated the weights were 
wrong. He said there were no delays from his side. He said hed not received a response 
from the Royal Mail and that AESEL should have dealt with the claim for him.  
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr A and AESEL that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
What I need to consider is whether AESEL  as a provider of financial services  has acted 
fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr As request for getting his money back. Its 
important to note AESEL isnt the supplier. Ive gone on to think about the specific card 
protections that are available. In situations like this, AESEL can consider assessing a claim 
under section 75 or raising a chargeback. 
Section 75 is a statutory protection that enables Mr A to make a like claim against AESEL for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an 
agreement it had with him for the provision of goods or services. But there are certain 
conditions that need to be met for section 75 to apply. The chargeback process provides a way for a card issuer to ask for a payment to be 
refunded in certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the 
relevant card scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
While its good practice for a card issuer to attempt to chargeback where certain conditions 
are met and theres some prospect of success, there are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme that need to be considered. If these are not met, a chargeback 
is unlikely to succeed. And something going wrong with a merchant wont always lead to a 
successful claim. 
Mr A raised a claim through AESEL a couple of weeks after the issue with the delivery. Mr A 
says the investigation was closed prematurely with the reason cited as incomplete set up. 
From what Ive seen AESEL wrote to Mr A asking for information. I asked AESEL about the 
incomplete set up. AESEL said in February 2023 Mr A went through his online account to 
reopen the dispute but didnt follow the steps, so an automated email was sent to him 
advising him of this. This was the email it sent him on 7 February 2023. 
Its not totally clear from the evidence why there was a gap between the dispute being raised 
in June 2022 and the conversations in October 2022 about reopening the dispute and 
contacting the Royal Mail. I cant see whether AESEL was waiting for information from Mr A, 
or whether Mr A was waiting for information from AESEL. AESEL did say in its 10 June 2022 
correspondence to Mr A it needed supporting evidence by 21 June 2022 or it would close 
the dispute. It didnt receive information which is perhaps why the dispute was closed. In any 
event AESEL didnt have enough information at the time to raise a chargeback. But its likely 
that even if it did, the chargeback would have been defended by the supplier because it had 
the proof of postage (and collection), which is likely what would have been required for a 
chargeback defence. 
Ive not seen enough to determine the cause of delays between June and October 2022. Ive 
therefore looked at what happened next and considered the way AESEL ultimately handled 
the claim brought under section 75. 
I can see AESEL asked Mr A to speak to the Royal Mail in October 2022. And it looks like 
Mr A has a response from the Royal Mail from the beginning of December. There was 
another delay and Mr A contacted AESEL in February 2023 to put in his claim. Mr A hasnt 
fully explained the delays here. He says he contacted the supplier, but Ive not got evidence 
thats what happened (until February 2023). I also dont know why it seems he didnt follow 
up with the supplier before this when it asked for pictures of the other packages. I find this 
unusual given how much the items cost. And I think the delays also meant itd be more 
difficult for the parties to investigate what happened. Im also not sure why Mr A said in his 
complaint form that the supplier had gone out of business. 
Overall, while I know Mr A will be disappointed, I dont think AESEL acted unfairly by 
declining the claim in March 2023. To be clear, Ill never know exactly what happened with 
regards to the goods. Something may have gone wrong. As I said, Im not considering a 
complaint against the Royal Mail or the supplier. Im considering a complaint about how 
AESEL handled the claim. Im required to decide complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality. And unlike the courts, Im not able to call witnesses and take sworn evidence for 
example. 
In this case, there are a few unexplained delays; Ive not been supplied sufficient supporting 
information which wouldve been helpful; and theres some curious information thats been 
supplied. Mr A is alleging the supplier has done something wrong with the weights of the items. And 
that the weights of the items dont match up. Mr A has also supplied a response from the 
Royal Mail saying The items have been damaged in transit as they passed through our 
sorting machinery and contents have become separated from the packaging. And that this 
proves the sorting machinery caused the items to detach from their packaging. But weve 
asked Mr A to follow up on this with the Royal Mail and ask for confirmation the response 
specifically referred to the packages that were sent to him, or whether this could be some 
sort of templated response. Hes not supplied anything further from the Royal Mail. 
Is the most likely thing to have happened that every box was weighed incorrectly, every box 
was damaged, and all the contents have become separated? Mr A is alleging theres 
problems at every stage here for every parcel from the Royal Mail and the supplier. And hes 
said he didnt notice he picked up three empty boxes because they werent clearly tampered 
with and he thought everything was in order. All of this is possible, but I dont think, on 
balance, it was unfair for AESEL to conclude this wasnt the most likely thing to have 
happened. Its unlikely there was a problem with the weight of every item, all the items 
became separated from every box (indicating there were items in there to start with), and 
that the Royal Mail then put the boxes back together (empty) and made it look like theyd not 
clearly been tampered with at the point of collection.
As I said, Ill never know what happened. I appreciate its hard to prove youve not received 
something. But based on what Ive seen, on balance, I dont think AESEL acted unfairly by 
declining the claim because I dont think theres sufficient evidence of a breach of contract. 
AESEL said it has nothing further to add. Mr A responded to say, in summary:
He submitted photos of all the packages to the supplier. Hes not sure why it couldnt 
process all the images. 
When he raised the claim, AESEL raised the reason for dispute incorrectly. 
The gap between June and October 2022 occurred because he thought AESEL was 
investigating things. He said he submitted all requested evidence on time. 
He did follow up with the supplier and when the issue remained unresolved, he 
contacted AESEL.
He didnt say the supplier had gone out of business as evidenced by his claim form.
He obtained a further response from Royal Mail that said it could confirm sorting 
machinery caused damage to all parcels. And that the previous response wasnt a 
template. The response also said usually when parcels are damaged it tries to match 
up the contents to the packages but in Mr As case it was unable to do that. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their responses. AESEL hasnt submitted anything further, so 
Ive thought about Mr As points. Hes given some explanations for why there were some 
delays early on in particular up to October 2022, which seem plausible. Its not totally clear 
why there were further delays until February 2023, but I find I have enough to make a 
decision on the complaint. The delays dont make or break the case, I asked for specific 
details to make sure I had a good understanding of the timeline. 
With regards to saying the supplier had gone out of business, I just wanted to find out why 
Mr A said this  but I agree it wasnt during the claim, it was on our complaint form. 
I want to thank Mr A for supplying further evidence from the Royal Mail. Its curious that 
when we asked the Royal Mail for further evidence it said it couldnt access the reference 
numbers and there was no data available. It said it thought this could be due to the time 
thatd passed. The Royal Mail said all claims and enquiries need to be made within 80 days. 
Whereas Mr A supplied evidence that sorting machinery damaged all the parcels and that it 
was unable to match up the contents to the parcels. 
Having considered everything, based on what was supplied to AESEL at the time of the 
claim, I dont find its answer was unfair. As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think it 
was unreasonable AESEL thought it unlikely all the parcels were weighed incorrectly; all the 
parcels were damaged by sorting machinery; all the contents were lost; all the parcels were 
put back together empty by the Royal Mail and made to look like they hadnt been tampered 
with; and this wasnt noticed straight away when they were collected. While I know Mr A will 
be disappointed, I dont find I have the grounds to say that AESEL acted unreasonably when 
it declined the claim, and the subsequent complaint. Im therefore not making any directions.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman