DRN-3642670
The complaint
Ms F complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined her claim for 
subsidence on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F had home insurance that was underwritten by RSA. In 2021 she noticed water on the 
floor of an extension to the property and some cracks in the walls. She made a claim on the 
insurance. 
RSA declined the claim as it said the foundations of the extension werent deep enough to 
account for the type of soil it was built on and to protect against nearby vegetation. It said 
that the exclusion for poor workmanship in the policy would therefore apply and the claim 
wouldnt be covered. 
Ms F made a complaint as she said the documents she received when she bought the 
property confirmed the extension had been signed off by building control, so she couldnt 
have known that the foundations werent deep enough.  She also said RSA had taken too 
long to come to a claim decision.
RSA upheld her complaint about the delays and offered £250 compensation. However it 
maintained its position on the declined claim. Unhappy with this, Ms F brought her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said RSA hadnt done enough 
to show the exclusion applied as she was satisfied it had met the required building 
regulations at the time. And she said as the extension had been built in 2007, it had stood for 
14 years without issue, so it seemed unlikely that it was built poorly. She therefore thought 
RSA should accept the claim and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Ms F accepted our investigators outcome. However RSA didnt. It said that due to the 
vegetation in the area of the extension, the foundations should have been much deeper and 
if they had, the subsidence wouldnt have happened. And it said there were signs of 
subsidence related repairs so it didnt agree the structure had stood for 14 years without 
issue. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the insured to prove an insured peril  
something covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim or 
prove that an exclusion applies in the circumstances. Here Ms F has shown that her property 
has suffered from subsidence. So I need to decide if RSA has done enough to show that the 
exclusion for poor workmanship applies and consider if it has treated Ms F fairly and 
reasonably by applying it in the circumstances.
When applying an exclusion for faulty design and workmanship, wed expect a business to 
firstly show that the structure hasnt been built in line with applicable regulations at the time. 
The foundations of Ms Fs extension were found to be built at a depth of 850mm. It was built 
in 2007 and the building regulations that applied at the time recommend a minimum of 
450mm rising to 750mm in clay soils. So the foundations of the extension met the building 
regulations at the time, taking into account the type of ground.
However RSA has said that there is vegetation in the close vicinity of the extension, so this 
should have been taken into account when the extension was built. And its pointed to 
guidelines from a builder of new homes, who Ill refer to as N, that provides guidance on 
foundation depths based on the type of tree and how close it is to the structure. It says 
based on this guidance, the foundations should have been 2100mm due to a Hawthorn 
within two metres of the structure. 
Ive looked at the guidelines issued by N and I dont agree these apply here. N provides 
guidance for new build houses. Ms Fs claim relates to an extension to her property which 
wasnt a new build. So the builders of the extension werent required to consider this 
guidance. And while they offer a good example of best practice in the building industry, I 
dont think its fair to conclude that just because standards laid out in these guidelines 
werent met, that the extension was built poorly.
Further, the extension was built in 2007 and Ms F discovered the cracks in 2021. This 
means the property stood without issue for 14 years. And had the foundations not been 
sufficient for the structure, Id expect problems to have developed much sooner than this. 
But the fact it stood for many years before subsidence became an issue, persuades me that 
the foundations were built sufficiently deep.
RSA has disputed that the extension has stood for many years without issue. In response to 
our investigators outcome it said that it has a report that shows there were signs of cracking 
that had been repaired, which indicated a previous problem of subsidence. However, despite 
ample opportunity, this report has not been provided to this service. And Ive seen no 
evidence that subsidence had previously occurred in the extension. 
In fact, RSA provided an email from its underwriters that confirmed the pre-purchase survey 
included no mention of subsidence, so they were satisfied Ms F hadnt been aware of a 
problem when she purchased the property. As Ms F purchased the property in October 
2020, that means that RSA agree the structure stood for at least 13 years without displaying 
signs of subsidence. And even if problems had developed immediately after the purchase, 
this still means the foundations were suitable enough to hold the property for a significant 
time. I therefore dont agree that the exclusion for faulty workmanship has been fairly 
applied. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that the relevant building regulations at the time were met and 
the foundations have held the structure without issue for at least 13 years. I therefore dont 
think RSA has done enough to prove the exclusion for faulty workmanship applies and has 
acted unfairly by declining Ms Fs claim on this basis. I therefore agree with our investigator 
that it should accept the claim and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. 
Ms F also complained about the service she received from RSA. Its offered £250 to make 
up for around a two month delay in dealing with her claim. I think this is fair in the circumstances and in line with what I would have directed if it hadnt offered anything. I 
understand Ms F has accepted this amount and received payment, so I wont ask RSA to do 
anything further in this regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Fs complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to accept Ms Fs claim for subsidence and settle it in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, without applying the exclusion for faulty workmanship. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman