DRN-2350713
The complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on dual credit card accounts that started in 
1994. 
Theres only limited information now available about how and when this PPI was sold.   
Mr G thought he took out the PPI when he phoned to apply for a credit card. And that may 
well have been what happened. Lloyds cant confirm how or exactly when PPI was sold to 
Mr G. So, to be as fair as possible to him, Lloyds looked at his complaint on the basis that it 
mightve spoken face to face with Mr G about his application and recommended PPI to him. 
So thats the way our adjudicator assessed this complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Mr G told us that he took out the PPI because he was told it was required and he wasnt 
aware that it was optional. And Mr G says that if hed been given all the relevant information 
he shouldve had, he wouldve been aware that he didnt need this PPI which he feels was a 
waste of his money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr G to be able to remember in detail exactly what was 
discussed when he was sold this PPI so long ago. So I cant know exactly what Lloyds 
mightve said to Mr G when he took out PPI. 
The original paperwork from the sale is no longer available. Lloyds has provided an example 
of a credit card application. This shows that applicants had to say if they wanted PPI added 
on to their credit card  and there was also an option to say it wasnt required. Mr G might 
well have filled in a form like this when he took out this PPI  and if so, he wouldve been 
able to see that having PPI was optional. 
But, given that Lloyds cant show exactly how or when he took out the PPI, just in case this 
isnt like the form Mr G filled in, Im not relying only on this. 
Looking at all the available information and based on what hes told us about his financial 
situation at the time, it looks to me as if Mr G couldve benefitted from having PPI if hed 
needed to claim. 
So, on balance, this makes me think its more likely that Mr G decided he wanted to have the 
benefits PPI offered and Lloyds added PPI to his account at his request, even if 
understandably he no longer recalls that. 
Lloyds said that it would treat this as an advised sale  on other words, as if it had personally 
recommended Mr G to take out PPI. This means Lloyds not only had to give him important 
policy information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover 
it recommended was suitable for Mr G. Looking at the complaint this way gives Mr Gs 
complaint the best chance of success as it imposes an extra obligation on Lloyds. In the 
circumstances I think thats fair  and its how Im going to look at Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G was eligible for the policy. He had some sick pay entitlement through work  he 
mentioned hed have got 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay from his 
employer. But the policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit card repayments for up 
to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As 
Mr G mightve also had some additional costs if he was too unwell to go back to work or 
disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
As well as this, the policy wouldve also protected Mr Gs credit card repayments if he lost 
his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ive taken into account that Mr G mentioned having some other means he couldve 
depended on if he wasnt able to work. But relying on someone else in the event of money 
problems isnt as dependable as having PPI as everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. I dont know if Mr G wouldve always had other means he could rely on to pay 
his credit card bills if he wasnt able to work. So I think PPI was suitable for him.  
There were some policy exclusions and limitations. But it doesnt look as if they wouldve 
affected Mr G. So I dont think that having more information about things the policy didnt 
cover wouldve put Mr G off taking out PPI.
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what 
it might pay out if Mr G made a claim. But Mr G chose to take out the policy  so it looks like 
he wanted this type of cover. It seems to have been affordable for him. Mr G couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay 
for it.
Taking everything into account, I havent seen enough to make me think its likely Mr G 
wouldve made a different decision if clearer policy information had been provided. On 
balance, I think hed still have taken out the policy. 
This means, even if Lloyds didnt explain the policy as clearly as it shouldve done, it makes 
no overall difference to the outcome of his complaint. Thats because I havent seen enough 
to be able to say that Mr G has lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds did wrong when it 
sold him this PPI. So this means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman