DRN-1517603
 
 
Complaint
Ms R, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us that Bank of Scotland 
(BoS) , trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy in or around September 1995. 
Background
Ms R bought the MPPI when she was applying for a mortgage. The MPPI included cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. She says she wasnt given a choice about taking out 
the policy, that it wasnt properly explained to her and that she didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Because Ms R disagrees, her complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms R says she bought the policy during a meeting and that BoS made a recommendation 
that she buy the policy. BoS agrees it made a recommendation. That means BoS needed to 
ensure that the policy was suitable for Ms Rs personal situation and the information it gave 
her about the policy was clear. 
Some of the sale is no longer available. So in reaching my decision, Ive had to rely on the 
paperwork Ive seen plus what I already know about BoSs sales process for this type of 
policy at the time. But I have seen a completed copy of Ms Rs MPPI application form, 
setting out the monthly benefit she needed and the amount shed have to pay each month. 
She also answered some questions to confirm shed be eligible for the cover. I appreciate 
that she did this in a meeting and that parts of the form were printed on the form for her, but I 
would have expected her to review the form before signing it. Ive also seen some 
screenshot information about the sale which suggests there would have been a discussion 
to check she was eligible for the cover.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I think its likely a discussion about MPPI took 
place during the meeting and so Ms R would have been aware she was buying PPI cover. 
And I think it follows on from that that Ms R ought to have been aware that MPPI was 
something she didnt have to buy if she didnt want it. From the available information it looks 
to me as if she decided it was something worth going ahead with. From what Ive seen I think Ms R was eligible for the policy. And I havent seen anything to 
make me think she was put in a worse position by any of the main limitations which are 
usually found in this type of policy. If Ms R made a successful claim for accident or sickness, 
or if she lost her job, the policy would pay out for up to 12 months. Ms R has told us that she 
was entitled to benefits from her employer which meant shed receive full pay for at least six 
months if she wasnt able to work. So the policy would most likely pay out for longer, while 
also being paid in addition to any benefits she might already be receiving. Ms R also told us 
that at the time she had a good amount of savings although that was earmarked for her 
mortgage deposit. Ms R also told us that shed relied on government benefits for several 
months at one point. But these would have only provided limited support and there would still 
have been a real risk of her losing her home if she couldnt keep up her monthly mortgage 
repayments. 
As I havent seen all the paperwork, I cant say that Ms R was given details of the monthly 
cost of the policy  which was initially £34.50 but later went down to £29.50  at the time of 
the sale. BoS says that Ms R was given this information. But given that the policy was 
suitable for Ms R, being a useful benefit that could help her to protect her home at what 
could be a difficult time financially, I think the cost was a worthwhile expense.
I can see its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy was 
sold, including giving the details about how interest worked  to be clear, the monthly 
premiums didnt normally attract interest as long as Ms R kept up her repayments. But, 
having looked at the sale carefully, I think Ms R would still have decided to buy the policy if 
shed been better advised and informed
Ive also thought very carefully about what Ms R has told us in response to our adjudicators 
view. But unfortunately, this doesnt change my decision. Im sorry to disappoint her on this 
occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31July2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman