DRN-3370509
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) delayed the release of funds 
from his account, causing him anxiety and financial loss.  
What happened
In November 2020 Mr C instructed NS&I to transfer £66,00 from his Income Bonds to his 
nominated building society account. NS&I did not immediately act on that instruction, and Mr 
C complained about the delay. The money was not transferred until the middle of January 
2021.  
NS&I said that there had been two delays in making the transfer. The first was the result of 
human error. The second was caused by the need for additional security checks. They had 
taken longer than usual because of smaller teams than usual carrying out those checks. 
They would usually be completed within 48 hours. 
NS&I said that, if the transfer had been processed at the earliest opportunity, the funds 
would have been in Mr Cs building society account by about 24 November 2020. The delay 
was, therefore, nearly two months. 
NS&I calculated the interest that Mr C had lost in that time (£88.56) and reimbursed that, as 
well as offering to pay him £75 in recognition of the distress caused and the inconvenience 
to which Mr C had been put  an increase on its original offer of £50.  
Mr C did not think that was adequate compensation and referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and recommended that NS&I 
increase its offer for non-financial loss by a further £175 to £250. 
NS&I agreed to the investigators recommendation, but Mr C said that he did not believe it 
properly reflected the concerns he had while the money was not in his control. And he 
thought that the random security check which NS&I had carried out was discriminatory. He 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I acknowledged almost immediately that it had been responsible for two delays and that 
Mr C had, as a result, been without his money for nearly two months. It agreed to pay any 
lost interest and to compensate Mr C for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
There is therefore no dispute about the facts in this case. I must however consider whether 
NS&I has done enough to put things right. In my view, having accepted the investigators 
recommendations and increased its offer to £250 (plus the lost interest), it has. 
Mr C replied to the recommendation to say that the investigators suggested figure of £250 
was not the result of a rational, structured calculation. There is however no tariff for 
compensation for non-financial loss  what is fair depends on the individual circumstances of 
the case. I am satisfied that the investigators recommendation here is both fair and is in line 
with the guidance published on the Financial Ombudsman Services website. 
Mr C has also said that the security check was not to protect him but to protect NS&I from 
fraud. He says too that a random check is discriminatory. On the first point, I accept that 
most checks of that kind address the risk that transfer instructions have not been given by 
the genuine customer. In most cases, the financial business would bear the loss if that were 
to happen. So, he may well be right, but that does not mean that checks should not be 
made. 
I do not accept however that NS&Is security check was, or could have been, both random 
and discriminatory. I do not believe that Mr Cs transfer was checked because of any 
characteristic that he possesses. Rather, it was a random check. And I am satisfied that 
NS&Is offer adequately compensates Mr C for the delays caused by it and by the earlier 
error.   
Putting things right
NS&I has made an offer in line with the investigators recommendation. I will however make 
a formal award, so that Mr C can enforce it, should he need to do so.   
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Cs complaint, National Savings and Investments 
should pay Mr C a total of £250 (taking account of any payment already made) in recognition 
of the distress he has suffered and the inconvenience to which he has been put. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman