DRN-3821097
The complaint
D complain that New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital on Tap (COT), failed to refund 
transactions they didnt authorise.
What happened
D, represented here by Mr S, explained that his car was broken into and several items were
stolen. This included a wallet which contained a payment card for Ds COT account, which is
a credit account. Other cards were also stolen at the time.
Mr S explained that whilst he was dealing with the notification to the police and other banks,
he received a message from COT that his card had been used at an Automated Teller
Machine (ATM), but the transaction had been declined. Mr S notified his other card providers
and the police, but has explained that he assumed his COT card was blocked because of
the earlier message hed received, so didnt notify them for a few hours or so after the break
in.
When Mr S notified COT about the loss of his card, he was informed that about £10,000 of
spending had taken place on it since the break-in to his car. The majority of these
transactions had been made using the genuine card and the Personal Identification Number
(PIN) associated to it. Mr S explained what had happened to COT and asked for a refund.
COT looked into the loss but decided not to refund D. Mr S brought a complaint on behalf of
D to COT. They were also unhappy with how COT had dealt with requests from the police
for CCTV footage. COT didnt change their position, believing that either Mr S had provided
the card and PIN to someone to use or that the PIN was written down with the items stolen
from the car. Either way, COT believed D were in breach of their terms. They also didnt
believe theyd delayed assisting the police with their enquiries.
D then brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information
about the complaint. Mr S provided information about what had happened including a report
of the polices investigation. He explained that he hadnt written the PIN down or left it with
his card. Mr S confirmed he didnt use the card for purchases with the PIN, so there was no
opportunity for anyone else to view him using the PIN. Mr S was also unhappy about how
COT dealt with a request from the police about access to CCTV.
COT provided details about the transactions, including attempts to obtain cash from ATMs,
some of which were successful, and others werent because theyd reached the daily card
limit.
After reviewing the complaint, our investigator didnt uphold it, believing that because the
card and PIN were used together, Mr S likely authorised them himself.
D disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of their complaint
which has now been passed to me for a decision. D, through Mr S, commented that they
werent responsible for the disputed transactions and its possible that the PIN was obtained
through some form of technical hack.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D are a business which determines how their complaint is treated. Specifically, in this case,
because theyre not a consumer, the protections contained in the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (CCA 1974) arent relevant. This is in relation to the gross negligence case that COT
has put forward.
COT believed either that Mr S authorised the transactions or kept the PIN together with the
card which is a breach of their terms.
I dont think here that Mr S made the transactions himself because referring to the police
investigation, theres evidence that a local street drinker used the card and PIN to make a
purchase.
Its generally considered unlikely that someone could successfully guess the four figure PIN
due to the very high number of permutations possible (10,000). So, the question here is how
did the PIN become known to the thieves? I appreciate Mr S has said he never kept it written
down with the card, but I dont think theres another plausible explanation for how it became
known to the thieves.
The agreement between COT and D states that:
10.2 You must take all reasonable steps (and ensure that Cardholders do the same)
to keep the Security Details and Card safe and secure. For example:
o do not keep your PIN with the Card;
It goes on to state that:
10.3 If you know or suspect that the Card is lost or stolen, or that the PIN or other
Security Details are known to an unauthorised person you must tell us immediately
by calling us.
The section dealing with unauthorised transactions state:
14.3 We won't refund you any money if you have:
o (b) been grossly negligent with (or intentionally shared) your Card or 
Security Details;
What that means here is that because I think its currently likely the PIN was with the card,
this would fall under the meaning of gross negligence and its reasonable for COT to rely on
the terms of their agreement to deny D a refund. Because D arent a consumer, they dont
fall under the gross negligence exemption for credit accounts provided by the CCA 1974.
Mr S also complained about the timings of COTs assistance to the police. Having looked at
the various dates for requests of assistance, I havent seen anything that would indicate
there were lengthy delays. But, as I think the transactions werent made by Mr S, the lack of
CCTV wouldnt affect the outcome of the complaint.
Ive also thought about the belief that a hack was responsible for these disputed
transactions. Ive seen no evidence that supports that case and I currently think its morelikely than not that the PIN was left written down together with the card in Mr Ss belongings
when it was stolen.
It's unfortunate that COT werent notified earlier about the loss of the card. Mr S believed his
card was protected by the earlier message he received about the ATM withdrawal attempt,
but that notification was to tell him that the transaction had failed due to the daily limit being
reached, not blocked because of fraud. At that point only Mr S was aware of the theft
because he hadnt yet told COT about it. Whilst it wouldnt change the outcome of my
intended decision, it would have reduced the losses incurred by D.
I realise this will be of little comfort to Mr S, but Ive mentioned it because the purchases
would have appeared to COT as though it was him using it due to the use of the card and
PIN. Im currently intending not to uphold this complaint.
I invited Mr S and COT to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Neither COT nor Mr S, on behalf of D, had 
anything further to add about his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against New Wave Capital Limited  
trading as Capital on Tap.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman