DRN-1326023
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain about their bank account with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mrs and Mr A complained to Santander, as they said they started to receive statements on 
their account when they had previously asked that the account was paperless. They also 
complained that the statement dates on their account had changed.
Mrs and Mr A said the paper statements concerned them as they had a previous fraud on 
tier account  and they wanted to know their personal information was safe. So they 
complained to Santander.
Santander looked into the complaint, but it wasnt upheld. It said that the statement period 
changed when the account type changed. Mrs and Mr A previously held a 123 account and 
this was changed to a select account around the same time the statement dates changed. 
Mrs and Mr A remained unhappy  so they brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
the paperless statement issue had been looked at by our service previously. He said that 
although this is a different account, they were all changed for the same reason. Our 
investigator also found the statement period changed when the account type changed, and 
he didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by doing so. 
Mrs and Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me 
to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator is correct in highlighting that the subject matter of Mrs and Mrs As 
complaint regarding the fact they started to receive paper statements has been addressed 
previously by another ombudsman. As this was for a different account, this is not necessarily 
a complaint our service would choose to dismiss  but ultimately Mrs and Mr A are going to 
get the same answer. And I agree with the investigator when he has said Mrs and Mr A 
would have been aware of the reasoning behind this.
The decision to send monthly statements was made because Mrs and Mr As settings were 
set to no correspondence on this account. By changing this setting to monthly, Santander 
were following the regulatory requirements which they had to meet. I also cant see that Mrs 
or Mr A have suffered any detriment by receiving statements for the short period. I can 
understand Mrs and Mr A having fraud concerns, but I cant see that any fraud has been 
committed on this account due to them receiving paper statements. Our investigator has 
also correctly pointed out that our service cant investigate issues that havent happened 
already  like future fraud on the account. 
Something our service hasnt looked into previously is the date range of when the 
statements get produced. Having looked into this carefully, I agree with the investigators 
findings for largely the same reasons. I can see Mrs and Mr As account was changed from a 
123 to a select account around January 2019. This is the same time the account statement 
date changed. Although I can understand why this may have caused Mrs and Mr A some 
inconvenience, its not something Ive found Santander would have had any control over. If it 
were to try and adjust the statement dates to bring them in line with the old dates, Mrs and 
Mr A would effectively be left with a gap in their statement period. Based on this finding, I 
dont find Santander have acted unfairly in these circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman