DRN-2729426
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Experian Limited displayed someone elses county court 
judgement (CCJ) on his credit file.
What happened
In January 2019, a CCJ was registered in the name of another individual who had similar 
details to Mr A. Experian then reported this on Mr As file.
On 24 December 2020, Mr A reported this to Experian. On 29 December 2020, Experian 
amended Mr As file and disassociated him from the other individual. They confirmed this to 
Mr A the following day.
Experian admitted their mistake, apologised, confirmed Mr As file was now correct, refunded 
a payment hed made for their credit monitoring service, and paid him £150 compensation.
A similar incident happened in 2017, which was resolved at the time.
Mr A came to our service. He explained hed been unable to get a balance transfer for his 
credit card because of the CCJ, and so hed been charged a lot of additional interest. He 
asked for a refund of this interest, and for a free subscription to Experians monitoring 
service to help him keep an eye on his file going forward.
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt Experian had already resolved 
things fairly. They explained there hadnt been any searches from potential lenders on 
Mr As Experian credit file, so it didnt look like the CCJ had prevented him from getting any 
particular credit. And they explained that Experians systems didnt let them give out free 
subscriptions, and that it wasnt needed as there were free alternatives.
Mr A asked for a second opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator  Ill explain why.
First, I understand that Mr A wouldve got a real shock when he saw someone elses CCJ on 
his file, and I understand hes gone through a tough time more generally as well. So I can 
empathise with his position, and I understand where hes coming from.
When something like this has gone wrong, my main concern is that its fixed, and that Mr A 
hasnt suffered a loss or that the loss is put right. So Ive thought carefully about that.
Here, Experian acted quite quickly once Mr A told them what had happened. They put 
through the fixes to Mr As file just a couple of working days after he reported the CCJ, then 
they confirmed the changes to him the next day and let him know it might take a week or so 
for them to display on his side. They also explained why the CCJ had mistakenly been 
registered on Mr As file. And they added a disassociation record to Mr As file to help stop 
him from being mixed up with the other individual.
My next concern would be whether the error had caused Mr A any substantial financial loss 
 such as getting unfairly turned down for credit. But according to Experians records, there 
were no searches from potential lenders on Mr As Experian file during the time when the 
CCJ was showing. That means if he got declined for any particular credit, that lender 
wouldve used a different credit reference agency, not Experian. And so it looks like 
Experians mistake didnt cause Mr A to get declined for any particular credit. Mr A did pay 
for a months subscription to Experians monitoring service in order to check his file, but I can 
see that Experian have already refunded that fee, so that loss has already been put right.
I understand that Mr A would like a free subscription to the monitoring service going forward, 
and I see the reasoning behind the request. Unfortunately, its not something that Experians 
systems are set up to do. In any case, there are free alternatives  which well send Mr A the 
details of  so he doesnt need the paid monitoring service to check his file.
Lastly, I understand that Mr A has been caused unfair stress and upset by the mistaken 
CCJ. We cant undo the stress thats been caused, but we often tell businesses to pay 
compensation  to acknowledge they got something wrong and the impact it had.
In terms of the amount of compensation, I should explain that were not here to fine or 
punish businesses. I also dont think we can hold Experian responsible for any breakdown in 
the relationship between Mr A and the other individual involved  thats broadly between 
them. And Ive kept in mind that Experian apologised and acted promptly in fixing the error.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and we need to be 
consistent. Taking everything into account, I agree with our investigator that the £150 
compensation Experian have already paid is fair to resolve the issue.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Experian Limited have already resolve their error 
fairly, and so I dont uphold Mr As complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman