DRN-3817416
The complaint
Miss M complains that Progressive Money Limited (PML) lent to her irresponsibly in 2018.
What happened
PML has provided records of the loan application including recorded calls. And the brief 
details are that Miss M applied for a loan to consolidate some existing debt. She was 
approved for a £10,000 loan in November 2018, repayable at £368.51 a month for 
60 months (five years) and the total to pay back was £22,110.40. My understanding is that 
Miss M has repaid around £17,000 but this may be out of date. 
After Miss M had complained, PML wrote to say that it did not uphold her complaint. Miss M 
referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in October 2021. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. She issued a view many months ago, PML 
objected to her opinion but then that adjudicator left the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Miss Ms complaint was allocated to another adjudicator who reviewed the whole complaint 
afresh. He thought that the loan ought never to have been approved for Miss M. 
PML disagreed and gave several reasons why, which are summarised here:
It challenged the criticism of the averaged income for Miss M over three payslips
Miss Ms credit file search carried out at the time did not give it any cause for concern
Miss Ms husbands income was almost £2,900 a month and so she had a good level 
of household income as well as her own
It challenged the calculation of 5% minimum repayment required on an overdraft and 
said that debts such as overdrafts are not usually treated as credit card debts
The overdraft was known but it did not exceed that limit and there were no bounced 
payments
The loan was to consolidate other debt and PML paid that debt off directly
It carried out detailed and evidence based creditworthiness assessments. 
And if the complaint is upheld, it questioned the redress approach
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I spent a lot of time on the complaint 
and on 18 January 2023 I decided to issue a provisional decision to explain why I considered  
that PML did enough in 2018. 
That provisional decision is duplicated here for ease of reference and in smaller type to 
differentiate it from this final decision. 
My provisional decision dated 18 January 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry 
practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to consider 
in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are whether PML 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M  would be able to repay in 
a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown that Miss M wouldve been able to do 
so? If I determine that PML did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss M and that she 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required PML to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so PML had to think about whether repaying the loan 
would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss M. In practice this 
meant that PML had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss M undue 
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money 
back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss M. Checks also had to be 
proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon several factors 
including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current 
situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could 
look different for different applications. I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. Im planning not to uphold the complaint. 
PML has pointed out that Miss M wanted to consolidate several other debts to which she was paying 
about £700 a month in total. By taking the PML loan she was repaying to PML  which directly paid 
off the other creditors  around £370 a month and so had released some cash each month for her. 
And PML explained:
Miss Ms credit file did not evidence any defaults, county court judgements or serious
financial problems. Miss M was living with her husband whose net monthly income of
£2897.50 was credited to their joint bank account; therefore, Miss M had a higher
level of household income than that stated within PMLs income and expenditure
assessment.
Miss M says that she could never afford it and the interest rate was too high and she also explained: 
Even though the loan from Progressive Money cleared some of my creditors, it almost 
doubled the amount of debt I was in, as Progressive Money charged me over £12,000 in 
interest and charges alone. The amount that was paid to my creditors wasn't cleared, all that 
changed was who I owed the money to.
PML carried out a detailed credit search and analysed the bank statement in Miss Ms sole name and 
the bank account transactions for 90 days in the joint account she had with her husband.There were seven recorded calls between a PML representative and Miss M before the loan was 
approved and the funds released to her. I have listened to them all including the first which was 
almost an hour in length and very detailed. The last call was one during which Miss M was given all 
the details of the loan again, reminded of the six creditors the PML loan was going to pay off for her to 
consolidate her debts, and Miss M was asked to email to PML all the reference numbers of the loans 
and accounts she had with those six companies, a copy of which I have seen. Miss M was asked to 
read the e-file agreements sent to her as well and sign them and confirm acceptance. 
During that first call, Miss M was asked what was the reason for the loan and why would consolidating 
her debts be a benefit to her? Miss M had explained that she and her husband had several different 
credit accounts and often they were making minimum repayments on each of them and so their plan 
was to pay them all off and have one repayment. Close to the beginning of that first call, and again on 
the very last call, Miss M was informed that the monthly repayments may be lower but as its a higher 
rate she may be repaying more in the longer term. During the first call Miss M asked about early 
repayments and said that was their plan  to pay this loan off early. I also note from the credit file 
details that Miss M had paid off the HP on a car in September/October 2018 which had been costing 
her £332 a month.
During the first call it was made clear to PML that Miss M had a joint account with her husband into 
which both their salaries were paid and from which all the bills came out including the childcare of 
£225 a month and the mortgage of £508 a month even though the mortgage was in her sole name. 
Miss M earned less than her husband. 
The PML representative made a list of all the bills and household outgoings and it was a detailed list 
including whether she gave to charity and whether she had boiler cover. These all came to about 
£517 a month but that did not include the mortgage figure of £508 and so the total would have been 
around £1,025. With the food budget figure of £240 then that made it £1,265 each month before 
paying PML. 
I realise from some of Miss Ms comments to us, part of her complaint is that the PML representative 
suggested that the mortgage cost be halved to assist on the affordability figures. As it came out of a 
joint account into which both her and her husbands salary was paid I dont necessarily consider that 
to have been an outlandish suggestion. And I did hear in the call that Miss M suggested that the 
childcare cost of £225 a month ought to be split as it was a family cost. So, although Miss M is 
concerned about that part of the PML application process relating to the mortgage, I do not consider it 
to have been the wrong thing for PML to have done. I expand on this later in the provisional decision. 
In addition, PML has sent to us the credit search it carried out which listed all of Miss Ms credit 
commitments. One bank account was slightly over its overdraft limit and some of her mail order 
accounts were well below their credit limits. No payments were late and there were few adverse 
records and any that did show were historic and not recent to Miss Ms application date. Overall that 
credit search did not show to PML too much about which to be concerned. And Miss M had 
approached it to consolidate the debts it would have seen on her credit search. 
And the bank statement transactions Miss M provided to PML before the loan was funded showed 
that the current accounts were in a better state than the credit search published figures had shown. 
So that had improved. Both her personal account and the joint account were within their overdraft 
limits. And the reason for that is often credit search information is several weeks behind the actual 
financial position. 
Reviewing the credit search details PML had at the time, the headline figures (excluding mortgage 
debt figure) were that Miss M had outstanding balances of around £2,300 on loans and £5,645 (on a 
credit limit of £5,700) on revolving credit accounts which include credit cards. Miss M had 13 active 
accounts. Five had been opened in the previous 6 months. She had been taking cash advances out 
from credit accounts which, it was explained to her on the first call, was a sign of some financial 
stress. 
By the time the loan came to be funded these figures were updated in an email by Miss M to PML in 
which she listed the balances and the reference numbers so that PML could pay them off directly. By the time the loan was being funded Miss M owed £2,194 on the two loans and £7,462 across the four 
revolving credit accounts. 
I have listed here all the repayments it would have known about and these were on the older Credit 
Search data figures:
An unsecured loan to be consolidated - £96 a month usually
Payday Loan company loan to be consolidated   regularly repaying £98 a month
Credit card 1 to be consolidated  regularly paying around £40 a month
Credit card 2 to be consolidated  regularly paying around £20 a month
Shopping account to be consolidated  regularly paying around £40 a month
Shopping account 2 to be consolidated  regularly paying around £60 to £90 a month 
sometimes around £500  depending on available cash. 
The headline figure of revolving credit was around £5,645 but had increased to £7,462 on the updated 
figures from Miss M. And if I calculate 3% and 5% minimum repayments for these that would have 
been around £223 (3%) and £373 (5%) each month which I have seen was more than she had been 
paying when the credit search figures were with PML. So, her revolving credit minimum monthly 
repayments had increased from the credit search published figures. Before giving Miss M the funds, 
PML knew this. But the £10,000 loan still covered them all.
I accept PMLs submission about not treating the overdraft figures in the way we would calculate a 
minimum monthly repayment for a credit card debt. Usually the bank is satisfied  for a period  if the 
money coming into the bank account regularly looks to be enough to be able to repay that debt within 
a reasonable time. And a minimum repayment is not usually what the bank looks for. Miss Ms credit 
file had no adverse bank account entries and so I am not adding in the overdraft debt in the same way 
I am calculating 3% and 5% minimum repayments for the credit card and shopping account debts. But 
I know that PML was aware of the overdraft situations. They were not excessively large sums. 
Using the credit search results it seems that the six open accounts Miss M had (excluding the 
mortgage) would have been costing her £198 for the two loans and between £223 and £373 for the 
other four accounts. But by repaying the minimum on those four Miss M would not have been 
reducing the capital balances much and at that rate it may have taken a very long time to repay them. 
Miss M had explained that was the reason or the loan from PML in that first telephone call with it in 
November 2018. 
So, it looks to have been a maximum of around £571 each month for her credit commitments but it 
could have been £421 if she was repaying around 3% on the four revolving credit accounts. 
So, her total indebtedness was going to have been around £421 (or £571) plus the regular bills of 
around £517 (assuming unshared) plus the mortgage of £508 which added up come to around £1,446 
or £1,596 depending on the minimum payment figure used.  
I have seen the income and expenditure (I&E) details PML created which seems to have been based 
on what her I&E would look like after the six loan accounts had all been paid off by PML and so her 
liability for credit accounts would have been just the one to it. 
PML had a figure for the total expenditure of £933.14 a month, which seems to have been a figure 
reached after having halved the mortgage cost as PML did split it between Miss M and her husband. 
But it also included a figure of £240 a month for food which, during one of the telephone calls, was 
talked about. And its I&E figures were based on after the loan consolidation had taken place. 
Turning to the point about Miss Ms income. PML asked for three sets of payslips. Miss M says it was 
wrong to average the payslip amounts out. PML disagrees it was the wrong thing to do. And Miss M 
says this because her regular salary was around £1,269 each month whereas the earlier two payslips 
showed a pay arrears credit of around £233 one month plus one payslip with overtime of around £76 
for that month. So, Miss M says it ought to have used the regular salary of £1,269. However, Miss M 
never raised this at the time and she was asked about her pay and the payslip copies during the 
telephone calls. Miss M also says that PML ought not to have included the child benefit of around £89 a month. But I 
consider that to have been part of her income and so I do think its reasonable for PML to have 
included that. And in Miss Ms complaint letter to PML she used an income figure of £1,352 which 
seemed to be a figure she was content with. And as I have said earlier I do think its reasonable to 
include the child benefit figure as its money into the household used for the benefit of the child. So 
that makes her monthly figure around £1,441. PML used £1,431 including the child benefit and so it 
seems that was a broadly accurate figure. 
So, PMLs final I&E calculation (assuming after consolidation of her credit commitments) was 
£1,431.33 income, less £933.14 outgoings and so that left Miss M with £489.19 a month as 
disposable income. PML considered that the £369 each month for the loan  having consolidated her 
other loans - was suitable. 
Having said all that, using the figures I set out earlier in which there was no reduction in Miss Ms 
commitments relating to childcare and mortgage then the PML loan would have appeared 
unaffordable based on Miss Ms income alone. This is her point. And does make the complaint less 
clear cut on affordability grounds. 
So, I have considered this carefully and I have reviewed the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
regulations covering irresponsible lending which altered on 1 November 2018. It was not considered 
unreasonable to factor in a known other income and PML had done that. The childcare costs and the 
mortgage costs did come out of the joint account into which both Miss Ms and her husbands salaries 
were paid. 
To substantiate this Miss Ms agreement was issued 14 November 2018. And the FCA CONC 5.2A.12 
R (2) (effective 1 November 2018) does include that when PML was considering Miss Ms ability to 
make repayments under the agreement, then it was able to consider one or more of the following
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income 
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in 
so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make 
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay 
(wholly or partly) using them;
So, I consider that looking at what her husband earned and recognising that the household bills came 
out of the joint account into which both Miss M and her husband paid a salary was entirely 
reasonable. 
PML had halved the mortgage costs and possibly the childcare costs and added in the food bill. It 
could have gone further in my view as it could have apportioned all the household bills (around £517 
a month) plus the mortgage and the food costs in the same proportion as the individuals earning 
power. This was demonstrated by Miss M earning £1,352 (as Miss M appears to have accepted was a 
correct monthly figure and net of the child benefit) and her husbands which was around £2,890. So, 
Miss M earned around 50% of her husbands. 
So, I consider it reasonable that these reductions made by PML were in line with the FCA regulations 
in November 2018 and Miss M was aware this was being contemplated as it was raised in the 
telephone calls. 
The FCA regulations do go on to say that if that other persons income is included then it ought to be 
aware of that other persons non-discretionary spending as well. Well, PML did know that as it knew 
all the bills, and it could see (from the bank account transactions) the one regular payment to a loan 
account that was not one belonging to Miss M and so must have been her husbands. 
Ive taken time to be very focussed on the figures and by doing that I have demonstrated that the loan 
was likely just affordable to Miss M. But I am satisfied that PML has done nothing wrong by apportioning some of the household costs to her husband. And it is not inconceivable that many of the 
debts Miss M had run up related to purchases and costs for the household. 
Ive also considered the fact that Miss M has complained about the interest levels. I do not accept that 
line of argument. It may have been an expensive loan but that is not a concern for the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Ive enough evidence from the calls and the paperwork provided to Miss M that 
she was very aware of the cost of this loan and by agreeing to an expensive deal that does not make 
it an irresponsible lending decision by PML.
What has concerned me is the fine-line between it being affordable and not affordable at the point of 
application and considering this with the length of term. 
In the end, one element is clear  that Miss M signed up to clear her debts, pay one monthly payment 
of just over £369 a month. And although expensive, it gave her a timeline that in five years shed owe 
nothing. Whereas just paying the minimum repayments on the four revolving credit accounts may 
have taken longer or a similar time. That is almost impossible to know but I mention it as its a point 
that PML has raised and was worth considering.
PML was very detailed in its approach and I have listened to all the recorded calls for this loan 
application. I have reviewed the FCA regulations which applied at the time the loan agreement was 
approved. And I am satisfied PML approached the affordability assessment in the correct way.
I realise Miss M thinks differently but my resolution is that I am planning not to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties were sent the provisional decision on 18 January 2023. 
Both have been reminded of the reply date which was 1 February 2023. Neither has 
responded. 
I have checked that we have sent the provisional decision  twice  to the correct email 
address we have for Miss M. As recently as 16 December 2022 we had received an 
acknowledgement from her after an earlier email. So, I am satisfied it has been sent to the 
correct contact address we have for her. And we have tried to contact Miss M twice by 
telephone. 
So, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made and conclusion I came to in that 
provisional decision. 
Those findings and reasons are repeated here and form part of the final decision which is 
that I do not uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman