DRN-1883169
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs W complain about the settlement Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional 
De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. has paid them for a cancellation claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs W were due to travel to the Caribbean in January 2020. A short while before, 
Mrs W learned she was pregnant. As the Zika virus was present in the country they were 
travelling to, Mrs W was advised not to travel to it.
So Mr D called Mapfre to look into potentially making a cancellation claim and checking 
whether or not itd be covered. About a week later, Mr D went ahead and cancelled the trip 
and made a claim on the policy.
Mapfre accepted the claim. But it explained that Mr D and Mrs Ws policy only covered 
Europe  it didnt cover the Caribbean. If theyd taken out a policy that did cover the 
Caribbean, theyd have paid an extra £78.34 on top of the actual premium theyd paid of 
£47.44. So theyd paid 37.72% of the premium they ought to have done. Mapfre offered 
them a proportionate settlement based on 37.72% of their total claim amount. 
Mr D and Mrs W werent happy with Mapfres offer. They said if Mapfres call handler had 
told them the policy didnt cover the Caribbean, theyd have either moved their trip dates or 
paid a small fee to rearrange their holiday for somewhere unaffected by the Zika virus. They 
asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr D and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He noted that 
Mapfre had reviewed Mr Ds call with Mapfre and had found that the call handler hadnt 
followed the correct procedures. The reviewer had also found that the call handler shouldve 
noticed Mr Ds policy didnt cover his trip and said they wouldve expected the call handler to 
point this out.  So he thought it was clear Mapfre had made an error and that Mr D shouldve 
been told upfront that any claim wouldnt be covered. The investigator was persuaded that if 
Mr D had been given the right information, he wouldnt have cancelled his holiday and 
wouldnt have lost out. He recommended that Mapfre should pay the full claim.
Mapfre disagreed. It acknowledged the call handler had made a mistake. But it said it didnt 
offer advice and it was up to Mr D and Mrs W to decide whether to cancel their trip or not. It 
said the policy simply didnt cover the Caribbean and that it couldve turned down the claim 
in full. But instead, itd fairly offered a proportionate settlement.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mapfres offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill explain 
why.
Theres no dispute that Mr D and Mrs Ws policy only covered Europe. Ive seen the policy 
schedule and I also accept the policy defines what it means by Europe  which doesnt 
include the Caribbean. Mr D and Mrs W paid their policy premium on this basis. So in some 
cases, I mightve thought Mapfres offer was reasonable.
But in this case, its common ground that Mr D called Mapfre about a week before he went 
ahead and cancelled the holiday, to discuss potentially cancelling and making a claim. It 
seems Mr D explained where he was planning to go and the reasons why the trip might need 
to be cancelled.
Mapfre reviewed this call when looking into Mr D and Mrs Ws complaint and Ive seen a 
detailed note of the reviewers findings. The reviewer noted that the call handler had carried 
out ID checks using Mr Ds policy schedule  which clearly stated that the territorial limit was 
Europe. The call handler also checked the level of cover Mr D had, which is immediately 
above the territorial limit on the schedule. So the reviewer felt that at this point, the call 
handler had the opportunity to notice and explain that Mr Ds trip wasnt actually covered and 
said: I would expect this to have been done. And the reviewer also felt the call handler 
hadnt followed the proper procedures for checking cover.
So its clear that Mapfre accepts the call handler did make mistakes during the call. Given it 
appears Mr D discussed the situation with the call handler, Id have reasonably expected the 
call handler to point out that Mr Ds type of policy simply didnt cover his trip. And given the 
call handler worked for Mapfre and it seems they worked on a line which dealt with claims 
enquiries, Id have expected them to have more detailed knowledge about Mapfres policies 
and cover levels than Mr D. I dont think this could be construed as giving advice  it would 
simply be giving Mr D the information he needed when deciding what actions to take next. 
I do accept that the call handler made a mistake. But I have to consider what impact I think 
this had on Mr D and Mrs W and whether or not its caused them to lose out. And I think it 
has. Thats because when Mr D called, it seems he was exploring his options. I think if hed 
been told his trip wasnt covered, he wouldnt have chosen to go ahead and cancel it. 
Instead he says hed have either changed his holiday dates until the following year, or hed 
have paid a small fee to the tour operator to change the destination. Given the alternative 
was losing everything hed paid for his flights, I find Mr D and Mrs Ws testimony plausible 
and persuasive. So I think theyd likely have made alternative holiday plans and wouldnt 
have gone ahead with cancelling their trip.
Overall, this means I think Mapfres error has caused Mr D and Mrs W to lose out. I think the 
fair and reasonable outcome here is for Mapfre to pay the full balance of their claim, together 
with interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the settlement, from the date of claim until the 
date the claims settled. Its possible Mr D and Mrs W wouldve had to pay a fee to change 
their bookings  Mr D believes this wouldve been around £50 per person. In this case 
though, I dont think it would be fair for Mapfre to deduct this from the settlement. Thats 
because I think Mr D and Mrs W have been put to some trouble and inconvenience by 
Mapfres handling of their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr D and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.to now 
settle Mr D and Mrs Ws claim in full. It may deduct any amount its already paid from the total settlement. It must also add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr D and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D 
and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman