DRN-2904246
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSI):
overcharged him for several years for the premiums he paid on his home emergency 
insurance policy; and
took a policy premium by direct debit out of his bank account after he told it he wasnt 
renewing the policy and so shouldnt take the premium.
What happened
It seems Mr C originally arranged homecare protection through a company Ill call the 
provider in 2012. In June 2017 this became an insurance policy underwritten by RSI, but 
still operated on its behalf by the provider. Under this policy Mr C insured his boiler, central 
heating, plumbing and electrics.
Mr C was charged the following monthly premiums:
2012 to 2015 - £16.99
2016 - £17.99
2017 - £19.98
2018 - £29.97
2019 - £31.22
2020 - £32.53
2021 - £33.91
Mr C says he made claims on the policy in November/December 2017 and March 2018. 
However, he was entitled to unlimited calls under the policy, so didnt think this should have 
affected the premium. And if it did, he thought the premiums should have reduced again in 
later years because of few claims.
Because of personal circumstances he didnt question the amount of the premiums with RSI 
or the provider until renewal in January 2021. He then complained about the amounts he 
had been charged, and said better deals were being offered online for the same package. 
The provider said he had been charged the correct premium by RSI.
On 6 January 2021, he told the provider he wouldnt renew the policy on 10 January 2021, 
and RSI shouldnt take any monthly premiums for it by direct debit from his bank account.  
Mr C then found RSI had taken the first monthly payment of £33.91 from his account on        
8 January 2021.
Mr C spoke to the provider on 12 January 2021. It said was normal for a direct debit 
payment to be taken up to 5 days before the due date. It said that when Mr C asked for the 
payment to be stopped on 6 January 2021, there wasnt enough time for this to happen 
under the system. The provider had arranged for the payment to be returned to Mr Cs bank 
which would happen on 22 January 2021. Having checked, it wasnt possible for this to 
happen sooner.
Mr C was unhappy both about the amount he had been charged, and that the direct debit 
payment had been taken against his instructions, and not returned immediately, and 
complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She explained we 
could only consider this complaint against RSI from the time it became insurer of Mr Cs 
policy in 2017.
She said we wouldnt tell an insurer what it should charge for a policy  that was a 
commercial matter for it to decide. But we would look to see that within its pricing structure it 
had charged a customer fairly in line with what it would have charged other customers.
She said that when pricing what it would charge for a policy it was customary for an insurer 
to take into account factors such as the type and age of a boiler and the claims that had 
been made previously under the policy. RSIs charging structure was commercially 
confidential. But the investigator was satisfied that it had been applied fairly in Mr Cs case, 
and consistently with how it was applied to other customers.
Although Mr C said he had been able to find the policy much cheaper online, it was common 
for insurers to offer initial discounts when a policy was taken out. And the price quoted online 
might not take into account the particular risk factors that applied to Mr Cs boiler. She said it 
had been open to Mr C to shop elsewhere at renewal if he had wanted to.
The investigator said that although Mr C was entitled to unlimited calls during a policy year, 
this didnt prevent an insurer taking his claims history into account in assessing the premium 
for later years.
 
RSI had explained why the premium initially came to be taken after Mr C had said he wasnt 
renewing, and not to take the premium. Initially RSI had hoped the premium would be 
returned in a payment run on 15 January 2021, and had told Mr C this would happen. 
Unfortunately, it didnt get included in this payment run, so RSI told Mr C on 12 January 
2021 it would be returned in the payment run of 22 January 2021, which it was.
 
All in all, the investigator didnt think RSI had overcharged Mr C, and didnt suggest it should 
do anything more in respect of the direct debit issue.
Mr C responded to say, in summary, that:
at the time the direct debit was taken he was changing his bank account, and so after 
RSI initially said the payment wouldnt be taken, the unplanned withdrawal of money 
from his old account was unhelpful; and
he didnt think we had considered properly his complaints about the way his 
premiums were increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we wont normally tell an insurer what it should charge a 
customer for a policy, However we will look to see that in setting premiums, it treats a 
customer fairly in line with other similar customers, that it sets out clearly the amount to be 
charged, and that the customer can move elsewhere if they arent happy with the proposed 
premium.
It seems that January 2018 was the first renewal of the policy after RSI became the 
underwriter of the policy. There was a significant increase in the premium on that renewal, 
but Im satisfied that this was in accordance with RSIs general underwriting policies for that 
and later years, and Mr C wasnt treated unfairly in comparison with other customers.
Each year, the new premiums were made clear to Mr C, and he had the opportunity of 
moving elsewhere if he wished. I understand that because of his personal circumstances he 
didnt take the increased premiums up with RSI at the time, but I cant hold RSI responsible 
for this. So I cant say RSI overcharged Mr C in respect of his policy.
When direct debit arrangements are set up, they can take some time to unravel involving as 
they do the payee, the payees bank, the payers bank, and their respective systems. It 
seems that the way it was set up, the direct debit due on 10 January would normally be 
taken form Mr Cs bank account on 8 January, and there wasnt time to stop this after he 
gave notice on 6 January.
This meant the payment of £33.91 had to be recovered after it had gone. RSI thought this 
would happen in a payment run on 15 January, and told Mr C this. This turned out not to be 
possible until the payment run on 22 January.
I understand Mr Cs frustration at the fact the payment went out when he wasnt proceeding, 
and then at the slowness in the payment being returned, and that this wasnt what he was 
initially told would happen. It was particularly unhelpful as he was changing his bank account 
at the time. However, I understand the payment was returned on 22 January 2021, and in 
the circumstances I dont require RSI to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman