DRN-3721711
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans, did not carry out 
sufficient checks before lending and so his financial position was in such a poor state that he 
could not afford the loans. Mr H says that this was irresponsible as Shelby Finance ought to 
have known.
What happened
Using information given to us by Shelby Finance here is a brief loan table.
Loans Date Taken Instalments Amount Date repaid
1 23 September 2020 6 £500.00 25 September 2020
2 25 October 2020 6 £500.00 17 December 2020
gap
3 27 October 2021 3 £500.00 15 November 2021
All the loans were repaid early. There was a significant gap in the lending between Loans 2
and 3 which Shelby Finance pointed out to our adjudicator.
After Mr H had referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our adjudicator 
did two views. In the first view she felt that loan 3 ought not to have been approved for Mr H.
Mr H agreed. Shelby Finance disagreed and gave reasons why, all of which I have reviewed. 
That precipitated a second view and our adjudicator felt the same.
The complaint was passed to me to decide and I issued a provisional decision giving 
reasons why I did not think that the complaint should be upheld. I gave time to both parties 
to respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
I think the questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
did Shelby Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr H would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
if not, would those checks have shown that Mr H would have been able to do so?
did Shelby Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Shelby Finance to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr H ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Shelby Finance had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Shelby Finance to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
all means for Mr Hs complaint.
My provisional decision dated 23 September 2022
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
After our adjudicators first letter of opinion sent to him, Mr H agreed with it. And from this
I gather that Mr H has no issue with the outcome for loans 1 and 2. So I have not reviewed
them.
But for the avoidance of doubt and having looked at the loan information I can see from some of 
Shelby Finances records which have been sent to us, he repaid them both early and so he incurred 
relatively little interest. And the information Shelby Finance had for loans 1 and 2, from its own research and from Mr H, means that I agree with that outcome  Mr H was able to afford those loans. 
Shelby Finance carried out proportionate checks and Id not uphold loans 1 and 2.
Loan 3 is the contentious part of this complaint and so I have reviewed the information carefully.
Loan 3 was taken ten months after Mr H had repaid loan 2. That was a significant enough gap for me 
to consider it reasonable for Shelby Finance to have approached Mr Hs application for loan 3 as if he 
was a new customer.
And having reviewed it all I consider that Shelby Finance carried out proportionate checks and did not 
do wrong issuing a £500 loan to Mr H in October 2021. It was for a relatively modest sum and was to 
be for three months only. So, gathering information from Mr H on his income  which it then verified  
and was £2,436 a month. And gathering information about Mr Hs expenditure, which it then 
increased to £1,121 having compared it to statistical data, means that I consider Shelby Finance had 
done the right things.
In addition, Shelby Finance carried out a credit search. Our adjudicator thought that as the increase in 
Mr Hs overall indebtedness had risen from the information Shelby Finance had obtained for loan 2, to 
what it could see in its credit search for loan 3, then it ought not to have lent loan 3.
I do not consider that to be the right approach for what is, effectively, Mr Hs first loan in this lending 
chain. And even if it had been treated as Mr Hs third loan in one continuous lending chain, still I do 
not consider that Mr Hs credit history at loan 3 was such that Shelby Finance would have been 
alerted to any significant problems. And I say this for several reasons:
even if it had looked at its records for loans 1 and 2 and not treated loan 3 as if he were a new 
customer, Shelby Finance knew that Mr H repaid his loans early and so his repayment 
record was good. This is a factor in carrying out a creditworthiness assessment before 
lending. 
his credit search results showed more debt for loan 3 but nothing adverse on that set of 
results. There was an indication he had one repayment plan. But nothing further.
The credit results summary part which were obtained before loan 3 showed as follows: 
Active accounts
Total value of active accounts £7,870.00
Total value of loan and instalment credit accounts £2,567.00 
Total value of mortgage accounts £0.00
Total value of revolving credit and budget accounts £757.00 
Total value of home credit accounts £0.00
Mr H expected Shelby Finance to have reviewed his bank account statements but I would not have 
expected Shelby to do that for a first loan, or even if it was treated as a third loan in the same lending 
chain. That would have been disproportionate.
Overall, Shelby Finance carried out proportionate checks, had no reason to be alerted to Mr H having 
any financial problems and his credit overall at £7, significant for a £500 loan that Id expect Shelby 
Finance to have done more.
I plan not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Response of the parties to the provisional decision
Shelby Finance replied to say that it agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr H responded and gave reasons why he disagreed. He said nothing about loans 1 and 2 specifically, and as he had agreed with the outcome for loans 1 and 2 before I had issued 
my provisional decision, then I have taken Mr Hs recent response to relate to loan 3. 
For loan 3, Mr H has said that he had over £4,000 as an overdraft debt on which he was 
paying fees. He also said he had other payday lenders he had to pay as well. 
As my provisional decision explained, and as this final decision has also set out, the 
regulations lenders need to comply with expect proportionate checks to have been done 
before any decision to lend is made. As I have noted, Shelby Finance had carried out 
proportionate checks and likely had recognised the other debt that Mr H had from its own 
credit search. 
But for a customer to already have debt is not a bar to a professional lender lending again 
especially where the loan being applied for was a modest one of £500 as loan 3 was. And 
Mr H was applying for that £500 loan ten months after the previous lending Mr H had taken 
with Shelby Finance. So  I do not consider that Shelby Finance had done anything other 
than what was expected of it. 
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman