DRN-3038772
The complaint
Mr H has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) 
to transfer a defined-benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with his former 
employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr H is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by Mr H.
What happened
Mr H was introduced to Portal in 2014 after hed been in contact with another business, 
which Ill refer to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative (AR) of a 
regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide 
pension transfer advice. Portal had an established business arrangement with Firm C, 
whereby Portal would provide the pension transfer advice before referring the client back to 
Firm C for investment advice on the transferred funds, and this arrangement was followed 
for Mr H.
At the time of the transfer Mr H was aged 54, although the fact find noted he was 56, 
working full time and living in rented accommodation. It was also noted that he had a loan 
and credit card with outstanding balances totalling £700. Mr H had a preserved final salary 
pension that was projected to pay a pension of £4,665 from age 65. Prior to the transfer it 
had a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of £66,705. And his desired retirement age 
was noted as 65. 
In July 2014 Portal recommended that Mr H transfer his OPS into a new SIPP. Portal carried 
out a risk-profiling exercise and determined Mr H had a balanced attitude to risk and that 
transferring would meet his objectives. The fact find and suitability report said he wanted 
investment flexibility, noting he wanted tax free cash (TFC) to clear outstanding debt and 
make home improvements. He said he wanted to leave his pension to his sister and her 
children upon his death. He said the pension plan under review was very important to his 
retirement. He didnt want to suffer a significant loss in pension benefits to achieve flexibility 
and hed be prepared to risk a 10% reduced pension to gain more control of his fund.
Portal noted a general asset allocation that it believed was suitable for Mr H and that it 
believed this would be invested in, but said the investment advice would be provided to him 
by Firm C.
In November 2014, Mr Hs pension benefits with an updated CETV of £75,423 were 
transferred to the SIPP and this was invested in the following:
Brisa Investments 
Ishares MSCI UK small cap 
Lakeview UK Invest 
Newscape 5alpha Advntrs 
Real Estate Invest USA 
Strategic Residential Developments 
Tambaba Investments 
In 2020, with the assistance of a representative, Mr H complained to Portal that the advice 
he received to transfer his OPS benefits was unsuitable, saying it caused him significant 
financial loss. Portal didnt agree. In summary, it said it provided suitable transfer advice that 
met Mr Hs stated objectives. It said he told it during a phone call that his attitude to risk was 
pretty much down the middle and that he needed all the TFC he was entitled to. It also said 
Firm C was responsible for any investment advice and it didnt know what the current 
situation was with his investments.
Mr H referred his complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators looked into it and said it 
should be upheld. She didnt think Portal had demonstrated that transferring Mr Hs OPS into 
a SIPP was in his best interests. She thought Mr H was likely to be worse off in retirement. 
The Investigator also said she didnt believe it was possible for Portal to provide suitable 
advice without knowing where the funds were going to be invested. She said Mr H should be 
put back into the position he wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice and that Portal 
should pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Portal didnt agree. It said, in summary, that it discussed the guarantees attached to Mr Hs 
OPS with him in detail by phone and that he wanted to transfer to access TFC to pay off his 
debts. It said that while other options were discussed, Mr H had no other assets and didnt 
want to add to his debt or continue paying interest on it. Portal also said that as Mr H was 
looking to make income withdrawals throughout his life, it relied on the hurdle rate as a more 
accurate means of measuring the scheme benefits. It said Mr H preferred the flexibility of 
income and being able to nominate his death beneficiary. Portal said Mr Hs investments 
were recommended by Firm C and so it wasnt responsible. It said it gave its advice in 
knowledge of the likely investment strategy Firm C would employ for Mr H. It added that it 
had undertaken due diligence on Firm C and provided a copy of the Compliance Health 
Check completed in 2012. Firm C said it didnt invest client funds in UCIS so Portal said it 
shouldnt be held responsible given Firm C had deviated from this.
Portal added that the regulators alert of 2013 did not apply to Mr Hs case, as it only covered 
instances where the other firm was unregulated. As Firm C was regulated, it said Mr H has 
recourse to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and our service. It also 
believed that the redress methodology was unfair, as it didnt take into account that Mr H 
could claim compensation from the FSCS.
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. I let Portal know Mr H has confirmed 
he made a successful claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in 
respect of the UCIS investments made by Firm C, and he received an award of £2,992.18.    
Despite having received this, I explained to Portal that I think it should compensate Mr H for 
the entirety of his loss. This was because Mr H had agreed to repay the award he received 
from the FSCS if he received compensation from a third party relating to the same claim. So, 
I told Portal I was satisfied Mr H wouldnt be compensated twice for the same loss.
Portal didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portal advised Mr H to transfer his OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation about the investments held within the SIPP, as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange Mr Hs underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portals responsibilities ended 
once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then made available for 
investment. I believe that as Mr Hs financial adviser, Portal still had a duty to ensure the 
overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to be 
involved.
Suitable advice couldnt, in my view, be given without thinking about the intended 
investment. Portal appeared to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund 
asset classes Mr H should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made up a 
model portfolio for a balanced investor, which Portal satisfied itself Mr H was. And its partly 
on the basis that Mr H invested in line with a suitable model portfolio and achieved the 
relevant targeted returns that Portal concluded transferring could increase his overall 
pension benefits and could therefore be worthwhile.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portals advice to transfer 
was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought to. At 
the time, the regulator had made clear that it considered in order to suitably advise on 
pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investments to 
be held in it.
The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
A further alert from the regulator in April 2014 said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable and amount to conduct that falls well short 
of firms obligations under our Principles for Businesses and Conduct of Business rules. In 
particular, we are reminding firms that they must conduct their business with integrity (Principle 1), due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2) and must pay due regard to the 
interests of their customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
Portal says that the 2013 alert was specific to situations where the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. It believes this distinguishes the circumstances of Mr Hs transaction from the 
scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to assess the 
overall suitability of the proposed investments. While Ive given that possibility careful 
thought, I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
I can see the alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other 
products (such as the SIPP in Mr Hs case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases, regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these standards have broad application to 
pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. And 
I think the 2014 alert makes it clear that this applies to all firms when providing pension 
switch or transfer advice. So, I think these alerts are relevant to firms in the position of Portal 
in this case.
Portal appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr H it wasnt providing 
advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted basis. 
But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the suitability of 
the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. I dont think there 
was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portal was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt be 
able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portal also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to Mr H 
under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration of how Mr Hs funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required Portal to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr H. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough 
information from Mr H to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.So as part of the fact-finding process Portal had to understand Mr Hs objectives and the 
related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Hs funds were going to be invested irrespective 
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably 
linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer 
without knowing what Mr H would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem 
reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of Portals 
advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with integrity); 2 
(exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers interests and 
treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not misleading way) 
and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on the firms 
judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive outlined above, 
Ive considered Portals advice with these in mind.
As Portal didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets of 
the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs involvement, 
Mr Hs transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated and able to 
provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw no issue with 
this.
I accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portals duty to do the same. As   
Mr Hs appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in her best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Hs funds would be invested.
Portal has stated that they undertook due diligence on Firm S and provided a copy of the 
Compliance Health Check for Firm S completed by a third party on 12 May 2012. 
Notwithstanding the statement on page 19 that Firm S did not intend to promote UCIS funds 
in the future, this document was over two years old by the time the transfer actually took 
place. So, I dont think it should have been relied on in perpetuity.
Furthermore, Portal chose to rely on a general statement, given over two years previously, 
that said recommendations of broad categories of investments, with potentially broad 
gradings of risk, might or might not be made in any given case and that UCIS would not be 
recommended. I dont think that was a reasonable basis on which Portal should have 
assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mr H. In my opinion, Portal needed to 
understand the nature of the investments envisaged for Mr H specifically, rather than rely on 
a general statement about Firm Cs investment philosophy.
It is worth noting that Portals own model portfolio included an allocation of 18% of Mr Hs 
assets into Secured Structured Bonds. Im aware these were asset backed debt securities, 
issued for a fixed term with a fixed interest rate. They were not regulated collective 
investments and could only be recommended by authorised and regulated IFAs. So, I think 
Portal was effectively recommending UCIS-like funds as part of its own portfolio and it is 
unclear why it would do so if it did not expect Firm C to make a similar recommendation.
Mr H was one of many clients that Firm C referred to Portal for pension transfer advice. 
Portal has indicated that roughly two to three cases a month were intended to be referred to 
it by Firm C over a year. There were multiple dealings with Firm C throughout 2014 and 
2015, during which time Firm C repeatedly invested consumers pensions in UCIS and Portal 
continued to recommend pension transfers where the funds would be invested at Firm Cs 
discretion. Ive not been provided with any information to demonstrate that Portal checked it 
was still Firm Cs position not to recommend UCIS when it was making other enquiries with Firm C. I think it was important that this was confirmed. But in any event, as Ive explained 
above, because Portal needed to consider the proposed investment for Mr H  and it didnt 
do this  I dont think it did enough to assess the overall suitability of the advice given to 
Mr H.
This doesnt mean that Im holding Portal responsible for the failings of another regulated 
firm. Ive focused on Portals own responsibilities as the business involved with the capacity 
to unlock the funds held in Mr Hs OPS. Theres no dispute that Portal gave that advice and 
in my view it incorrectly thought it could limit its advice to the transfer without seeking 
information about the investments Firm C intended and eventually arranged for Mr H.
It is clear to me that Firm C and Portal had come to an agreement about their working 
relationship. Firm C did not have the required regulatory authorisations to give pension 
transfer advice whereas Portal did, and an agreement to work together for pension release 
clients came about. Portal has stressed it had never before agreed to work with another 
authorised firm, as the processes and controls required to set up the relationship would be 
disproportionate to the level of business it might bring about. However, an exception was 
made for Firm C, as it had proposed to send significant levels of business to Portal.
In those circumstances it seems to me that Portal needed to do more to ensure that the two 
firms worked together to give suitable pension transfer advice to clients. Aside from the initial 
due diligence checks carried out at the outset of the relationship, I have not seen any 
evidence that further checks were made by Portal to satisfy itself that the pension transfer 
advice it was giving to clients was aligned with the investment advice they were receiving 
from Firm C. The need to do so was, as I say, a necessary part of the suitability assessment 
carried out by Portal on a case by case basis for individual clients. But it was also, in my 
view, a reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship 
itself, so that any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned advice could be identified and 
addressed.
I dont think this required Portal to police the activities of Firm C, but it did require Portal to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that both firms were acting, together, in their clients best 
interests. For Mr H Portal set out in the suitability report what spread of investments it 
thought would be suitable for him, as follows:
Cash 10%
Equities 60%
Other Fixed Interest 12%
Secured Structured Bonds 18%
But with what Ive said above in mind, I dont agree that it was sufficient for Portal simply to 
recommend a broad spread of investments in the expectation that that would bring about the 
necessary alignment with Firm Cs investment recommendations. As things transpired for 
Mr H, and in the absence of any further checks by Portal, the investments he was eventually 
advised to purchase were significantly removed from the investments Portal contemplated 
when it advised him to transfer away from his OPS in the first place.
It isnt in dispute that in reality, having followed Portals transfer advice, a significant 
proportion of the funds remaining in Mr Hs SIPP (after hed taken tax-free cash and fees 
were deducted) were invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are 
relevant here. It said that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain 
customers (generally sophisticated, high net worth investors), as an example, even when a 
customer was deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a 
client's exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In any case, I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr H at all. Theres nothing to indicate Mr H had the 
requisite knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these 
types of investments.
In my view, had Portal requested information about the proposed investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest this amount of Mr Hs funds in UCIS, it couldve 
queried this, given how at odds it was with what it determined an appropriate asset allocation 
for Mr H was. For the avoidance of any doubt, had Firm Cs recommendation mirrored 
Portals own model portfolios allocation of 18% of assets into UCIS-like funds, I still think the 
portfolio wouldve been unsuitable for the reasons noted above. I think that had appropriate 
enquiries been made, it wouldve become apparent something was amiss with Firms Cs 
proposal and that the switch was therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mr H being 
exposed to more risk than Portal considered appropriate.
Overall, I think Portal needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr H. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portal to have 
advised Mr H that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from his OPS in those 
circumstances. If Portal had warned Mr H against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr H wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with the 
transfer.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portals advice turns 
solely on where Mr Hs funds were ultimately invested. Portals recommendation that he 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portals incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not 
persuaded Mr H wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
The advice to transfer
OPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance 
(COBS19.1.6) at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests. And 
generally, a transfer will only likely be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portals advice, Mr H was 54 years old and employed. He was a standard 
retail investor with under 11 years until he expected to retire and his OPS benefits became 
payable. Based on a risk profile Mr H completed, Portal said it believed he had a balanced 
ATR. But Mr H says he was a low risk investor with no capacity for loss. Aside from his state 
pension entitlement this was his only retirement provision. And he had no assets or savings. 
So it seems to me Mr Hs OPS was his most valuable asset. It provided a guaranteed income at retirement. And, based on this, I think Portal should have recognised the 
significance of Mr Hs OPS and proceeded with caution.
Portals advice was given at a time when the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 
'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past 
pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates 
when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given 
in this case. The discount rate was 4.6% per year for ten years to retirement. For 
comparison, the regulators assumed future growth rates for personal pension illustrations 
were 2% (low); 5% (intermediate); and 8% (high).
In terms of the investment risk Mr H would be taking on by transferring, Portal produced a 
Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report which showed the critical yield required to match 
benefits from the OPS at age 65 was 9.3%. And that if he were eligible to retire early and 
take TFC from this the critical yield would be 7.7%. So, the funds transferred needed to 
consistently grow at this rate for Mr H not to be financially worse off by transferring. This was 
much higher than the discount rate of 4.6% and the regulators middle projection rate. So 
I think Mr H was likely to receive benefits of a lower value at retirement if investing in line 
with his attitude to risk.
I am aware that the TVAS was based on a CETV of £66,705, whereas the final transfer 
value had increased to £75,423 in November 2014. This would likely have the effect of the 
reducing the level of the critical yield needed to match the same benefits, but the 
recommendation was based on the figures at the time and it wasnt known that the value 
would increase. Even with the higher CETV, a critical yield which took account of all charges 
and Mr Hs intended retirement age of 65 would still likely be above the mid-range projection 
of 5%. So, Im not persuaded that there was any realistic chance of Mr H improving on the 
benefits being given up.
The guidance under COBS 19.1.3 states that the comparison undertaken by Portal should:
1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested.
Portal says the hurdle rate of 5.19% demonstrates that the transfer was financially viable, 
given it projected returns of 6.13%. I recognise Portals model projected returns of 6.13% a 
year before charges, which was closer to the critical yield. But Portal didnt know how Firm C 
was going to be investing Mr Hs funds so I dont think this figure could reasonably be relied 
upon. And, while this figure was higher than the hurdle rate of 5.19%, I dont think it was 
reasonable to base the advice to transfer on the hurdle rate in any event.
COBS 19.1.7 says:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the clients attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up.
Portals argument for its reliance on the hurdle rate in Mr Hs case ignores the importance of 
the critical yield in demonstrating the value of the benefits being given up and is essentially saying that it was suitable to give up a guaranteed income without gaining anything, because 
he could get by without it.
But using the hurdle rate is not supported by the customers own responses to the risk 
questions, as he stated he would only be prepared to suffer a 10% reduction in pension to 
gain control of his fund and that he could only afford to lose 10% of his fund before it 
affected his standard of living significantly. Neither of these indicate that the consumer was 
happy to give up a secure income in retirement. I am therefore satisfied that it is appropriate 
to use the critical yield to measure the value of the benefits being given up and not the 
hurdle rate.
A consumer may still have wanted to transfer from an OPS to a personal pension if doing so 
offered opportunities or alternatives which were not available within the ceding scheme and 
fulfilled a genuine need. The Key Financial Objectives on page six of the suitability report 
listed several objectives which would be met by transferring his pension plans to the SIPP. 
But having considered these carefully, I dont believe any of these objectives justified 
Portals recommendation to transfer.
The suitability report states that Mr H wanted to take TFC to repay debt and make home 
improvements. And that he would be prepared to suffer a reduced pension to maximise TFC, 
provided the reduction was reasonable. Under Ways to generate cash it said Mr H didnt 
wanted to take further lending or keep paying interest. It says he doesnt have enough 
disposable income to service his needs. And that if he paid off his debt with TFC he could 
refocus his debt payments into his pension. It also explained that Mr H would end up with 
total debt repayments totalling just over £25,000 based on the interest rate he could be 
repaying on it. 
Yet I note from the fact find that Mr Hs total outstanding debt was only £700 that he repaid 
at £108 per month. And that after all outgoings he still had a net disposable income of £107 
per month leftover. But Portal doesnt seem to have explored that Mr H could have used this 
to repay his debt sooner, without transferring his OPS to access TFC early. 
I recognise Mr Hs told us he used the TFC to pay for his daughters wedding and home 
improvements. But, while it may have been considered useful to be able to take TFC earlier 
for these reasons, theres nothing to suggest the home improvements in particular were 
pressing or couldnt have waited until his intended retirement age.
I appreciate the suitability report says being able to draw flexibly would be a useful benefit to 
Mr H and that flexibility to do so was important, but I note he considered it useful, rather than 
a significant objective. And, as explained above, his answers to the risk questions dont 
support that he was happy to give up a secure income in retirement. 
The suitability report also said enhanced death benefits was important to Mr H, as he wanted 
to provide for his sister and her children should he predecease them in retirement. I agree 
that transferring did provide a higher lump sum death benefit for Mr Hs beneficiaries at the 
outset, but in my view, this didnt outweigh the loss of guaranteed income in retirement while 
he was living. While I can appreciate Mr H may have wanted to pass on as much money as 
possible to his beneficiaries in the event of his death, Im conscious that the main purpose of 
a pension is to provide an income in retirement. Other considerations, like death benefits, 
are secondary, particularly where there was nothing to suggest Mr H was in ill health, such 
that it wasnt expected that his pension fund would need to support him for a long time. 
Furthermore, I wouldve expected the adviser to explore the possibility of taking out life 
assurance if providing a legacy for his family was genuinely important to him.It was noted in the suitability report that Mr H wanted ownership and personal control of his 
pension benefits, but this reason by itself isnt sufficient justification to recommend the 
transfer. Mr H had no recorded investment experience and its unclear why he wanted 
control over his funds, when he would be relying on a third party, Firm C, for investment 
advice.
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portal covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portal 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer at all.
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portal not to transfer, Mr H 
would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe he would have. Theres nothing to suggest that he 
was seriously considering transferring out of his OPS prior to speaking with Portal or 
proactively seeking transfer advice.
Had he been appropriately advised, I think its more likely Mr H would have chosen to stay 
with his OPS. As a professional adviser which, unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide 
transfer advice, Portals recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and could, 
I believe, have dissuaded Mr H from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent 
investments. I accept its possible Mr H may still have wanted to go ahead anyway to access 
TFC but, for the reasons Ive given above, I think thats very unlikely.
Is Portal wholly responsible for Mr Hs loss?
I recognise it can be argued Firm C is also liable to Mr H and that in turn I should apportion 
only part of the responsibility to Portal. Having given this careful thought though, in the 
circumstances, I think it is fair to find Portal wholly responsible and, in turn, to direct it to 
compensate Mr H for the whole of his loss.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portal were in a business relationship in 
which each agreed to provide services designed to bring about a single outcome for clients  
pension transfer advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt authorised to provide 
pension transfer advice, it referred Mr H to Portal. Portal advised Mr H to transfer his 
benefits to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his OPS benefits to be transferred to 
this. I acknowledge Firm C advised Mr H to invest a significant share of his SIPP funds in 
UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portals understanding that it could reasonably limit its advice 
to just the transfer and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the proposed investments 
too, even if Firm C was advising Mr H on them. It was only as a result of Portals involvement 
that Mr H transferred the funds held in his OPS to the SIPP. Portals role was pivotal, since 
the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being transferred over first; if that 
hadnt happened, he couldnt have invested as he did. In any event, and as I say, it is clear 
that Firm C and Portal had agreed to enter a business relationship together which was 
designed to bring about the very outcome thats caused Mr Hs loss.
Portal argues that Firm C is responsible for the investment advice and so Mr H should avail 
himself of any compensation he may be entitled to by making a claim to the FSCS. It also 
says that the amount of any award made against Portal should be limited by taking that 
payment into account. In ordinary circumstances, as the FSCS describes itself as a fund of 
last resort, it is my understanding that it is unlikely it will pay out on claims where it is aware 
that another firm was involved in the transaction, and where it considers there is a 
reasonable prospect of the consumer making a recovery against that firm for the loss 
suffered.Nonetheless, whether to postpone payment of compensation (to enable the consumer to 
recover compensation from a third party) is a matter entirely for the FSCS.
In this case, it seems the FSCS decided to award Mr H £2,992.18 before the determination 
of Mr Hs complaint with this service. In those circumstances, Im aware that as a condition 
of accepting compensation from the FSCS, Mr H was asked to give to the FSCS an 
assignment of his rights to make a claim against third parties. This would have enabled the 
FSCS to make a claim in recovery of that compensation against those third parties and the 
PI insurer of Firm C.
It follows that for Mr H to make a complaint to this service about Portal, he needed to ask the 
FSCS for a re-assignment of those rights. I can see Mr H has now obtained that which 
contains, as a condition, the following requirement:
The Claimant agrees that in respect of the Reassigned Rights the proceeds of the claim 
shall first be applied to repay an amount equal to the Compensation Sum to FSCS together 
with interest on the Compensation Sum from the date of receipt of the proceeds by the 
Claimant to the date of payment by the Claimant to FSCS at a daily rate equivalent to the 
Bank of England base rate from time to time (subject to a minimum rate of 0.1%), such 
payment to be made to FSCS within 14 days of receipt. The payment to FSCS shall be 
made after the deduction from the proceeds of the Claimant's reasonable legal costs 
incurred in pursuing a claim in respect of the Reassigned Rights.
Portal may argue that because Mr H has already recovered £2,992.18 from the FSCS, it 
should not have to account to his for that portion of his loss. However, as per the 
reassignment of rights agreement Mr H entered into with the FSCS, I can see he has agreed 
to repay the compensation he received from the FSCS if he receives compensation from a 
third party relating to the same claim.
From this, I think that:
1. There is no real risk of Mr H benefiting from double recovery, as hes contractually 
required to pay back to FSCS the full amount of the compensation it paid to him; and
2. I have seen nothing to suggest Mr H is unlikely to comply with that requirement in 
accordance with the deed of reassignment;
3. If I didnt direct Portal to pay compensation to Mr H for the full amount of his loss (in 
circumstances where I have determined it is responsible for 100% of that loss), he 
would nonetheless still be required to account to FSCS from the compensation he 
receives from Portal and would, in turn, be left out of pocket.
All in all, I maintain my view that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Portal to pay Mr H 
compensation for the full amount of his loss.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the Portal to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
We previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr H.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
My aim is to return Mr H to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions of Portal. This 
is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the 
open market) as their value cant be determined, which appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should 
include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr H to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he/she/they receives. 
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr H to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mr H wish to move his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, 
the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr H can discuss 
with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are 
involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pay Mr H an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
Portal pays the balance.
Portal should also pay Mr H £250 for distress and convenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally requirePortal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman