DRN-2351754
complaint
Mrs and Mr L complained that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI) as part of a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), in 
2001. 
A TMPP was a type of protection policy which typically included PPI together with other 
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of 
the TMPP could be added or taken out as the consumer wished. Im looking specifically at 
the PPI cover here, because that is what has been complained about.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. Mrs and Mr Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
However, they didnt raise any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ls. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in making a decision 
about Mrs and Mr Ls complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I accept theres not much of the sale documentation left to look at after so long. However, 
businesses arent required to retain documents indefinitely and when complained about, this 
sale was already quite a long time in the past. Their mortgage had also been long closed.
Nevertheless, Ive seen quite a few very similar sales to this one, and my experience is that 
consumers were given a choice about PPI during a discussion they had with a mortgage 
adviser. Paperwork was then drawn up for the customer to see, based on that discussion. 
Halifaxs computerised records are still available in this case and these also tend to confirm 
that such a discussion took place and that Mrs and Mr L were asked about their eligibility for 
the PPI cover. The records say they agreed to the PPI.
Based on my experience of these particular sales, Mrs and Mr L would have also been given 
a schedule showing which, if any, elements of the TMPP they had chosen to take out and I 
see in this case they also agreed to the life cover and CIC. I also note they decided to split 
the PPI on a 30/70% basis, with Mr L being covered for a greater amount than Mrs L. So I 
think this shows they wanted to protect themselves against unforeseen events and they 
gave considerable thought as to how much each could claim, probably reflecting their 
respective incomes. Finally, in my view, Mrs and Mr L would have also had to authorise the 
monthly premiums for all these insurances to leave their bank account. 
Given all this, I think its much more likely Mrs and Mr L consented to the PPI, back in 2001.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr L as part of an advised sale. It therefore had a 
duty to check that the PPI was right for them. Ive considered this with care and Im satisfied 
the evidence about Mrs and Mr Ls circumstances of the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, they appear to have been eligible 
for the PPI and although they may have had some sick pay with their jobs, this doesnt 
necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable. It could have paid out a monthly sum for up to two 
years if claimed on, so I think the PPI was suitable and it being recommended to them 
wasnt unreasonable.  
Also, there was nothing obvious about their occupations which would have made it difficult 
for Mrs and/or Mr L to make a successful claim on the policy. We were told Mrs L had 
previously suffered from a medical condition. However, this appears to have been in 1989 
and there was no evidence submitted to us that implied she would have considered this, 
some 12 years later, to be something she would need to take time off work for. So I dont 
think this would have changed her mind about what she went on to do i.e. buy the PPI cover. 
Ive also considered what was said about Mrs and Mr L having different types of insurance, 
such as life insurance and death in service. However, these cover different things to the 
PPI.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave to Mrs and Mr L about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. However, in my view, this doesnt alter my overall decision. I 
think they chose to take the PPI out and it looks like they specifically wanted this type of 
cover, with Mr L being covered for a greater amount than Mrs L. It wasnt too dissimilar to 
what they reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were given at the 
point of sale. It seems like it would have been useful if something went wrong. 
Its possible they werent told that certain medical conditions might need some supporting 
evidence before a claim was paid. But I dont think Mrs and Mr L would have thought they 
could claim without providing at least some evidence. Because of this I dont think they 
would have declined the cover, even if Halifax had done more or explained things better.
Mrs and Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Mrs and Mr Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ls individual complaint, just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Ls particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the complaint. 
my decision
I do not uphold the complaint or make any award against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman