DRN-3218856
The complaint
B complained that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) refused to pay a claim for water damage to 
the business premises floor. B had a Shop insurance policy with Zurich for the business 
premises. Mr S brought the complaint on behalf of B, so Ill refer to both throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Mr S noticed water ingress in the shop basement. Six months later, he found that the floor 
within the shop was damaged, so he claimed under Bs policy. Zurich appointed a loss 
adjuster to investigate the damage and B appointed an engineer to carry out an assessment.
To begin with, Bs engineer thought the water ingress was due to a leak in the water mains. 
The water company investigated and found no evidence of a leak, but it did suggest that the 
ingress could be from surface water.
Bs engineer prepared a second report, indicating that the ground water entered the 
basement because it wasn't properly tanked. The engineer also reported that the drainage 
system at the back of the shop was inadequate, allowing water to drain from the roof directly 
onto the ground.
As a result of the investigations, Zurich declined Bs claim because it didnt think an insured 
event had happened. Zurich said the damage was due to ground water entering the 
premises gradually over time, which was excluded under the policy.
Mr S complained to Zurich saying he didnt use the basement or have access to the back of 
the shop, so he wouldnt have been aware of the problems. Zurich maintained its decision to 
decline the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was Mr Ss responsibility to maintain 
his business premises and it wasnt fair to hold Zurich responsible for the inadequate 
drainage system which had allowed water to ingress gradually over time.
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Bs complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment, but Ill 
explain why.
Both parties have provided a lot of information about this matter. Im not required to 
comment on each individual piece of evidence: instead Ive considered the complaint overall 
and Ill focus on the key points to explain my decision.
The issue is that Mr S doesnt think it was fair Zurich declined Bs claim for damage to the 
shop premises caused by water ingress.
Zurich declined the claim because it didnt think thered been an insured peril, and it relied on 
the following policy exclusion:
Damage caused by or happening through:
a) faulty or defective design materials handling or workmanship, inherent fault or defect, 
undiscovered defect, gradual deterioration or wear and tear. 
Ive looked at the policy documents and I note that Zurich provides cover for a list of insured 
perils. Until the cause of the damage was known, I can see why Mr S thought the business 
would be covered, and why Zurich investigated the claim. However, having considered Bs 
engineer reports and the loss adjusters conclusions, Im satisfied that Zurich reasonably 
explained to Mr S that the damage wasnt an insured peril. Thats because the experts 
reports confirmed that the water ingress was the result of inadequate tanking in the 
basement and inadequate drainage to the back of the premises which gradually soaked the 
premises over time.
Mr S provided video footage of the water running from a drain directly onto the ground and 
he said himself that hed noticed water in the basement six months earlier. The water runs 
out of a drain which falls well short of the ground, allowing it to saturate the wall and ground 
beneath. Having looked at this and the photos Mr S provided, Im satisfied that Zurichs 
conclusion that the damage happened over time was reasonable. 
I understand Mr S doesnt think hes to blame because he doesnt use his basement and he 
doesnt have ease of access to the back of the property. I dont doubt either of these points. 
However, I cant fairly hold Zurich responsible for the damage to the shop premises resulting 
from a gradually operating cause which isnt covered under the policy.
Overall, Im satisfied that Zurich declined Bs claim, reasonably citing the policy exclusion for 
gradual deterioration. I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman