DRN-3540032
The complaint
Mr B complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited has rejected his claim made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a solar panel system 
he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
What happened
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in 2019, after a visit by a representative from the 
installer, who Ill call E. Mr B agreed to buy the panels with a 10 year fixed sum loan from 
Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF). 
Mr B later made a claim under section 75 of the CCA to OCRF. He said that E had told him 
the solar panels would be self-funded by the Feed In Tariff  (FIT) scheme, but he had found 
there was a shortfall between his savings and his monthly loan repayments, and he was not 
made aware of the full cost of the panels including interest. He considered this to be a 
misrepresentation, which had induced him to enter into the contract with E. The claim also 
raised some concerns over the sales process. When making the section 75 claim Mr B 
provided the quotation/order, the finance agreement and evidence of his FIT payments. 
OCRF responded and said that the credit agreement made the total cost of the system clear 
and the panels were performing within a 10% tolerance of the estimated performance on the 
SAP calculation.  It also asked for copies of Mr Bs energy bills. 
Mr. B complained and OCRF investigated further, it concluded the sales documentation 
made it clear that the monthly benefits would be less than the loan repayments and Mr B 
had signed a validation form confirming he had had a full explanation of the system, 
understood how the loan and the repayments worked and had the opportunity to ask 
questions. And that there was no evidence to support Mr Bs other assertions around the 
sale.  
As Mr. B remained unhappy, one of our investigators looked into what had happened. He 
came to the conclusion that the benefits of the solar panel system hadnt been 
misrepresented, as the paperwork made it clear that the FIT payments wouldnt cover the 
cost of the repayments.
Mr B, via his representative, didnt accept the investigators view.  The representative 
submitted a further document which detailed the benefits of the system and indicated that Mr 
Bs monthly contribution would be zero.  They also said that other cases had been upheld 
based on verbal testimony, and Mr B was adamant he was told the system would not cost 
him anything.  
The investigator shared the new information with OCRF and asked for its comments. OCRF 
said it had checked with E who said that it did not recognize the later document as one they 
had ever used.  OCRF said it had nothing further to add. The investigator reviewed all the 
evidence he had and spoke to Mr B to get his recollection of the sale and what he 
understood from the documentation. 
The investigator did not change his opinion on the case, and as agreement couldnt be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA. S75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or service bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr B paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan, OCRF agrees that s75 applies to the 
transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against OCRF  the creditor  for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by E in the same way he could have claimed against 
the E, the supplier. So, Ive taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and E, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by E as an agent of OCRF.
Ive reviewed all the evidence submitted by all parties.  The initial letter of complaint stated 
that Mr B was told verbally that his solar panel system would effectively self-fund on his FIT 
income alone.  
Ive taken account of Mr Bs conversations with our investigator in which he recalled and 
reviewed some of the paperwork he was given at the time of the sale.  Mr B confirmed he 
was aware of the monthly payment of £65, and what he was likely to receive from the 
panels, although he wasnt clear if that was month or per quarter.  He did not recall anything 
about the paper which set out the 25-year benefit and his zero monthly contribution.   
The loan agreement, signed by Mr B sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Im satisfied that this is clear.  
Ive also looked at the System Performance Information Sheet, which includes this 
information I consider this document above makes it clear the amounts Mr B could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and savings and his overall yearly benefits. This document was included 
in Mr Bs original claim to OCRF, along with the signed quote/order form, so Im confident it 
formed part of the paperwork at the time of the sale.  Given that the FIT benefits are so 
clearly set out, I would have expected Mr B to have identified the significant difference 
between the estimated FIT income and his monthly loan payments.  
Ive also considered the document supplied by Mr Bs representatives which they say was 
overlooked when they made their initial submissions.  This document stated the year 1 
benefits from the system would be £1,150 and the benefits over 25 years would be £25,573.  
It also goes on to say that for the self-financing option the monthly cost is £65.65 and that 
Mr Bs contribution is zero per week/month. If I compare this document to the other 
documents, again I would have expected Mr B to have questioned the varying amounts he 
was being told.   
Ive taken account of OCRFs statement that E have said this is not a document from their 
sales process, and that when we asked Mr Bs representatives about this document 
specifically, they said it was unrealistic to expect Mr B to remember the exact details of his 
meeting given how long time had passed. So, I havent been able to satisfactorily establish 
that this document was part of the paperwork given to Mr B at the time of sale or that he 
relied on it when reaching his decision to enter into the contract.  
Overall while Ive carefully considered Mr Bs testimony, given what Ive said above Im not 
persuaded that the benefits of the solar panel system were mis-represented to him in the 
way he says it was.  So, on balance I find it unlikely that there was a misrepresentation that 
would enable me to uphold his complaint.  
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A of the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding 
is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a 
consumer. OCRF has confirmed that it paid no commission to E and, considering that I 
havent found any misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an 
unfair relationship here under the Act.
Ive thought about Mr Bs concerns that he wasnt told about any cooling off period or 
cancellation rights. I think that these were clearly set out in the credit documentation with 
which he was provided. So, I havent found that Mr B wasnt told about his rights to withdraw 
from the contract. Mr B also raised some concerns about the sales process. He said a 
proper affordability check wasnt conducted. OCRF have said appropriate credit checks were 
carried out, and Ive seen no evidence or reasoning to support the allegations that they 
werent. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman