DRN-3190215
The complaint
Mr M complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited didnt cancel an ISA transfer when 
he asked them to. As a result, his money was moved to an ISA with a different provider.
What happened
Mr M arranged to transfer his ISA from Equiniti to a new provider in August 2020. But he 
changed his mind. He called Equiniti on 13 August, and was told the transfer wouldnt go 
ahead. But it did. Equiniti accept that they should have done more to stop it going ahead.
By 17 August, Mr Ms money was with a new ISA provider. My understanding is that the new 
ISA was managed on a discretionary basis. That meant Mr M had no direct control over what 
investments could be bought and sold using his money. 
That was a problem, because Mr M says that on 21 August he wanted to buy a specific set 
of shares. That seems to be when he realised the ISA transfer had gone ahead. 
Equiniti tried to put things right by asking the new ISA provider for the money back. But Mr M 
stopped this from happening. Equiniti wrote to Mr M on 26 August about this. 
Mr M replied and said he wanted the share purchase placed at the price hed tried to get 
previously. Equiniti responded on 3 September, saying Mr M would need to release the 
money back to them in order to do that. They also explained: 
Once the cash has settled back into your account, we can arrange to trade at the 
original price that you were looking to make the trade at.
Mr M wasnt happy with Equinitis response, so the matter escalated to a complaint. In 
response to that, Equiniti offered Mr M £100 for the inconvenience caused by their error, but 
now felt the trade Mr M had planned to make was too hypothetical to compensate him for. 
Further complaint correspondence moved on to explain Equiniti felt Mr M should have done 
more to lessen the impact of the mistake. 
Unresolved, the complaint came to us. Our investigator looked at the details above, and 
found Equinitis proposals at the time had been reasonable to put things right. So she didnt 
feel it was fair to ask them to do anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M didnt accept this, feeling the time it would have taken to buy the shares in 2020  after 
the mistaken transfer had been completed  would have seen the price move too much for 
the purchase to be worthwhile. He repeated his feeling that Equiniti should be responsible 
for the difference in the price of the shares when he intended to buy them, and what theyd 
be worth now. 
The complaints come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As everyone whos looked at this case has seen, there was a failing in Equinitis service. 
When they told Mr M the ISA transfer wouldnt go ahead, thats what should have happened. 
But the issue is what will be a fair remedy for that. And on that point, I find I agree with our 
investigator  Equiniti have already offered enough. Ill explain why.
My starting point is usually to consider what would have happened, if the service had been 
reasonable. Here, Mr Ms money would have been available to him  in the Equiniti ISA  
when he wanted to buy the shares on 21 August. Instead, it was in an ISA that wouldnt 
allow him to buy the shares. 
Looking at Equinitis initial attempts to put things right, their efforts could have got Mr M to 
the right sort of position, if theyd been able to recover the money from the new ISA provider. 
They couldnt get the money back though. But that wasnt because of a further mistake by 
Equiniti  it was because Mr M wouldnt allow the money to go back to where it had been. 
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about the time it would have taken to transfer the money 
back. Ive contacted the new ISA provider and asked them how long it would have taken to 
send the money back to Equiniti. Theyve told me they could have returned the money theyd 
received on 17 August by 18 August. 
I can appreciate that the mistake here might have left Mr M questioning whether he wanted 
his money to go back to Equiniti. Administrative errors can undermine confidence. So Ive 
thought about what else could have been done to solve this problem. 
Ive gone again to the new ISA provider. I asked how a customer would go about investing in 
the shares Mr M wanted to buy. They told me a different type of ISA  called an execution 
only ISA  would need to be set up. They told me it would take 24 to 48 hours to transfer a 
discretionary ISA like Mr Ms to an execution only ISA. 
Both of these options could have put things right here, except that they needed a little bit of 
time to do. I can appreciate Mr M might have been concerned hed be out of pocket if he 
went ahead with either option, if the share price moved while he was waiting for the problem 
to be fixed.
But then I come to the offer Equiniti made in their contact with Mr M on 3 September. The 
section Ive quoted should have been enough to reassure Mr M that if he acted to put things 
right at that point, he wouldnt be left out of pocket. 
Had Mr M allowed the money to go back, or if hed taken some action himself to make the 
purchase he hadnt been able to make, I feel Equinitis offer would have put this matter right. 
I dont consider it Equinitis fault that neither of those things happened. 
Equiniti later removed the offer to make up the difference in the price of the shares. I think 
that was reasonable, as by then the movement in the share price no longer reflected just the 
impact of their mistake. It also reflected the time the matter had been unresolved, despite 
Equiniti having made a reasonable suggestion for how to fix it. 
The remaining offer  £100 to acknowledge the inconvenience caused by the initial error  
doesnt put Mr M in the position he would have been if the service had been reasonable. But its in keeping with our approach of using compensation to acknowledge theres been some 
impact from a businesss mistake. 
Here, Mr M was left with a problem that needed to be sorted out. I dont find Equiniti are 
responsible for the problem not being solved. But the £100 theyve offered does enough to 
acknowledge their mistake caused the problem to start with. 
With all that in mind, Ive found Equiniti have done enough here to put things right. As Im not 
going to direct them to do anything more, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman