DRN-1787539
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the service she received from HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) regarding 
an international transfer she sent to India.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs A and HSBC, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
In summary Mrs A sent an international transfer to India but this was delayed. Mrs A has 
said that the delay was caused by HSBC and impact of the delay on her life was huge. It 
caused her to get a marginal fail in her MBA, her husband divorced her and her health was 
affected. HSBC have accepted they made an error which caused some delay but not all of it. 
They did not think they were responsible for the consequences Mrs A described. HSBC 
offered £200 in compensation to Mrs A which she rejected. 
When our investigator considered the complaint he concluded that the sum offered was fair 
and reasonable. Mrs A didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  In cases where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I work on what is known as 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely to have happened 
in the light of the evidence which is available, and the wider circumstances of the case. 
When Mrs A gave instructions for the transfer, HSBC made an error in using her details 
rather than the beneficiarys details. This undoubtedly caused some delay, which Mrs A puts 
at 9 days. But at the same time the receiving bank requested further information from Mrs A 
which also caused delay. Ive seen the timeline which our investigator set out in his view, 
and it is correct. It shows that HSBC did not add to any delay in seeking this further 
information from Mrs A, so I cannot say they have acted unfairly in that respect.
But, International payments do sometimes take longer than domestic transfer payments and 
this is set out in HSBCs terms and conditions, where it is anticipated that on some 
occasions the transfer may take longer than the usual 4 days depending on the country the 
money is being sent to. So Mrs A was on notice that this might be a possibility, and even though it must have been terribly frustrating for her, I cant say HSBC have acted unfairly as 
it was in the terms and conditions.
HSBC has however accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it should pay 
some compensation. So, having said that, I think the decision I have to make distils down to 
what the correct amount of compensation ought to be. HSBC have already paid Mrs A £100 
and offered a further £100 making a total of £200 to settle the complaint. Ive given further 
thought as to whether this is sufficient and Ive taken into account that initially HSBC 
disputed that they had done nothing wrong at all. 
Mrs A has said that the impact of HSBCs mistake has had a devastating effect upon her life. 
I am extremely sorry to hear of all the effects she feels HSBCs error has caused, but I am 
afraid I cannot agree that there is any direct causative link between the two. I have no doubt, 
and do accept, that she will have been caused additional stress and anxiety, but there is no 
evidence produced which would satisfy me that a 9 day delay in transferring money to 
relatives could have, or has had, the consequences she describes.
So Ive also considered the level of awards this service has made for distress and 
inconvenience in similar cases, and putting all of this into the balance I think what HSBC has 
paid and offered is fair and reasonable. And I think it is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mrs A will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say HSBC has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
HSBC has already paid £100 to Mrs A, and also made an offer to pay £100 more to settle 
the complaint. This is fair and reasonable. So my final decision is that HSBC should pay Mrs 
A an additional £100.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman