DRN-1680589
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint is about a mortgage she had with Santander UK Plc. She thinks:
the early repayment charge (ERC) was too high as its more than the total interest that 
would have been paid over the remainder of the term of the interest rate product it was 
linked to;
she should have been given the option of paying the remaining payments on the 
mortgage until the end of the interest rate product and have the ERC waived, regardless 
of whether her home was sold;
the 10% annual overpayment allowance should have been deducted from the balance 
the ERC was calculated on; and 
the porting window for the interest rate product should have been delayed so that it 
started when this final decision was issued.
What happened
In 2018 Mrs W bought a property with the aid of a Santander mortgage. The mortgage was 
for £175,000 over a term of 35 years. Attached to the mortgage was an interest rate product 
that fixed the interest rate at 2.29% until July 2020. An ERC was attached to the interest rate 
product of 3% of the capital paid off. Mrs W was allowed to pay up to 10% of the mortgage 
balance in overpayments each year. 
In 2019 Mrs W decided she wanted to sell her property and pay off the mortgage. She 
wasnt happy about paying the ERC of 3% of the outstanding balance as she would only 
have around six months of the product term left when the mortgage would be paid off. The 
ERC was considerably more than the interest she would have been paying over the 
remainder of the interest rate product term, if she hadnt decided to sell. She complained to 
Santander.
The property was sold in 2020, before the end of the interest rate product term, and Mrs W 
had to pay the ERC.
Santander didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint when it responded to her. It said it was unable to 
agree to her paying the interest that would have been due on the mortgage over the 
remainder of the product if the mortgage was no longer in existence. The offer it sent her 
before she took the mortgage had explained the ERC; how much it would be and when it 
would be payable. She had accepted the terms of the mortgage and so it wasnt 
unreasonable for it to charge the ERC. 
In relation to the request about the porting window for the interest rate product, Santander 
said allowing three months between the mortgage being repaid and the new one starting 
was a concession. It was not able to extend that window to an indefinite time in the future. It 
also confirmed that Mrs W was entitled to use the 10% overpayment allowance before she 
redeemed her mortgage, but it couldnt be deducted from the amount being paid off when 
the mortgage was being redeemed for the purpose of calculating the ERC.
Mrs W wasnt happy with Santanders decision and referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. She said she was surprised that he felt that such a massive increase in costs 
associated with ending a mortgage three months early was justifiable. She said if the charge 
was realistic Santander would not be in business. She maintained that she should, as a 
worst-case scenario, have been allowed to pay any potential interest and give Santander the 
money back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W put forward suggestions that would allow her to avoid or reduce the ERC payable 
when she paid off the mortgage. As our adjudicator explained, the mortgage is run based on 
the terms and conditions of the contract. If the terms and conditions dont allow something to 
be done, then it would only be possible if Santander agreed a concession to the contract, as 
it does when it allows a porting window for interest rate products where the closure of the old 
and start of the new mortgages are not simultaneous. However, it has to be something both 
parties want and agree to. As such, I cant find that Santander not accepting Mrs Ws 
suggestions was unreasonable.
I would also comment, that a lender doesnt release the charge on the Land Registry title for 
a property until a mortgage has been repaid. In such circumstances the ownership of the 
property wouldnt be able to be transferred, so not paying the mortgage off when a property 
is sold isnt something that would be possible. And if the mortgage was paid off, the contract 
would end, so Santander wouldnt be able to continue taking payments under it. 
In order to be able to lend to customers, lenders will borrow tranches of money from other 
organisations. As with loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with 
borrowing that money and repaying it early. The lender has to calculate what arrangements 
it needs in place to be able to lend that money out. There are potential risks associated with 
doing so, because some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender wont be received, but the lender 
is still liable for the cost of borrowing the money and costs if it repays its own borrowing 
early. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed to charge an ERC to cover the costs to it of consumers 
repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but is more 
commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages and based on a 
proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the lenders experience of the 
likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. Calculating an ERC on 
this basis is acceptable to the regulator.
I have noted Mrs Ws comment that she doesnt believe the costs are realistic and if they 
were, Santander wouldnt be in business. ERCs must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
loss suffered by Santander if the mortgage is paid early; if it is, Santander can make the 
charge. I have seen the evidence of the calculations, although they cant be made publicly 
available as theyre commercially sensitive, I am satisfied the charge in this case is a 
reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I know this will disappoint Mrs W, but I dont consider Santander acted unreasonably in 
charging an ERC when she paid her mortgage off early or that the amount was 
inappropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 
18 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman