DRN-3038631
The complaint
Miss H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her two packaged bank accounts  in 2006 
and 2008.
 
What happened
Miss H had had a bank account with Lloyds since 2001. The account was originally fee free. 
But in June 2006 the account was changed to a Gold account which had a monthly fee of 
£7. Then in December 2008 the account was changed to a Platinum account which had a 
monthly fee of £17. (By then the Gold account had risen to £12 each month.) 
The Gold account had a package of benefits which included AA roadside breakdown cover, 
mobile phone insurance, Sentinel card protection; and overdrafts (if agreed) were interest 
free up to £100.  
The Platinum accounts benefits included worldwide travel insurance, AA breakdown cover 
(Roadside, Relay, Home Start and Accident Management), mobile phone insurance, 
Sentinel card protection; and overdrafts (if agreed) were interest free up to £250.  
Miss H says she was told that, to have an overdraft, she would need a fee-paying account 
and that fee-free accounts were no longer available with overdrafts. She says that, when she 
tried to use the AA benefit when her car broke down, she was told shed have to upgrade; 
and she says she was unable to use the mobile phone insurance. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Miss H didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss H is saying that she was given incorrect information by Lloyds, and wouldnt have 
upgraded her account if she hadnt believed this was the only way to have an overdraft. 
The problem is that this all happened over 13 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt remember the detail of what happened that long ago. So it may not be fair 
for me to rely just on what they now remember. And it also wouldnt usually be fair to 
make Lloyds prove that it didnt do something wrong. Instead Id need reasonable 
evidence that it probably did mislead Miss H. And I dont have that evidence. 
I can also see that there may have been reasons why Miss H freely chose to upgrade to 
the Gold account. It did come with benefits which she might have imagined wanting to 
use, such as the breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. Also she seems to have 
benefited from the interest-free overdraft  and I can see there may have been 
discussions around this benefit being available only with the Gold accounts monthly fee.
I can also see that Miss Hs upgrade to the Platinum account could have been to access 
the greater benefits it offered. The records show that she had wanted to use the AA Relay 
service just before she upgraded to Platinum  this wasnt available free on the Gold 
account but was on the Platinum account. So this does suggest that her decision to 
upgrade to the Platinum account was an informed one. 
The potentially useful benefits show that recommendations by Lloyds, that she upgrade, 
would have been suitable recommendations  it would then have been up to Miss H to 
decide if she thought it was good value for money. I cant be sure how full the information 
Lloyds gave was, but these packaged bank accounts were fairly straightforward; and so I 
think its likely Miss H was given enough information to make a decision.
I cant know for certain why Miss H upgraded but, as Ive said, I dont have enough 
evidence to say Lloyds misled her in the way she believes. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman