DRN-3620315
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon failed to complete the transfer 
of his pension savings in a timely manner. And he complains that Aegon provided him with 
an incorrect assurance that his transfer would be prioritised. As a result, Mr S says, he 
suffered a fall in the value of his pension savings, and lost the opportunity to take an income 
payment in the 2019-20 tax year.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr S held pension savings with a part of Aegon. Those savings were held as part of 
its with-profits fund. Since Mr S wished to access his benefits flexibly it was 
necessary for them to be transferred to an alternative retirement product that Aegon 
offered. Aegon has explained that this transfer was between two different legal 
entities, and so shouldnt be considered as an internal movement of funds.
Given the nature of Mr Ss pension savings, it was necessary for him to take financial 
advice before the transfer could be completed. Aegon put Mr S in touch with a 
financial advisor firm that it had arranged for consumers to use in circumstances 
such as these. That firm is separately regulated, and Aegon is not responsible for its 
actions or advice. So this decision will not consider any part of the relationship 
between Mr S and the financial advice firm.
Aegon says it received a transfer request from the financial advisor, on Mr Ss behalf, 
on 13 March 2020. Mr S says that the paperwork had been sent to Aegon on 
4 March. On 16 March Aegon started to process the transfer instruction and received 
confirmation that the transfer had been made on 27 March. The funds were received 
on 1 April, added to Mr Ss new SIPP the following day, and a pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) was paid on 
3 April. The remaining balance was then invested in line with Mr Ss instructions.
Mr S says that he was closely monitoring the transfer via his online access to his 
SIPP that had been opened on 3 March. On 16 March Mr S called Aegon to request 
an update on the progress of the transfer. During that call he was told by Aegon that 
it could prioritise his transfer and he should expect it to complete around a week 
later. And I can see that an email requesting this prioritisation was sent to the 
processing area by the call handler.
 
But that information was incorrect  Aegon would only prioritise a transfer if it had 
been delayed by an error it had made. That wasnt the case here, so the prioritisation 
request shouldnt have been made. And so Mr Ss transfer was completed within 
Aegons normal processing parameters.
When Mr S complained to Aegon he said that the delay to his transfer had caused 
him to lose out in two ways. Firstly, the delay to the disinvestment of his original 
pension savings had seen them fall in value by approximately £9,000. And he said 
that the delay meant he had been unable to take an income payment before the end 
of the tax year so left some of his basic rate allowance unused.
Aegon didnt agree that it had caused any undue delays when it processed Mr Ss 
transfer. It said that it had met its own normal service standards. But Aegon accepted 
that it gave some incorrect information to Mr S about his transfer being prioritised. 
And it understood the great disappointment that incorrect information had caused to 
Mr S. So it paid him £500 in recognition of the upset hed been caused.
There are two aspects to this complaint that I need to consider. Firstly, whether 
Aegon completed Mr Ss transfer in a timely manner. And secondly I need to 
consider the impacts of the incorrect information Mr S was given about his transfer 
being prioritised. I will deal with each matter in turn.
 
The terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ss pension savings do not provide any 
explicit timescales for the transfer of monies to another scheme. In my experience 
that isnt uncommon  often the terms were written many years before when 
processing automation was very different, or providers understand that they need to 
deal with peaks in their workload, or external complications such as we have recently 
seen from the disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic. So generally, and in 
the case of Mr Ss retirement product, the terms will simply require a transfer to be 
completed as soon as is reasonably practical.
The timings of a transfer are clearly of great concern to consumers who want to 
understand when they might gain access to their pension savings, or be able to 
invest them into an alternative scheme. And so the pensions industry as a whole has 
been considering whether further definition is required around expected timings. And, 
as our investigator noted, a consultation document was issued in 2018 that looked at 
what might be appropriate. In general that document suggested that an end to end 
timescale of 10 working days might be considered reasonable for a standard transfer.
But that document also noted that there were many reasons why such a timescale 
might be extended. And I note that it also contained reference to a speech made by 
The Minister for Pensions and Financial Inclusion, in April 2018, when he said that he 
favours an end-to- end timescale of no more than a few weeks. The document 
concluded that the framework was voluntary, not intended to be prescriptive and 
designed to complement providers existing practices And, as the Aegon has 
pointed out, it was not a member of the trade bodies that developed that document.
So Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable to treat the timescales discussed in 
the consultation document as evidence of good industry practice, or a definitive 
target that Aegon needed to meet when processing a transfer. As I said earlier, this 
Service is not the regulator of Aegon  that is the FCA. And it is for the FCA to 
determine whether the normal processing practices of Aegon are reasonable and 
meet its requirements in terms of treating customers fairly.
Here, I am looking at Mr Ss particular complaint. And I need to consider whether 
Aegon processed his transfer fairly, specifically in reference to its normal published 
processing timescales, and the circumstances of his request.
At the start of the process there is an unexplained delay between when the financial 
advisor says it issued Mr Ss transfer request, and when it was received by Aegon. The financial advisor hasnt provided us with any evidence to show how, or when, 
that instruction was sent to Aegon. But Aegon has shown us that it date stamped the 
instruction on receipt on 13 March. I havent seen anything that makes me think 
Aegon received, and failed to action, Mr Ss transfer instruction before 13 March. So 
that is the date that I should reasonably consider to be start point of Aegons 
processing.
Aegon started to process Mr Ss transfer request the next working day. And the 
disinvestment of his pension savings, and the transfer of his monies, was completed 
on 27 March  that is a period of ten working days and in line with what Aegon says 
are its published service standards. I dont think that processing time is 
unreasonable, particularly bearing in mind the increased volumes that Aegon would 
face at that time due to the approaching end of the tax year.
 
As I said earlier, Mr Ss pension savings were originally held in a separate legal entity 
to where they were transferred. So it seems entirely right that any transfer of funds 
between those two entities should be transparent and make use of the normal 
banking systems. So it isnt surprising that there was a normal three-day delay 
between the funds being transferred on 27 March, and them being received, before 
being added into Mr Ss new SIPP on 2 April. And I can see that the PCLS was then 
paid to Mr S the following day, with the payment being confirmed to him by email.
So, from the evidence I have seen, I cannot reasonably conclude that Aegon was 
responsible for any unreasonable delays in the processing of Mr Ss transfer.
Aegon accepts that it provided incorrect information to Mr S when it offered to 
prioritise his transfer request during his phone call on 16 March. Aegon has told us 
that it should only agree to prioritising the processing of a request when it has been 
responsible for any undue delays. Since that wasnt the case here, there were no 
grounds to prioritise Mr Ss instruction.
I think what Aegon has said is entirely reasonable. It cannot prioritise its processing 
queue on the basis of which consumers exert the greatest pressure for the 
completion of their instructions. Instead, and in line with its regulatory responsibilities, 
Aegon needs to ensure that all consumers are treated equally, and any requests are 
processed in strict rotation. So I think it is right that no special treatment was given to 
Mr Ss instruction.
But of course that isnt what Aegon told Mr S it would do. But I dont think that error 
means that Aegon should have ultimately prioritised Mr Ss request. As I said earlier, 
when something has gone wrong, Id expect to place the consumer into the position 
they would have been if the error hadnt occurred. Here, the correct response to 
Mr Ss question would have been for Aegon to explain to him that it couldnt prioritise 
his request. And had that happened, Mr Ss request would have been processed in 
the same timescales that I have set out above.
It is entirely understandable that the incorrect information Aegon gave to Mr S 
caused him a great deal of distress and inconvenience. I understand that as a result 
of his transfer completing later than he had expected, Mr S needed to delay, or 
revise, some purchasing plans. So I think it is right that Aegon has paid him £500 to 
reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused. I think that amount of compensation 
is entirely in line with what I would expect to award in circumstances such as these.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr S. But I dont currently think 
the time Aegon took to transfer his pension savings to the new flexible product was unreasonable. So it follows that I dont currently think Aegon needs to pay Mr S any 
compensation either in relation to the time at which his pension savings were 
disinvested, or when he was able to take income from his pension savings. I think 
that the compensation Aegon has paid to Mr S in relation to the disappointment 
caused by the incorrect information is reasonable.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Aegon hasnt provided us with anything further. Mr S has said that he is 
disappointed with my provisional findings. He says that, whilst he was given compensation 
by Aegon for being misinformed, he was clearly told that his instruction would be prioritised. 
He says that his instruction should have been completed within that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought about what Mr S has said, I am not persuaded that I should change 
my provisional findings. But I would like to comment further on the point that he has raised.
As I explained in my provisional decision, my aim if there was a mistake would be to put 
Mr S back into the position he would have been had that error not occurred. Here, the error 
that Aegon made was offering to prioritise Mr Ss instruction  not failing to implement that 
promise. If nothing had gone wrong, then Aegon would not have made that offer to Mr S and 
so his instruction would have been processed in line with its normal timescales.
So the loss Mr S has faced is one of a loss of expectation. There is no doubt that would have 
caused him a great deal of disappointment. So that is why I thought it right that Aegon had 
already made a compensatory payment to Mr S to reflect that.  But I dont think that Aegon 
should have been required to process Mr Ss instruction any more quickly than it did.
In summary, I dont think the time Aegon took to transfer Mr Ss pension savings to the new 
flexible product was unreasonable. I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Scottish Equitable Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman