DRN-3335025
The complaint
Ms C complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) , unfairly turned down her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
Ms C, along with her partner, bought a timeshare from a timeshare supplier in August 2009. 
The total cost of membership was £4,140, which was paid for by way of a loan taken from 
BPF. That loan was taken out in Ms Cs sole name and paid off in February 2012. 
In September 2019, Ms C (using a professional representative) made a claim against BPF 
for problems she said she had had with the timeshare.1 In particular she said:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to her, in particular about the 
availability of holidays, the quality of accommodation and the way the maintenance 
fees could increase.
The way the timeshare was sold mean the relationship between Ms C and BPF was 
unfair as set out in s.140A CCA.
The loan was unenforceable as the timeshare provider was not authorised to broker 
loans by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
BPF responded to the claim, but said it had been brought too late under the provisions set 
out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
Unhappy with the outcome of BPFs investigation into his claim, Ms C brought a complaint to 
our service that BPF had unfairly turned down the claim. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but concluded that BPF had acted fairly 
in turning down the claim. He thought that there were two potential claims Ms C could have 
made under s.75 and s.140A CCA, but both claims had been brought too late under the 
provisions in the LA. Ms C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision. 
1 Although the timeshare was in the names of Ms C and her partner, as the loan was in Ms Cs name 
only, she was the only person eligible to bring a complaint
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every 
point that has been raised.
Ms Cs representative responded to the investigators view and said it wanted an 
ombudsman to review the complaint and would send a substantive response later. The 
investigator gave a deadline by which any further evidence or arguments had to be sent in, 
but Ms C has not sent in anything further. As the deadline has now passed, I think there is 
enough for me to issue a final decision on this complaint.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Ms C is making to BPF. I 
will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Ms C says that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to her 
and her partner when they bought it. But under section 9 of the LA, Ms C had to make that 
claim within six years of when she entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which 
was in August 2009  because that is when she says she lost out having relied on false 
statements of fact. 
However, as Ms C first made a claim to BPF in September 2019, that fell outside of the time 
limit set out in the LA. 
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s. 140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to must consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under section 140A. And 
under section 9 of the LA,  Ms C had to make her claim within six years of when the loan 
ended  which was in February 2012. But as the claim was made in September 2019, it was 
made outside of the time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the lime limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA. 
Was the timeshare provider authorised to broker loans?
Ms C says that the timeshare provider was not authorised by the FCA at the time of sale, 
and so the loan is unenforceable. She says that this means BPF should return what was 
paid on the loan.
Ms C is right that in August 2009 the timeshare supplier was not authorised by the FCA. 
That is because at that date the regulation of consumer credit was handled by the Office of 
Fair Trading (OFT), and not the FCA. Having looked, I can see that the timeshare supplier 
did have the right OFT authorisations at the relevant time.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I currently think BPF acted fairly in turning down Ms Cs claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I also think the timeshare 
supplier had the right sort of authorisations at the time.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman