DRN-3384566
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays), wont refund the money she lost 
after falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) investment scam whereby she 
sent money to an account held at Barclays.
What happened
In summary, Miss K fell victim to a social media investment scam. As part of the scam, 
Miss K made a payment from a bank account she held with a different banking service 
provider, to an account held at Barclays.
On 28 July 2020, Miss K made the payment of £2,500 to the Barclays account. For 
completeness, Miss K did make several other payments as part of this scam, but these have 
been considered under separate complaint references with our service. 
After Miss K became aware shed fallen victim to a scam, she contacted her two different 
banks from which the payments were sent from and, also raised concerns about Barclays, 
where a receiving account was held. Miss K has also made a complaint about a separate 
banking service provider, as the Receiving Firm, where other receiving accounts were held  
this has been considered under a separate complaint with us.  
Both of Miss Ks banks (as the Sending Firms) and Barclays (as the Receiving Firm) are 
signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or 
Receiving Firm, they may be required to reimburse the customer. And the customer may 
also be required to share some responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also 
failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code.
Barclays, on becoming aware of the fraud, was unable to recover any of Miss Ks money. 
Unfortunately, no funds remained  as the funds had already been moved on or withdrawn.
Miss K has been refunded 50% of her losses from the two banking service providers she 
sent the payments from. This was on the basis that they considered they could have done 
more in the circumstances, but they also felt Miss K should bear some of the responsibility - 
so considered Miss K hadnt met her requisite level of care under the CRM Code. Miss K 
referred these complaints to our service under separate complaint references and these 
have been considered by our service. In brief, it was concluded under the CRM Code that 
both banking service providers had acted fairly in choosing to reimburse her for 50% of her 
losses.
Miss K feels Barclays, as one of the Receiving Firms, ought to share some responsibility and 
is unhappy that it couldnt recover the money for her. She also feels Barclays should refund 
her losses by allowing the receiving account to be put into a negative balance. 
Barclays didnt agree that it was liable for any loss Miss K incurred. It said the account was 
opened correctly, in line with its internal policies and procedures and, that it had complied 
with the regulatory requirements including identification and verification when opening and 
managing accounts. It also advised that it took the appropriate actions on being notified of 
fraud. 
Miss K referred her complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into things and 
didnt recommend that Barclays needed to do anything further. She explained she couldnt 
comment on whether or not there was any failings by Barclays when it opened the account. 
This was because complaints about receiving banks and any acts or omissions came into 
our jurisdiction from 31 January 2019 and as the receiving account was opened prior to this, 
she couldnt comment further on this aspect. She was satisfied Barclays had met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code and wasnt responsible for Miss Ks loss as it 
couldnt reasonably have done more to prevent her loss. She was also satisfied it had 
responded appropriately to the notification of fraud. 
Miss K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, for completeness, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Barclays  as the 
Receiving Firm of the account where Miss K made a payment to. Miss K has made a 
complaint about another banking service provider  as the Receiving Firm of other accounts 
she made payments to as part of this scam, but this has been considered under a separate 
complaint reference. Miss Ks other complaints about two other banking service providers, 
as the Sending Firms, have already been reviewed by our service under two different 
complaint references.  
Im sorry to disappoint Miss K but Im not upholding her complaint about Barclays. I know 
shes been the victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a 
significant impact on her. But I dont find Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
particular case. Im satisfied Barclays has met its requirements under the CRM Code and 
therefore isnt liable for Miss Ks losses. Ill explain why.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Barclays, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Barclays are a 
signatory of.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Barclays met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Barclays opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given Barclays any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether Barclays acts or omissions fairly resulted in Miss Ks 
loss.  I would like to point out to Miss K at this point, that while Barclays has provided our service 
with information about the receiving bank accounts  it has done so in confidence. This is to 
allow us to discharge our investigatory functions and Barclays has provided that which is 
necessary for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service 
cant share any information about the beneficiaries, the receiving bank accounts or any 
investigation and action Barclays subsequently took. However, I would like to assure Miss K 
I have thoroughly reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my 
decision.
Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
However, our service only has powers to consider complaints about Receiving Firms since 
31 January 2019  and we cant consider any acts or omissions carried out by a Receiving 
Firm that occurred before this date. That means if the account was opened before this date, I 
am unable to comment or make a finding as to whether I consider a Firm may have failed in 
its obligations in any way.
In this case, the beneficiary account was opened prior to 2019, so I am unable to comment 
on or make a finding about the account opening process  as the act of Barclays opening 
the accounts happened prior to when our service had the power to look into complaints 
about Receiving Firms. While I am unable to comment or make a finding here, for Miss Ks 
benefit, Barclays has said the account was opened in accordance with its procedures.
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to Barclays as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for accounts of that type. Im also satisfied 
that the account had been running for a reasonable time. Ive also seen that there was no 
notification of fraud on the account prior to the payment Miss K made into the account and, 
no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that Barclays might have had 
sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment 
instructions.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays has demonstrated that it has taken 
reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam 
funds. I also dont think Barclays ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have 
expected it to have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Miss Ks loss 
in this way either.Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Im satisfied Barclays took the necessary actions required of it and did 
so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, none of Miss Ks funds remained in the beneficiary 
account as they had already been moved on / withdrawn from the account.
 
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
Barclays responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice 
Standards. And I dont think I can fairly say Barclays didnt do enough to respond to the 
alleged APP fraud.
Overall, while Miss K was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that Barclays met 
the standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Barclays couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Miss Ks money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable to reimburse Miss K for her remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman