DRN-2437302
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt done more to help him since money was 
stolen from his account.
Background
Mr S has an account with Lloyds. In January 2020, he found an advert online for a second-
hand car which he was interested in buying. It was listed for £6,000.
Mr S says he contacted the seller and agreed to meet in person to inspect the vehicle 
outside a nearby supermarket. He had concerns about the vehicle  in particular, he noticed 
that the Engine Management Light was illuminated on the dashboard. He says he was 
reluctant to go ahead with the purchase. However, he says that the seller and two 
accomplices threatened him with a knife and forced him to transfer £2,000. He made that 
transfer using his banking app on the 15 January 2020.
Mr S contacted Lloyds to tell it hed been the victim of fraud. Lloyds investigated his 
complaint but said it wouldnt refund the payment to him. It said it found his explanation of 
these events to be contradictory. When he reported it, Lloyds says he didnt mention that 
hed arranged to meet someone to inspect a car. It also found it suspicious that Mr S had 
received a significant payment into his account (of just over £3,000) the day before he was 
coerced into making the transfer. Lloyds speculated that this showed that the people who 
pressured Mr S were aware that a significant payment had just been made into his account. 
Finally, it noted that Mr S had made several claims of fraud since opening his account in 
2018 and so was reluctant to take his testimony at face value. In February 2020, it chose to 
close his account.
Mr S was unhappy with the response he received from Lloyds and so he referred a 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it.
The Investigator looked at the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code to which 
Lloyds has signed up. Under certain circumstances, this code says that victims of scams 
should be reimbursed by their bank. In this instance, however, the investigator didnt think 
Mr S was the victim of a scam. He hadnt been deceived into believing he was making a 
legitimate payment. Based on his version of events, hed doubtless been the victim of a 
crime but that didnt mean that his complaint was covered by the CRM.
Mr S was unhappy the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been referred to me 
to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
From what Mr S has told us, he has been the victim of an appalling crime. I dont mean to 
downplay the significance of that at all. However, the scope of my investigation is limited to 
the actions taken by Lloyds. The primary responsibility for what happened here rests with the 
criminals who threatened Mr S and stole his money. 
It is common ground that the £2,000 was authorised, albeit Mr S says he did so under 
duress. He didnt want to make the transfer but did so because hed been threatened. Under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. However, considering the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, Lloyds had a range of other obligations to protect 
customers from fraud and scams and to reimburse its customers when they fall victim to 
scams.
Lloyds has signed up to the CRM code which sets out a range of circumstances under which 
it should compensate a customer after theyve fallen victim to a scam. Unfortunately, that 
code of practice is only applicable if Mr S has been the victim of a scam, as defined in the 
code itself. I dont think thats what happened to him here. 
The CRM code says that either of the following requirements must be met in order for this to 
considered a scam:
The customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but instead was 
deceived into transferring the funds to another person; or
The customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent.
There was no element of deception here. Mr S was threatened into transferring the money, 
but he wasnt promised anything in return. Nor did he decide to make the payment based on 
false information. Although this did take place in the context of Mr S inspecting a vehicle he 
was interested in buying, that wasnt the reason he made this transfer. Whilst Im sorry to 
have to disappoint him, I dont think the provisions of the CRM code applies here and so I 
dont think Lloyds needs to refund the £2,000 payment to him.
I also considered whether this payment ought to have triggered Lloyds fraud monitoring 
systems. It was expected to be on the lookout for unusual or out of character payments  but 
I dont think a transfer of £2,000 is so large that it wouldve warranted closer scrutiny on the 
part of Lloyds. Overall, Im satisfied it was reasonable for it to not step in and question the 
payment further and so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Lloyds to 
compensate Mr S.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman