DRN-2618853
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Liverpool Victoria Life Company Limited (LV) provided her with 
incorrect information when she asked for some annuity quotations in 2019. 
What happened
Mrs C, via her financial advisor, asked LV to provide her with annuity quotations when she 
intended to take some pension benefits in 2019. Initially the quotations were provided 
without the inclusion of a pension commencement lump sum payment (PCLS) - generally 
known as tax free cash. She then asked for revised quotations including a PCLS.
When those quotations were produced an error was made. LV produced quotations for a 
male, rather than a female. That resulted in the issued quotations being higher than they 
should have been. LV identified the error around two weeks later and issued revised 
quotations at the correct lower annuity amount.
Mrs C was unhappy that LV wasnt prepared to honour the higher (incorrect) quotation it had 
sent her. So she complained to the business. LV accepted that it had sent incorrect 
information to Mrs C, but said that she had never been entitled to the higher annuity. It made 
a number of offers to Mrs C to apologise for the error, with the final offer being one months 
annuity payment to reflect the delay it had caused, and a further £500 for the trouble and 
upset it had caused Mrs C. LV said it was sending Mrs C a cheque for the compensation, but 
reassured her that cashing the cheque would have no impact on her ability to refer the 
complaint to this Service.
As Mrs C remained unhappy with what LV had offered she brought her complaint to us. One 
of our investigators has looked into the complaint. She thought that what LV had done to put 
things right had been fair. So she didnt think LV needed to do anything further.
Mrs C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs C and by LV. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Here, there is little dispute that something went wrong. LV has admitted that the quotations it 
initially supplied to Mrs C, when she asked for them to include a PCLS, were incorrect. It has 
explained that due to human error the quotations were provided for a male, rather than a 
female. LV says that it sent corrected quotations out 12 days later when the error was 
identified although I accept Mrs C says that the information didnt reach her for another week 
or so due to it needing to be passed on by her financial advisor.
So what is left for me to decide on this complaint is what I think it reasonable to expect LV to 
do in relation to the incorrect quotation. I set out earlier what LV says it has already done so 
I need to consider whether those actions are fair. And I need to decide whether there are 
reasons why I think it would be appropriate for LV to honour the incorrect quotation.
I think it is worth noting that Mrs C was never entitled to receive the higher level of annuity 
income. That quotation was incorrect due to human error in entering the wrong gender when 
the quotation was generated. So, on the basis of what I set out above, putting Mrs C back 
into the position she would have been if nothing had gone wrong, would simply reflect Mrs C 
receiving the correct quotation at the outset and being paid the lower annuity income.
However things are not that simple. Mrs C was given incorrect information by LV  and 
I have no doubts that raised her expectations about the income she might receive from her 
pension savings. She was no doubt very disappointed when she found out that her income 
would be much lower. But I dont think that means Mrs C should be entitled to the higher 
annuity income, or that it would be reasonable for me to direct LV to pay those amounts.
I havent seen anything that makes me think Mrs C accepted the higher quotation from LV. 
So I think it unlikely that she would have put any irrevocable decisions in place about her 
finances until any annuity rate had been finally confirmed. Instead I think Mrs C remained in 
the process of exploring what LV, and Im sure other providers, would be willing to offer to 
pay to her. So I cant reasonably direct LV to honour the higher quotation for that reason 
either.
It does seem that LV accepts there were some delays in putting Mrs Cs annuity into 
payment. And for that reason LV has paid compensation to Mrs C equivalent to one months 
annuity income. I havent seen anything to make me think that LV was responsible for a 
delay of longer than one month so Id conclude that part of LVs offer is fair and reasonable.
So the final aspect I need to consider is the undoubted upset that Mrs C experienced when 
she discovered her retirement income would be lower than the initial quotation had 
suggested. But in considering that aspect of the complaint I need to bear in mind that LV 
corrected its error relatively quickly. And that Ive not seen any evidence of irreversible 
financial decisions being taken by Mrs C. Our website sets out our general approach to 
compensation in respect of trouble and upset. And Ive not seen anything here that makes 
me think our normal approach shouldnt be followed.
I would consider the trouble and upset this matter has caused to Mrs C to fall within our 
moderate banding. And so the £500 that LV has paid to Mrs C falls at the very top of our 
normal expectations. So I conclude that this part of the offer LV has made is also fair and 
reasonable.So in summary, whilst it is clear that LV failed to provide Mrs C with the levels of service that 
she might expect, I think what the business has done to put things right has been fair and 
reasonable. So whilst I uphold Mrs Cs complaint I dont require LV to do anything further.
Putting things right
I think that the compensation LV has paid to Mrs C is fair and reasonable. I dont know 
whether Mrs C received LVs cheque or if she cashed it. So if the payment remains 
outstanding, Mrs C should liaise with LV to ensure that the compensation payment is safely 
received.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. But I think that the compensation that 
Liverpool Victoria Life Company Limited has already paid is fair and reasonable. So I dont 
require the business to pay anything further.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman