DRN-3437972
The complaint
Mr B complains about the price Exeter Friendly Society Limited quoted him to renew a 
personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B held a Health Cover for Me personal private medical insurance policy. The policy 
renewed in May of each year. 
In March 2021, the Exeter issued Mr B with renewal documentation for the upcoming policy 
year. The quoted monthly policy premium increased from £684.38 to £829.20. Mr B was 
unhappy with the increase in price and he complained. He felt he and other policyholders 
had been ring-fenced into his particular scheme.
The Exeter said the price was right. It said that the premium had mainly increased due to Mr 
Bs age, together with local and medical inflation. 
Mr B chose not to renew the policy and so it lapsed in May 2021. He remained unhappy with 
the way the Exeter had administered his policy and so he asked us to look into his 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He explained that were not 
able to tell the Exeter how it should assess risk or what price it should charge to cover that 
risk. He didnt think the evidence indicated that the Exeter had singled Mr B out in any way 
and he thought it had calculated the price fairly.
Mr B disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I think the Exeter has treated him fairly 
and Ill explain why. 
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr Bs. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk. The 
Exeters entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, claims relating to Mr Bs health). And if it does, what price it needs to charge for 
that. 
So the Exeter will have assessed the risk of Mr B needing to make a claim when he took out 
the policy and then at each yearly renewal afterwards. If it thinks the risk has gone up (for 
example, because the risk-profile has increased or because health care costs have gone 
up), then it may need to put up the premium. Accordingly, in complaints like these, what I 
look at are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate the premium and whether its done 
so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that Mr B has been treated in the same way as any 
other customer of the Exeter in similar circumstances and havent been singled out in any 
way. 
Its clear that Mr B was quoted a renewal premium at renewal in 2021 which was over 20% 
higher than the premium he paid during the 2020-21 policy year. So I can understand why 
hes worried that the Exeter hasnt treated him reasonably. 
The Exeter explained to both Mr B and to us how the renewal premium in 2020 was 
calculated and the main factors it took into account when it calculated the renewal premium. 
Its also provided us with additional underwriting information which supports the information it 
gave to Mr B when it responded to his complaint. Im afraid that I cant share this additional 
evidence with Mr B, as its commercially sensitive and therefore its confidential. But I hope it 
reassures Mr B to know that I have considered this information carefully. 
Both the Exeter and our investigator explained the main reasons for the price increases to 
Mr B. These were Mr Bs age, together with medical inflation (and in particular, Mr Bs 
location). And as the Exeter set out on page 19 of its policy document (which formed the 
basis of Mr Bs contract with the Exeter), the most common reasons for increases are down 
to age, medical inflation and claims, which accords with the reasons Mr Bs quoted premium 
increased.
Id add too that while I appreciate Mr B feels that he was locked-in to the policy with the 
Exeter, I think the Exeter made it clear that he did have the option to shop around if he was 
unhappy with the level of cover. I can understand why Mr B may have preferred to remain 
with the Exeter, given a new provider was likely to exclude any existing medical history if he 
took out a new policy. But it remains the case that it was open to him to look elsewhere for 
cover if he was unhappy with the price and cover the Exeter could offer.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the Exeters treated Mr B in the same way it would 
any other policyholder who held the same type of policy and in similar circumstances to his 
own. So I cant reasonably say its treated him unfairly. Id add that as it seems Mr B 
cancelled the policy ahead of renewal, he didnt suffer any financial loss in any event. 
Considering all of the available evidence, Im satisfied the Exeter calculated Mr Bs renewal 
premium fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman