DRN-3212289
The complaint
Mr M complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited under his 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr M had a HomeCare policy with British Gas that covered him for repairs to his boiler in the 
event of a breakdown. When a British Gas engineer attended in September 2021, they noted 
that a new part was needed to repair Mr Ms boiler. As the part was obsolete, they advised 
Mr M he needed a new boiler. British Gas then cancelled Mr Ms boiler cover as it said it 
could no longer provide a service. 
Mr M complained. He said the part needed to repair his boiler wasnt obsolete and could be 
sourced on the open market. He wanted British Gas to fulfil its contractual obligations and 
repair his boiler. British Gas said it used a range of trusted suppliers to provide replacement 
parts but none of them were able to source the necessary part. It said it had given Mr M the 
option of sourcing the part himself and said that, as long as British Gas approved the part, its 
engineer could fit it for him. But it said Mr M had declined this offer. Instead, it said it would 
refund the premiums Mr M had paid for his boiler cover, from the date the manufacturer said 
the part had become obsolete, which was May 2019. It sent Mr M a cheque for £399.17. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He thought British Gas 
should source the part and repair his boiler.
Our investigator thought British Gas had acted fairly and reasonably by refunding the cost of 
Mr Ms boiler cover. So, he didnt think British Gas needed to take any further action. 
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think British Gas made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, in 
how it decided to resolve this matter. And, having thought carefully about everything he and 
British Gas have said, I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by this 
outcome, but I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision. 
Mr Ms insurance policy with British Gas covers situations like this where there might be 
problems getting hold of replacement parts. The terms of his policy say British Gas will try to 
get replacement parts from the original manufacturer or its approved suppliers. And if it cant 
get hold of the necessary part(s), it may need to cancel the policy (or part of it). So, I dont 
think it would be unreasonable for British Gas to cancel Mr Ms boiler cover if its unable to 
get hold of the part(s) it needs to repair his boiler. But the question here is whether British 
Gas should have done more to get hold of the part needed to repair Mr Ms boiler. Mr M says 
the part is available on the open market, while British Gas says its suppliers no longer have 
that part.
Mr M has said British Gas hasnt substantiated its claim that the replacement part is 
obsolete. But I have no reason to disbelieve what its said. British Gass records indicate that 
Mr Ms central heating system was installed in 1995. And an online check for the type of 
boiler owned by Mr M shows that it was manufactured between 1988 and 2001. British Gas 
has said that boilers have an expected lifespan of between 10 and 15 years, and 
manufacturers are only obliged to make replacement parts for 10 years after they cease 
production. I cant verify this information but it seems logical to me that replacement parts 
will be less readily available for older models of boilers than newer ones, particularly those 
that are over 20 years old. So, in these circumstances, I dont think it was unfair of British 
Gas to say it wasnt able to source the relevant part from the manufacturer or its trusted 
suppliers.
Mr M thinks British Gas should have sourced the necessary part from a third-party supplier 
and not just its trusted suppliers. But its not for me to decide which companies are included 
on its list of trusted suppliers. Thats rightly a business decision for British Gas to make. I can 
understand Mr Ms frustration if the relevant part is available from other suppliers. But I think 
British Gas has acted in line with the terms of Mr Ms policy by only trying to source that part 
from the manufacturer and its approved suppliers.
I also think British Gas acted fairly and reasonably by giving Mr M the option of sourcing the 
part himself. That was in line with the terms of his policy which says the policy holder can 
give its engineer a replacement part theyve bought themselves, as long as it approves the 
part. British Gas said it would fit the part if Mr M was able to source it himself. But he 
declined that option.
British Gas has agreed to refund the premiums Mr M paid for boiler cover from May 2019, 
which was when it says the manufacturer stopped making the part needed to repair his 
boiler. The terms of Mr Ms policy say, in these circumstances, British Gas will refund any 
money hes paid for his boiler cover since his last renewal date or his last claim, whichever 
was the more recent. Mr Ms policy renewed in October 2019 and British Gas attended 
Mr Ms property in August and September 2020. So, British Gas has gone beyond the terms 
of the policy by backdating the refund to May 2019 and so I think its offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr M faced and I can understand his frustration. But I 
dont think British Gas has treated him unfairly and I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
British Gas has given Mr M £399.17 to settle the complaint and I think that amount is fair in 
all the circumstances. It should pay that amount to him if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman