DRN-3845175
The complaint
Mr M complains that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd didnt give him a refund when he 
cancelled his motor insurance policy. He wants to be charged just for his time on cover and 
compensated. 
What happened
Mr M took out a policy through Right Choice, but he agreed to cancel this when it asked for 
an additional premium after it found that he was using his No Claims Discount (NCD) 
elsewhere. Two months later, and after Mr M complained, Right Choice gave Mr M a refund 
of £612.29. It didnt apply any charges for cancellation or lost commission, as a goodwill 
gesture. And it told Mr M that 8% simple interest had been considered, but not awarded as it 
thought it had compensated him sufficiently. Mr M wanted to be charged just for his time on 
cover and to be compensated. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Right 
Choice had correctly calculated the refund. But it hadnt added the interest it had considered. 
He thought Right Choice should add this interest as Mr M had been without his money for 
some time and pay him £100 compensation for providing him with incorrect information and 
for the delay in providing his refund. 
Right Choice said that Mr M had initially misrepresented information about his NCD. It said it 
had tried to keep the policy running for Mr M, but he had cancelled it. It said he had already 
benefited from £226.09 in its goodwill gesture. It thought this was adequate compensation. 
Right Choice asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator has explained, Mr M didnt complain to us that Right Choice had 
cancelled his policy. He complained to our service that he hadnt received a refund. And this 
was explained to Right Choice by the Investigator at the time he asked for its business file:
My understanding of the complaint is that Mr M didnt receive a refund after his insurance 
policy was cancelled.
So I can see no reason to consider Mr Ms possible misrepresentation or that Right Choice 
tried to keep the policy running.  
Mr M was unhappy that Right Choice hadnt paid his refund of premium and that it wanted 
him to talk to a finance company when Mr M had already closed the finance agreement. He 
said he had spent time making many calls and was caused stress and frustration. 
Right Choice, in its response to Mr Ms complaint agreed there had been service failings:
It delayed returning Mr Ms money to him. It said its target was 30 days, but it had taken 
60 days since the cancellation to pay a refund.
It had passed Mr M to the finance company needlessly, causing confusion and upset. 
To put things right, Right Choice initially offered to waive its commission and some of it 
charges. It then offered to waive these charges in full. Right Choice said this meant it offered 
Mr M £226.09 as a goodwill gesture. 
But I agree with our Investigator that this doesnt go far enough in the circumstances. When 
a business makes a mistake, as I think Right Choice has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
I can see that Mr M has now received a refund of £612.29. I can see that Right Choice made 
deductions for just the insurers time on risk and for breakdown cover. And I think it 
reasonably waived its own charges for set-up, cancellation and commission for the delay 
caused. And so I think this restores Mr Ms position, so Ill now consider the impact the 
service failing had on Mr M.
Mr M was without his money for two months. He was passed wrongly to a finance company 
when Right Choice should have dealt with the matter, causing avoidable confusion and 
inconvenience for Mr M in contacting it. He had to make numerous calls and send emails to 
Right Choice to press his case. And I think this caused Mr M avoidable trouble and upset 
over a matter of months. 
Our Investigator recommended that Right Choice should add interest to Mr Ms refund. I 
think thats fair and reasonable as Mr M was without his money for some time. In its final 
response to Mr Ms complaint, Right Choice illustrated that this would be £10.06 from the 
date of cancellation to the date of payment of the refund. As it has raised Mr Ms 
expectation, I think it should honour this amount.
Our Investigator also recommended that Right Choice should pay Mr M £100 compensation 
in addition to its goodwill gesture. Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable as the total 
amount of compensation would then be in keeping with our published guidance for service 
failings that have caused trouble and upset over several months. 
Putting things right
I require Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd to do the following:
1. Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service; and
2. Add interest to its refund of premium at the rate of 8% simple per annum, calculated as 
stated in the final response letter, as £10.06 from 26 July 2022 to 29 September 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Right 
Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman