DRN-3587258
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) settled a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B lost a hearing aid. Mr B and Mrs B arranged for the hearing aid to be replaced.  They 
also contacted Ageas to make a claim and provided the invoice for the replacement hearing 
aid. Ageas agreed to settle the claim and, as the hearing aid had already been replaced, 
offered a cash settlement for the amount it would have cost Ageas to replace the hearing 
aid. This was a lower amount than Mr B and Mrs B had paid to replace the hearing aid, so 
they complained to Ageas.
When Ageas replied to the complaint, it said it could have replaced the hearing aid. So, it 
said it had offered a cash settlement on the basis of what it would have paid to replace it.
So, Mr B and Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said Ageas had settled the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
As Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy said Ageas may repair, reinstate or replace the 
damaged property and that where it could repair or replace it through its preferred supplier 
but it agreed to pay a cash settlement that the payment will not exceed the amount we 
would have paid the preferred supplier. 
Mr B and Mrs B replaced the hearing aid shortly after it was lost, at a cost of £2,079. This 
meant that although Ageas could have replaced the hearing aid, it offered a cash settlement 
instead. This was for £1,916, minus the £50 excess. The settlement offered was for the 
amount it would have cost it to replace the hearing aid. Looking at the terms and conditions, 
I think this was reasonable and was how Ageas said it would settle claims.
Im aware that Mr B and Mrs B have said the amount offered was for an inferior hearing aid. 
Ive looked at the details of the hearing aid Ageas could have provided and I am satisfied 
that it was the same as the one Mrs B needed to replace. It is common for insurers to be 
able to replace items for less than a consumer is able to do so, even where those items are 
identical. So, I dont think it is unusual that the same hearing aid would have cost Ageas less 
than Mr B and Mrs B paid for it.
Mr B and Mrs B said the hearing aid needed to be replaced urgently because it was causing 
Mrs B issues, such as with her balance. Mr B and Mrs B were also concerned about whether 
the new hearing aid would have been compatible with Mrs Bs other hearing aid if it had 
been supplied by Ageas. I can understand that Mr B and Mrs B felt it was a priority to 
replace the hearing aid, particularly if it was affecting Mrs Bs health and wellbeing. Ive seen 
the details of Ageas hearing aid supplier and the service it provides. This included it being 
able to order replacement hearing aids the same day and it putting the policyholder in touch 
with an audiologist within 24 hours. It also described how it dealt with claims where only one 
hearing aid was lost to ensure that it could be paired. If something had gone wrong in that 
process, Ageas would have had to look at how to deal with it. But, I cant fairly ask Ageas to 
take action about something that didnt happen.
Mr B and Mrs B have also said that the hearing aids were insured for £2,750 each. However, 
this doesnt mean this was the amount Ageas would automatically pay. Ageas was still able 
to settle the claim for the actual cost to itself of replacing the hearing aid.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think Ageas dealt with the claim fairly. As a result, I 
dont uphold this complaint or require Ageas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman