DRN-3161035
The complaint
Mr A complained to HSBC UK Bank Plc when they reported missed payments on his loans 
to the credit reference agencies, despite a payment deferral having been agreed.
What happened
Mr A has two personal loans with HSBC.
Due to the financial impact of the Global Pandemic, Mr A contacted HSBC to request 
deferral of his repayments to the two loans. HSBC agreed to his request. They said the 
repayments to Loan 1 would be deferred between 9 April 2020 and 9 June 2020. They also 
agreed that the repayments to loan 2 would be deferred between 2 April 2020 and 2 July 
2020. HSBC confirmed this in writing to Mr A.
Mr A said HSBC said the missed repayments wouldnt appear on his credit file. But he said 
they appeared on his credit file in September. So, he contacted HSBC and, as a result, they 
removed the adverse information reported. Mr A then found that the missed repayments 
appeared on his credit file again in October. So, he contacted HSBC to complain.
Despite chasing HSBC about his complaint, Mr A didnt receive a final response from them. 
So, he referred matters to this service in December 2020.
While we investigated Mr As complaint, HSBC contacted this service. They confirmed the 
payment deferrals theyd agreed with Mr A. They also confirmed they shouldnt have 
appeared as a negative mark on his credit file.
HSBC said that as they hadnt responded to Mr As complaint and errors had been made 
with the payment holidays, they felt compensation of £100 would be appropriate. They also 
confirmed theyd submitted the correct instructions to remove any related adverse 
information from Mr As credit file.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As complaint. She agreed that HSBC had made a 
mistake here. But she thought that their offer of compensation was fair in all the 
circumstances. Mr A didnt agree. He said a subsequent loan application had been declined 
as a result of HSBCs mistake. He didnt think the compensation was enough, given what 
happened.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr As complaint has been passed to me in order to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
HSBC confirmed that Mr A requested deferral of his loan repayments and theyd agreed to 
this. Theyve also confirmed that the missed payments were reported on Mr As credit file 
when they shouldnt have been. So, the facts of this complaint are not disputed.
HSBC have confirmed theyve submitted the necessary requests to ensure any adverse 
information reported is removed from Mr As credit file. I believe thats the right thing to do 
here. Theyve also offered to pay compensation to Mr A of £100 to reflect their mistakes and 
delays in responding to his complaint.
Mr A wasnt happy with HSBCs offer. He believes the adverse data resulted in a subsequent 
loan application being declined. I do understand why Mr A might think this. Unfortunately, it 
isnt possible to conclude this wouldve definitely resulted in a lenders decision not to 
provide credit. Different lenders use many different sources of information when considering 
an application. An individuals credit history would only form one part of this. So, it wouldnt 
be possible to say that any decline would solely be because of the information recorded by 
HSBC here.
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Mr A did experience some inconvenience. But I think the amount 
offered feels fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate that Mr A doesnt agree. But it 
isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise HSBC for their mistakes. 
Any award is considered based upon the impact HSBCs mistake had upon Mr A, and I think 
this does that here.
I do appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed. But I think HSBCs offer here is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking them to increase the amount of compensation offered.
My final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
ensure any adverse information reported in relation to the repayments deferred under 
their agreement are removed from Mr As credit file with the credit reference 
agencies.
pay compensation to Mr A of £100 in line with their offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman