DRN-2639350
The complaint
Mr E complains that Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited offered him a loan but later 
refused it.
What happened
Mr E says he applied for a loan for £60,000 with Future Finance which was approved. He 
says he wanted assurances that he would get the loan as he would have to leave his family 
and home country to travel to the United Kingdom (UK) for his studies. Mr E says Future 
Finance later refused the loan and added conditions to later applications. He says he has 
been caused financial and other difficulties and may lose his right to remain in the UK. Mr E 
says he was offered the loan, and this was a binding contract.
Future Finance says Mr E applied for a loan in September 2019 and it conditionally 
approved it but told Mr E it was valid for 30 days and subject to further checks. It says it 
found out Mr E didnt reside in the UK which is a lending condition and says it cancelled the 
offer. Future Finance says Mr E made a new application and it approved a conditional offer 
of a £40,000 loan but was unable to make contact with Mr Es guarantor and so it correctly 
withdrew that offer. 
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Future Finance made a conditional loan offer in September 2019 and it was entitled 
to withdraw that when it became aware Mr E didnt comply with the loan conditions. He also 
thought Future Finance made that clear to Mr E. The investigator thought Future Finance 
made a further offer in 2020 but it was entitled to withdraw that offer when it was unable to 
contact the guarantor. Overall the investigator thought it up to Future Finance to decide if it 
wished to lend in circumstances where Mr E didnt meet its loan requirements.
Mr E doesnt accept that view and says he moved to the UK based on Future Finances loan 
offer and says it was for him to accept the offer not the other way around. He says the offer 
was placed on hold until he reached the UK and Future Finance agreed to that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Future Finance has acted fairly and 
hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my decision.
I am satisfied having looked at Future Finances records and the information Mr E has given 
us, that in September 2019 he was given a conditional loan offer of £60,000. Im also 
satisfied that Mr E would have had to have applied for the actual loan, which I find he did not 
within the required 30 days. And in any event, Im satisfied Future Finance made clear that 
Mr E was not eligible to apply as he wasnt resident in the UK. In those circumstances Im 
satisfied that there wasnt a contract and agreement between Mr E and Future Finance and 
that its up to Future Finance to decide with whom it enters a business relationship and if its 
lending conditions are met.
I think it was Mr Es decision to travel to the UK and that Future Finance had reasonably 
explained to him why it could not lend. I have not seen any evidence Mr E was given a 
guarantee by Future Finance that the loan offer would remain in place until he applied in the 
UK. And I have made clear that I find the conditional loan offer expired after 30 days in any 
event.
I can see Mr E applied for a loan in 2020 but that application couldnt proceed due to a 
problem with the guarantor. I dont think Future Finance acted unfairly or made a mistake in 
those circumstances and its entitled to decide if a loan offer is withdrawn when, as in this 
case, the guarantor couldnt be contacted.
Overall, Im satisfied that its up to Future Finance, when exercising its commercial 
judgement, to decide with whom it has a business relationship and that is not something, I 
can fairly interfere in. Im also satisfied Future Finance fairly explained to Mr E why it couldnt 
lend and that it was Mr Es decision to travel to the UK and that no guarantee had been 
given to him that his lending application would be approved when he applied in the UK.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman