DRN-3842099
The complaint
Ms B, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
Ms B says that Morses did not properly undertake affordability checks when granting the 
credit and did not pick up on signs of her over indebtedness.
What happened
Ms B was approved for four loans and here is a brief table of the loans approved.
Loan Start Date Capital 
AmountTerm in 
weeksRepayment 
amount each 
weekStill 
Live
1 01/12/2017 £250.00 33 £12.50 No
2 04/07/2018 £500.00 52 £17.50 No
3 04/06/2019 £500.00 52 £17.50 No
4 18/05/2020 £800.00 53 £28.00 Yes
Each loan appears to have been refinanced into the next. Loan 4 remains outstanding.
After Ms Bs representative had complained to Morses, it responded with its final response
letter (FRL) in which it explained why it did not uphold her complaint.
Ms B referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our adjudicators thought
that the pattern of lending was repetitive and by June 2019 when Ms B applied for loan 3
Morses ought to have realised and ceased lending.
Morses did not agree and gave a series of reasons as to why  all of which I have read.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. On 4 January 2023 I issued a 
provisional decision in which I gave reasons why I did not agree that Morses ought to have 
ceased lending at loan 3, and invited Ms B to send to us more evidence about her financial 
situation from June 2019 onwards (for loans 3 and 4). The reply date was 18 January 2023. 
Morses has not replied. Ms B has responded through her professional representative and I 
will address that later in the decision.
What follows is a duplicate of my provisional decision so that the parties have easy 
reference to it. Its in smaller type to differentiate it. 
My provisional decision dated 4 January 2023. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, 
the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. This was our adjudicators view from loan 3 in 
relation to Ms B.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender 
should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint due to lack of evidence about Ms Bs 
financial circumstances, and I have explained why below.
Ms B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision about this 
lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms B had with Morses. So, they are 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took. 
I am issuing a provisional decision to give Ms B time to send to me additional information (if she 
wishes to) about her financial circumstances for the period covering the loans she applied for in 
June 2019 onwards (loans 3 onwards). And I say this because of the information I have from Morses 
including screenshots in which Ms B had declared to the Morses agent that she paid no bills, lived 
with her parents and on another occasion (May 2020) that she worked in a particular capacity and 
had no indication that would be changing in the future.
In the absence of any information relating to Ms Bs income and expenditure then I have relied on the 
contemporaneous records made when she applied for the loans. Those records demonstrate that 
Ms B was able to afford the loan repayments.
I have reviewed the credit search results Morses carried out before approving loan one and in my 
view they did not reveal much to give Morses concern, considering it is a loan company which is used 
to lending to persons with some adverse information on their credit files.
Ms B had a relatively low total amount of debt  around £880  and although I did see that she had 
three defaults they were not for large sums and one was within 24 months and the other two were 
within 36 months of her first loan application. And so, these defaulted accounts were not recent and 
not likely to have raised a concern with Morses such that it needed to investigate further.Having said that, I am aware that Ms B refinanced her loans into the next one each time and that 
when she was applying for loan 4 in May 2020 it was for a lot more money - £800. Plus, it was in the 
middle of the National Covid 19 Pandemic and Ms Bs occupation was one which would or could have 
been seriously affected by that. Ms B was applying for £800 at loan 4. And it had been £500 at loan 3.
And so, I do think that by loan 4 Morses ought to have been carrying out some further checks before 
lending, but without any information from Ms B for me to be able to check what Morses may have 
seen had it carried out further checks, then I must use the evidence I have.
I do not think that when Ms B was living at home with parents and not paying bills that it was likely she 
was unable to afford the loans on the current declared income and expenditure figures I have been 
provided with. And I do not consider that Morses had evidence at loan 3 to be able to conclude that 
Ms B was unable to afford the repayments sustainably or that the repayments were causing her harm. 
I disagree with the adjudicator on that on current evidence. I plan not to uphold Ms Bs complaint on 
current evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses has not replied. Ms B has responded to say as follows: 
I so not agree with this as I lost my job when I had the last loan given me also being 
pressured by Morse's to constantly renew my loans even when I didn't want to
However, Ms B has not sent to us anything further to substantiate her claim or to 
demonstrate to me her financial situation from June 2019 as I suggested in my provisional 
decision. Ms B is represented and so advice on what to send was available to her. 
So, without anything new to review my provisional findings remain the same. I think that 
when Ms B was living at home with parents and not paying bills that it was likely she was 
able to afford the loans on the current declared income and expenditure figures I have been 
provided with. 
And I do not consider that Morses had evidence at loan 3 to be able to conclude that Ms B 
was unable to afford the repayments sustainably or that the repayments were causing her 
harm.
Ms B has raised that she felt pressured to take out the loans but I have no evidence on the 
information I have from Morses and no evidence from Ms B to be able to review that. So, 
I am not able to take that point further. 
I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
I not that the account is still open and unpaid  according to information provided to me for 
the complaint. I remind Morses to approach Miss B and her debt with consideration. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 Rachael Williams
Ombudsman