DRN-3185127
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy because Ageas Insurance Limited declined a cancellation claim made on 
his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P had the benefit of an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy, underwritten by Ageas 
(the policy). The policy covered the period 18 March 2020 to 17 March 2021. 
On 22 March 2020, Mr P was due to travel abroad to a country Ill refer to as F. He was due 
to return to the UK a week later.
The trip was cancelled on or around 16 March 2020 as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr P made a claim under the policy for the costs hed incurred in relation to his planned trip 
including his booked accommodation and transfers. 
Ageas declined the claim on the basis that the reason for the trip being cancelled wasnt 
listed as an insured event under the relevant section of the policy. Further, as Fs 
Government had effectively declared a lockdown prior to the trip being cancelled, Ageas 
also said that the policy excluded any cancellation claims as a result of prohibitive 
regulations. 
Unhappy, Mr P complained to Ageas and when it maintained its position, he brought a 
complaint to our Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P 
disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Mr P will be very disappointed with my decision, but 
Im satisfied Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably by declining his claim. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when reaching my provisional decision. 
Page 6 of the policy (under the heading: cancellation and curtailment) provides for Ageas to 
pay certain costs if a trip is cancelled due to one of the following listed, insured reasons:
the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative 
or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending 
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or 
fire;
the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your 
home; or
you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty. 
Im satisfied that Mr Ps trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons listed above. So, under 
the policy, his claim isnt covered. I know Mr P has said that he was subject to quarantine 
and I understand the point he seeks to make in this respect. But I disagree. At the date on 
which Mr Ps trip was cancelled (16 March 2020) he hadnt been quarantined. Although the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all travel to F shortly thereafter, 
Mr P was at liberty to leave his home and travel around the UK. The UK Government didnt 
introduce a lockdown until 23 March 2020.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr Ps insurance policy, but I dont think there 
was any cover in the circumstances he found himself in. For example, his departure hadnt 
been missed as defined by the missed departure section of the policy (at page 8 of the policy 
document).  
The policy also contains a number of general exclusions applicable to all sections of the 
policy  including the cancellation and curtailment section. These are set out at page 13 of 
the policy. 
General exclusion 15 says Ageas wont pay anything directly or indirectly caused by:
your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Travel Advice Unit of 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against all, or all but essential travel
On 17 March 2020, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised UK residents 
against all but essential travel abroad  including to F. And that advice was still in place on 
the date on which Mr P was due to start his trip.
So, its unlikely that even if Mr P was able to travel to F when hed intended, he wouldve 
been covered under the policy. As such, there may be some limited situations where I might 
think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict application 
of the policys terms and conditions. Particularly in circumstances when I didnt think an 
insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions 
relating to claims for changes in FCO advice.
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Ageas to do so here. 
Thats because Page 6 sets out what isnt covered under the cancellation and curtailment 
section of the policy. Clause 9 says the following isnt covered:
claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country
I think that exclusion is very relevant to the circumstances of this complaint. And Ill refer to it 
as the prohibitive regulations exclusion.Im satisfied that the cancellation of Mr Ps trip was as a result of Government action; namely 
the announcement of Fs Government that with effect of 16 March 2020, the country would 
effectively be placed in lockdown. Residents were only allowed to leave home for a limited 
number of essential reasons and by this date restaurants and non-essential shops and 
public places had been asked to close. 
So, not only is the reason why Mr Ps trip was cancelled not covered as a listed, insured 
event under the policy, I think the prohibitive regulations exclusion applies to the 
circumstances of Mr Ps claim.  Im therefore satisfied that Ageas has acted fairly and 
reasonably by declining his claim.
When communicating with him  particularly when responding to his complaint in October 
2020  Mr P says Ageas made some factual errors, including the date on which Mr P was 
due to depart the UK and his intended destination. Ive seen two versions of the final 
response letters dated 2 October 2020. One version does contain some factual errors and I 
appreciate why this mightve been frustrating for Mr P. And why such errors wouldve made 
him think that his complaint  and the reasons put forward by Ageas to decline the claim - 
hadnt been considered carefully. However, I dont think those errors ultimately impacted the 
decision made by Ageas to (fairly) decline his claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman