DRN-4212318
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain Mortgages Plc (MPLC) failed to give credit for overpayments 
theyd made on their mortgage when they provided a redemption figure. They say MPLCs 
delay in providing the correct figure meant the interest rate they had to pay on their new loan 
was higher than it would have been if theyd accepted an earlier mortgage offer.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W took out an interest only mortgage of around £180,000 with MPLC in 2007. 
The term ended in March 2017. Mrs W and Mr W received an offer of a new mortgage with 
another lender in 2022. They asked MPLC for a redemption figure. Mrs W and Mr W 
disputed the figure MPLC provided. They said MPLC hadnt given credit for overpayments 
theyd made, had charged the wrong amount of interest over several years and the balance 
they owed should have been lower.
MPLC reviewed things when Mrs W and Mr W complained. They said there was no evidence 
the balance was wrong and explained how the interest charged on the account had been 
calculated.
Since MPLC didnt uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint, they brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator explained the way in which interest was calculated 
had been set out in Mrs W and Mr Ws mortgage. And, considering the mortgage statements 
and explanations MPLC had provided, she thought the account was in line with 
expectations.
Mrs W and Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. They felt theyd provided evidence to 
show MPLC had made mistakes and we should ask them to recalculate their account. Since 
their complaint hadnt been resolved, it was passed to me to decide. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs W and Mr Ws strength of feeling about their complaint. But, based on what 
I know so far, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator.
The mortgage offer Mrs W and Mr W got in 2007 set out at section 11 that they could make 
lump sum payments of up to £5,000 during a 12-month period without having to pay an early 
repayment charge. It said the amount theyd owe and the interest theyd pay wouldnt be 
recalculated immediately following any lump sum over payment. It would be recalculated 
monthly on the 1st of each month.
The terms and conditions of Mrs W and Mr Ws mortgage said:
Interestshall accrue on a daily basis on the Secured Amounts from time to time and will 
be calculated by applying a daily rate of interest equal to the Rate of Interest on each such 
day to the amount of the Secured Amounts on such day and will be charged monthly in 
advance.
Put more simply, interest was applied each day to the balance of the mortgage outstanding 
at the beginning of the month. That meant
(1) the number of days for which interest was charged each month would vary depending on 
the number of days in the month. So, for example, in March 31 days interest would be 
charged, but in September 30 days interest would be charged;
(2) any payments Mrs W and Mr W made in a particular month wouldnt reduce the balance 
on which interest was charged for that month; and
(3) payments made in a particular month and the interest charged that month were all taken 
into account to work out the balance for the end of that month/beginning of the next.
The interest rate was variable and changed throughout the life of the mortgage.
Ive looked at examples Mrs W and Mr W have given of where they say MPLCs calculations 
are wrong  September 2017 and January 2021. Bearing in mind how the interest was 
worked out under the mortgage contract, and the interest rates that applied at the relevant 
times, I dont think MPLC have made a mistake. I think Mrs W and Mr Ws figures are 
different because theyve worked out the interest monthly, rather than daily. Ill explain:
At the beginning of September 2017, the balance of the account was £179,140.94. 
The interest rate was 3.1%. There were 30 days in the month. Interest of £456.44 
was charged for those 30 days. Although payments totalling £510 were made by   
Mrs W and Mr W, they werent taken into account in working out the interest since 
interest was charged on the balance at the beginning of the month. The amounts 
they paid, a fee of £37 and the interest charged, are reflected in the balance at the 
end of the month on which interest was then charged the following month.
MPLC have explained that interest accrued daily and was stored up until the last day 
of the month when it was debited. At the end of the month the balance was updated 
with any payments and fees received/charged in the month and the monthly interest 
charged. This then formed the starting balance for the following month. The 
calculation they carried out was as follows:
£179,140.94 (opening balance) - £510 (payments made) + £456.44 (interest 
charged) + £37 (letter of formal notice fee) = new balance of £179,124.38.At the beginning of January 2021, the balance of the account was £174,370.14. The 
interest rate was 2.95%. There were 31 days in the month. Interest of £436.88 was 
charged for those 31 days. Although payments totalling £526 were made by Mrs W 
and Mr W, they werent taken into account in working out the interest since interest 
was charged on the balance at the beginning of the month. Once again, the amounts 
they paid, and the interest charged, are reflected in the balance at the end of the 
month on which interest was then charged the following month.
MPLCs calculation was:
£174,370.14 (opening balance) - £526 (payments made) + £436.88 (interest 
charged) = new balance of £174,281.02.
Its not my role to audit Mrs W and Mr Ws account. Theyd need to ask a suitably qualified 
professional to do that. But based on how the mortgage worked and the explanations MPLC 
have provided, Im satisfied they applied payments and worked out interest correctly in the 
above examples.
I asked MPLC to clarify they hadnt overcharged interest in 2019. Two months interest was 
applied to Mrs W and Mr Ws account in April - for March and April  as interest hadnt been 
applied in March. From the explanation MPLC has provided, Im satisfied they didnt 
overcharge.
Generally, the statements show the payments Mrs W and Mr W made reduced their balance 
over the mortgage term. Considering the documents and explanations MPLC have provided, 
Im not persuaded MPLC have done anything wrong.
I think MPCL acted reasonably in explaining things to Mrs W and Mr W. They reviewed the 
account when Mrs W and Mr W raised their concerns and said there was no evidence theyd 
made any mistakes. In May 2022 they explained how interest was calculated on the balance 
of the mortgage on a daily basis depending on the interest rate at the time. And in June they 
confirmed payments had been applied correctly and had reduced the outstanding balance of 
the mortgage.
MPLC noted Mrs W and Mr W had a mortgage offer which was valid until June 2022 and 
gave them until the end of that month to repay the balance of their mortgage which had 
come to an end in 2017. I appreciate Mrs W and Mr W didnt accept MPLCs explanation. 
And I understand the amount they felt they were owed was significant for them. They blame 
delays in providing a correct redemption figure for their new mortgage not going through. But 
even if I thought MPLC had given the wrong figure, it wouldnt be fair to ask them to 
compensate Mrs W and Mr W for the additional interest they will have to pay over the term of 
their new mortgage.
Thats because Mrs W and Mr W were aware of MPLCs response to their complaint before 
their mortgage offer expired in June 2020. They could have accepted the offer, secured the 
rate and pursued their complaint at the same time. If their complaint had been upheld, any 
redress is likely to have taken account of any refund they were entitled to from MPLC. Whilst 
they might not have anticipated interest rates would go up as much or as quickly as they did, 
nor could MPLC. So, it wouldnt be fair to hold MPLC responsible for any additional interest 
Mrs W and Mr W might be liable for over the term of their new mortgage.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs W and Mr W will be disappointed, I dont 
intend to uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint or ask MPLC to do anything further.My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Developments
MPLC accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs W and Mr W disagreed with my findings and made comments in response, which Ill 
summarise:
1. MPLCs interest calculations were inaccurate.
2. Particular documents theyd provided explained how MPLC had ignored their 
overpayments and overcharged interest on their mortgage.
3. MPLCs suggestion they should engage their own accountant to check their figures 
was inappropriate.
4. MPLCs delay in providing a final redemption figure led to them paying interest on 
their new mortgage at a higher rate than they would have done.
5. The Financial Ombudsman Service should require MPLC to recalculate the amount 
of interest they overpaid, repay the excess they paid at redemption and pay 
compensation for stress and financial losses due to the cost of their new mortgage.
Ive considered Mrs W and Mr Ws comments and now set out my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs W and Mr W feel strongly about their complaint. And Im sorry to hear how 
stressful theyve found things. But none of the points theyve made or the documents theyve 
asked me to reconsider are new. Id reassure Mrs W and Mr W that I took all the information 
they submitted to the Financial Ombudsman Service into account in coming to my 
provisional decision. And Ive reviewed it to come to my final decision.
I appreciate Mrs W and Mr W think the interest calculation is straightforward. But the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage set out how interest was worked out. So, they need to be 
considered when looking at whether MPLC applied interest to the account correctly. 
I explained in my provisional decision how the interest was calculated under the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage. And having considered the examples Mrs W and Mr W gave, I 
said MPLC had worked out interest correctly in line with those terms and conditions, taking 
into account any overpayments Mrs W and Mr W made. I appreciate Mrs W and Mr W dont 
agree, but Im not persuaded to change my mind about that. 
Since MPLC checked Mrs W and Mr Ws account and let them know they hadnt made a 
mistake, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to suggest Mrs W and Mr W engage their 
own accountant to review things if they disagreed. And since I dont think MPLC have made 
a mistake either, I wont require them to carry out any further calculations. If Mrs W and      
Mr W remain unhappy they can seek professional advice, as I mentioned. 
Mrs W and Mr W knew MPLCs position before their new mortgage offer ran out. MPLCs 
actions didnt stop them from accepting a more favourable deal than the one they ended up 
with. So, it wouldnt be fair to require MPLC to compensate them for their additional costs of 
borrowing. And although I understand Mrs W and Mr W have found things stressful, it wouldnt be fair to ask MPLC to compensate them for that, since I dont think MPLC did 
anything wrong. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs W and Mr W will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman