DRN-3520558
The complaint
Miss R complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) trading as Audi Financial 
Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss R acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
Here, I can see that VWFS have accepted that the car wasnt supplied in a satisfactory 
condition. I dont think a reasonable person would expect any issues with a brand-new car 
so soon after it was supplied, and repairs to resolve the engine management issue have 
clearly failed on a couple of occasions as a software update hasnt been available.
The relevant legislation says that a business has one opportunity to fix a problem that is 
present when the car is supplied. If that repair is unsuccessful the business should then 
allow the consumer to reject the car.
VWFS gave Miss R two options. They explained that she could either wait for a repair and 
theyd give her £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, or she could 
reject and return the car and end her agreement with them. In that case they would also 
provide a pro-rata refund of her deposit but wouldnt provide any compensation.
When this service tells a business to approve rejection and end a hire agreement we would 
usually tell them to collect the car, provide a pro-rata refund of the deposit, make a payment 
for any lack of use and provide some compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Our investigator thought VWFSs offer to repair the car when a repair became available and 
to provide £500 compensation was reasonable. But she thought VWFS should also make 
that £500 compensation available if the car was rejected and the agreement ended. Id 
agree. I think Miss R has experienced some distress and inconvenience here. Shes had to 
return the car to the dealership on several occasions and would have been concerned that 
the engine management fault would reoccur. Ive also read her concerns that she may not 
have been insured with a known fault. I think that distress and inconvenience has been 
incurred regardless of whether she keeps the car or not.
Ive thought about whether £500 is enough to cover the distress, inconvenience and loss of 
use Miss R has experienced and I think it is. Whilst the car was returned to the garage on a 
number of occasions the job sheets show that courtesy vehicles were provided so I dont 
think the loss of use is excessive and in conjunction with the distress and inconvenience Ive 
already described I think £500 compensation is sufficient. 
Miss R has explained that the engine management light hasnt illuminated again, although a 
permanent fix hasnt been provided. Should further issues arise I would expect VWFS to 
consider them afresh and offer further redress.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to allow Miss R to either:
Reject the car and end the agreement. In which case they will need to provide a pro-
rata refund of the deposit and £500 compensation for the distress, inconvenience, 
and loss of use experienced, or:
Repair the car when a solution becomes available and pay Miss R £500 to 
compensate her for the distress, inconvenience, and loss of use experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman