DRN-3071223
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr D entered into a finance agreement in August 2016 for purchase of a new car. The car 
cost £27,449 and was sold with a three-year manufacturers warranty. Mr D said that he was 
going to use the car as a taxi and wanted a reliable car with a warranty.
In August 2018 there was a fault with the cars EGR system and a carbon clean was 
required.
Following a service of the car in July 2019 Mr D said he had to return to the dealership in 
August 2019 for a similar problem. 
In October 2019 Mr Ds car broke down and he drove it to the dealership for repair. It was 
discovered that the oil chain had snapped, and the engine had been starved of oil. Because 
Mr D had driven the car when the warning light was on, the engine had seized, and the car 
now needs a new engine. The manufacturer refused to pay for repairs to the car and it was 
considered to be abandoned as Mr D did not collect it from the dealership.
Santander have commenced legal proceedings for recovery of the car and for payment of 
the amount outstanding under the finance agreement.
Mr D says that the problems with the car were because of the EGR fault which is a 
manufacturing defect and so the car isnt of satisfactory quality. Mr D says that he should not 
be responsible for the repairs and they should be covered under warranty. Mr D says it isnt 
fair that Santander have taken legal proceedings against him when his complaint hasnt 
been dealt with by this service.
Our Investigator looked at Mr Ds complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
werent persuaded that the EGR fault was the reason for the breakdown in October 2019. 
They thought that this was a wear and tear fault as the car had covered over 72,000 miles 
before the engine had failed and had also covered a further 37,000 miles since the previous 
repair. They didnt think Santander had done anything wrong by claiming the outstanding 
balance on the agreement and they didnt think that they needed to do any more.
Mr D didnt agree and replied to say in summary that it was clear that the car had an inherent 
defect and that nobody was prepared to accept that this was the true position. Mr D said that 
he bought the car in good faith and expected problems such as this would be covered under 
the warranty. Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I want to assure Mr D that I have considered all of the information he has 
provided and looked at all of the documents. I know that Mr D relied on the car to earn his 
living and I can appreciate how devastating the breakdown and loss of use of the car has 
been.
Santander, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr D - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
that was paid for it.
Mr D bought a new car and so it follows that it can be reasonable to expect a new car to 
have fewer faults and require replacement of items much later than a used car. Satisfactory 
quality also covers durability which means that the components within the car must be 
durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also 
depend on a number of factors. Clearly, the amount of mileage that the car covers and the 
level of use of the car will impact on how long components will last. 
There was an issue with the car in August 2018 relating to the EGR system. The information 
received from the dealership suggests that there was some fault with the system that 
affected the unburnt oil particles being cleared and this was why the car required carbon 
cleaning.
By the time the car was inspected again in July 2018 there were faults relating to the Istop 
and the dealership suggested charging the battery overnight. When this didnt fix the 
problem, Mr D bought a new battery. 
At the point at which the car broke down in October 2019 it had covered over 72,000 miles. I 
can appreciate that Mr D drives the car as a taxi and so it will necessarily have a higher 
mileage and more wear and tear than one that isnt used for business. 
The dealership inspection showed that the oil pump chain had snapped and so the engine 
had been starved of oil. Because Mr D continued to drive it to the garage, this meant that the 
engine seized up. Theres clearly a fault with the oil pump chain but Ive seen no evidence to 
show that this fault was present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr D. Although 
there was a repair of the EGR system I have no evidence that this fault was related to the oil 
pump chain issue. I cant see that the battery replacement was related to the oil pump chain 
issue either. 
Mr D was able to use the car for a year and to drive more than 37,000 miles in it before the 
car has failed after the EGR repair. Although there have been repairs to the car and software 
updates, there isnt any evidence that the repairs were badly carried out or have not fixed the 
problems  so Im not persuaded that the issues the car has now were present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Mr D or that the car has an inherent manufacturing defect.
I understand the point Mr M is making with respect to the repairs and I do understand why 
he thinks the faults are related, but I think that it is unlikely that this is the cause of the oil 
pump chain issue. I think it is more likely that this is a wear and tear problem given the miles 
covered and the heavy use of the car. The engine has seized because Mr D drove it whilst 
the engine light was on and the engine was starved of oil and this has made the damage to 
the car worse. I appreciate why Mr D says he did this, but I cant say that the failure of the 
car was because of any manufacturing fault or defect.I sympathise with Mr D for the issues that hes had with the car  but Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him.
Regarding the warranty, this is not a matter that Santander are involved in and so Mr D will 
need to pursue his complaints with the warranty provider. I know that Mr D is upset that an 
extended warranty was refused because of his use of the car but this is not a financial 
product administered by Santander and so I cant comment on that any further.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Santander to pay for any repairs to the car or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint. 
Mr D is unhappy that Santander have issued legal proceedings to recover the balance of the 
money owed by Mr D under the finance agreement. Mr D says that Santander should not 
have done this whilst his complaint was being decided. I cant say that Santander has done 
anything wrong here either. The business is entitled to recover money due under the 
agreement and since I cant say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality then Mr D is still 
required to make the repayments.
I do know that my decision will be a disappointment to Mr D, but I am unable to uphold his 
complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman