DRN-1596668
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with his insurers Covea Insurance Plc (Covea), who declined his claim 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W registered a claim with Covea to report the theft of a number of items from his home. 
He said that he wasnt in the best of health and had particular vulnerabilities. He had carers 
who had worked for him and had stolen items. He said that he had reported the matter to his 
housing association and the police. 
Covea sent a loss adjuster to his home to interview him. He informed him that he was in ill 
health and because of this he had to use a carer to help him. He said that that carer had 
found 2 other carers and all 3 resided with him in his home.  He said that he noticed items 
missing from his home, but wasnt sure, due to the medication he had been on. He said that 
one day when he returned home he found the carers taking drugs and told them to leave. He 
later discovered that his items had been stolen.
 Covea assessed his claim and relied upon the exclusion clause on his policy which stated 
that:
 Theft or attempted theft will be excluded when loss or damage caused:  by you, your 
family, lodgers, guests, tenants or employees;
As a result it declined his claim. Mr W later reported that people had forced their way into his 
home, when questioned further by Covea, he became abusive and the call was ended. 
Covea later cancelled his policy.  
 Mr W was unhappy and brought the complaint to the service.
 Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and found that Covea had acted fairly. She said 
that Covea relied on the clause which it could do. She concluded that Covea had followed 
the correct procedures when dealing with his claim.  
 Mr W didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr W, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome
I have to assess what steps Covea took when dealing with Mr W and whether it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards him. I have been provided with the policy schedule from 
Covea.  In that document, there is an exclusion clause that details what isnt covered in the 
policy. Thefts that are caused by guests, as Mr W initially said, arent covered under the 
policy and Covea will decline the claim. This is what it did here.
I have next thought about Mr Ws account that he later made to Covea during a phone call. 
In it he said that 3 men had forced their way into his property whilst a social worker was 
present. When Covea attempted to obtain further details about the incident from Mr W (from 
the call recording) he wasnt able to provide it.  From what I can see this account was 
provided after Mr W had been told by Covea that his claim would be declined. So, in the 
absence of sufficient evidence that can show that there was forced entry; Covea applied the 
exclusion policy as the reason why it declined the claim. In those circumstances, I think 
Covea assessed Mr Ws claim fairly and reasonably and I can see why it wouldve declined 
the claim. 
Overall I think that Covea dealt with Mr Ws claim fairly and reasonably. I am afraid that there 
are no reasonable grounds on which I can ask Covea to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman