DRN-3419723
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. He says it would be fair for Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
to cover the costs of all the outstanding repairs as he wishes to keep the car.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr B acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement with Blue 
Motor. The car was around five years old with a mileage of 59,475.
When Mr B went to collect the car, he requested that he be able to take it for a test drive 
first. During this test drive Mr B experienced the traction control light flashing and also noted 
there was a bulge in one of the tyres. The dealership says it offered Mr B two options, these 
were to leave the car at the dealership while it replaced the tyre with one matching those 
already on the car or alternatively it would replace the tyre with an unmatched one and Mr B 
would need to then replace that one when he got back home to one that did match. The 
dealership says Mr B agreed for it to replace the tyre on the day with an unmatched one. 
Having taken the car, Mr B says he experienced further issues with the traction control light 
flashing and the car losing power within a short time. Mr B took the car to a manufacturer 
approved garage who inspected it.
The garage supplied a report and video which set out the work that was required on the car. 
This report said that there were the following issue; the anti-roll bar at the front of the vehicle 
needed replacing; there were defective brake pads at the front and rear; that the rear 
exhaust system needed replacing; that although the rear tyres were the same make they 
had different tread patterns and should be replaced with those that matched as this could 
affect the way the car drove; that the vehicle no longer conformed to production status and 
had been chip-tuned; that the traction control light flashed when cornering and straightening 
steering wheel again and when the light flashed power output was noticeably reduced. The 
report also stated that it was likely that the traction control issue is related to non-factory 
software in engine control unit  especially as no fault codes are logged and that there was 
a loud engine noise. Mr B was advised by the garage not to drive the car as the water pump 
pulley was faulty.
Mr B complained to Blue Motor about the condition of the car and it arranged for it to be 
independently inspected. This inspection took place around one month after the garage had 
provided its report to Mr B. The independent engineer concluded that although there was 
wearing of the brakes and to the antiroll bar and that there was a rattle from the exhaust, the 
car met the minimum MOT standards and was in a satisfactory condition for a car of its age 
and mileage. The engineer also noted that there were no warning lights illuminated on the 
dash and, following a scan of the ECU, no fault codes stored.
Mr B was unhappy at the findings of the independent engineer and decided to instruct his 
own independent engineer to inspect the car. This engineer reported that the car wasnt fault 
free as there was excessive engine noise coming from the engine bay area.  They said they 
suspected this was a bearing noise from one of the pulleys from either the alternator, 
compressor or the water pump but this would require further investigation.  The independent 
engineer said the front brakes were in the early stages of deterioration.
The manufacturer approved garage confirmed there was an issue with the cars alternator 
pulley. As Mr B needed to use the car and found that in its current state this wasnt possible, 
he arranged with the manufacturer approved garage to have this fault repaired so that the 
car was again driveable. Mr B paid £764.64 for this repair.
Mr B complained again to Blue Motor about the quality of the car and asked t by Blue Motor 
reject it. Blue Motor said that the health-check video had listed both advisories and items 
that had been shown as requiring immediate action, but this health-check had not been 
supported by the two independent engineers who had inspected the car. However, it 
accepted the fault with the alternator pulley had arisen within the first two months since 
inception of the agreement. It said it would reimburse Mr B the cost of this repair but as this 
had been now been repaired then it wouldnt agree to Mr B rejecting the car and cancelling 
the agreement.
Mr B was unhappy at Blue Motors response and complained to this service. Mr B said there 
were still outstanding issues with the car that needed to be repaired and that he didnt think 
Blue Motor had treated him fairly.
Our investigator said that looking at all the evidence he was satisfied that there were faults 
with the car and that these had either been present or developing at the point of supply of 
the car to Mr B. Our investigator said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mr B had asked that when considering a fair settlement that it was taken into consideration 
that he wished to keep the car but have the necessary repairs carried out by Blue Motor. He 
provided a quote from a manufacturer approved garage that listed the required works. This 
set out the total cost of fixing the car was £4,531.50.
However, Mr B also informed our investigator that hed been unaware when he acquired the 
car that it had been remapped (Chip-tuned). This had been discovered during the health-
check. Mr B said if he had known this, then he wouldnt have purchased the car. The 
remapping could have had an impact on the engines performance and caused increased 
wear and tear on various components. The health-check had reported this may be the cause 
of the issue with the traction control.
Our investigator said he thought that notwithstanding Mr Bs wish to keep the car and have 
the repairs undertaken, that a fair settlement for his complaint would be for him to now reject 
the car and unwind the agreement. He said there was no guarantee that the repairs set out 
in the invoice would fix the car.
Our investigator recommended that Blue Motor should collect the car, refund Mr Bs deposit 
and any monthly payments made under the agreement by him when he had been unable to 
use the car. He said Blue Motor should also reimburse 5% of the rentals for the periods Mr B 
had been able to use the car as its use had been affected by the faults. 
Our investigator said Blue Motor should also reimburse Mr B a total of £504.81 to cover the 
costs of the independent report he'd arranged and for a hire car he had needed for a period 
when the car wasnt driveable. He also said that it would be fair for it to pay Mr B a total of 
£150 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to deal with the 
faulty car.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view as to the settlement. He said he wanted to keep 
the car and that he would accept a payment of £3,000 from Blue Motor to resolve the matter. Blue Motor agreed with our investigator that the listed repairs wouldnt be a guarantee that 
the car would be fixed. It was concerned that issues with the car would be ongoing.
Mr B also asked that consideration be given for additional costs hed incurred in replacing 
the tyres, purchasing a two-year warranty and changing the plate to a private one. Our 
investigator said that the two independent reports had both agreed the tyres didnt require 
changing and the warranty wasnt part of the credit agreement so he wouldnt alter the 
amount he recommended was to be repaid.
Mr B, having reflected on the recommendation, said that he thought it would be fairer to be 
fully reimbursed what he had paid under the agreement if he was to return the car as he had 
incurred various costs. He also said that returning the car would cause him additional 
difficulties as he would need to source and replace the car which would be inconvenient and 
stressful. He thought it unlikely he would be able to replace the car with one matching its 
make, model and specification. He said he would rather the car was repaired, and he was 
able to keep it. 
Mr B later reported that since June the car became unusable again due to the deteriorating 
fault with the cars exhaust system and brakes. He said he has had to have some repairs 
carried out to the exhaust and brakes to continue to use the car.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think its disputed by Blue Motor that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality at its point 
of supply to Mr B. However, I dont think I can reasonably say that all the items set out in the 
quote provided by Mr B as to the outstanding issues that required repair had all been 
investigated and accepted by Blue Motor. This is because they werent all originally raised in 
Mr Bs complaint. Ive also seen that the two independent engineers disagreed with some of 
the faults listed in the earlier health-check, in particular that the tyres all needed replacing 
and it was said that the brakes were in the early stages of deterioration rather than needed 
urgent repair. But the issues of the traction system, the remapping and the front brakes were 
identified.
I also need to take into account that as the car is five years old and had a mileage of 59,475 
then some wear and tear to its components would be reasonably expected. This means 
issues with repair and maintenance would arise over time particularly to parts such as the 
brakes, tyres and the exhaust system which are all serviceable items. And these types of 
repairs wouldnt necessarily mean that Blue Motor would be responsible for the cost of fixing 
them.
The issue for me to resolve with this complaint is what would be a fair and reasonable 
settlement in the circumstances. Blue Motor says that it accepts the fairest resolution is for 
the car to be handed back and the agreement ended. Mr B says it would be fairer for Blue 
Motor to cover the cost of the repairs though he would accept a payment of £3,000 towards 
them or, if he is to return the car, for him to be reimbursed fully.
While I appreciate that returning the car will mean further inconvenience for Mr B, looking at 
the issues with the car I agree that the repairs listed are not a guarantee that the car will be 
fixed. I think to be fair to both parties that the car should now be rejected by Mr B and 
returned to Blue Motor with the agreement unwound. Im sorry that Mr B will consider that this places a bigger financial burden on him, but I think this matter needs to be settled with 
certainty for both parties. I cant reasonably say that if the repairs are undertaken Mr B cant 
later raise further matters with Blue Motor should he need to do so. It also might not be fair 
to Mr B to limit the repair costs paid by Blue Motor as its possible other issues may be 
uncovered during those repairs and the costs then increase.
Ive seen that due to Mr Bs current personal circumstances, which I understand may be 
temporary, he hasnt been able to secure a similar credit agreement. But although Im sorry 
Mr B may not be able to replace the car with something similar, I dont think thats something 
I can reasonably hold Blue Motor responsible for. So, I dont think I can fairly take that into 
account when deciding the best outcome for Mr Bs complaint.
Looking at all the circumstances I agree that the fairest solution is that the car is handed 
back, and the agreement ended with nothing further to pay.
As the agreement is to be ended then any deposit paid by Mr B should be reimbursed with 
interest. However, I disagree that Mr B should be reimbursed all the money he has paid 
under the agreement towards the car. That is because Mr B has been able to use the car 
although I accept there have been interruptions in that use and that its use has been 
affected by the faults. But I still think its fair that he pays for the usage he has had.
Ive seen Mr B was able to use the car for a month between July and August 2021, but then 
wasnt able to use it until the end of September 2021. Ive also seen there were periods the 
car couldnt be used from June 2022 though Mr B had some repairs carried out and I think 
its reasonable to say he has had use of the car to date. I think its fair to ask Blue Motor to 
reimburse Mr B for the payments made during the period from mid-August to end of 
September 2021 and also for the month of June 2022. 
Im not going to ask Blue Motor to reimburse all the repair costs Mr B has incurred from June 
2022 onwards as these relate to the brakes and exhaust and I cant be satisfied on the 
evidence Ive seen that some of these costs didnt arise from wear and tear. However, I 
accept the overall condition of the car has impacted on Mr Bs ability to use it so I think the 
repayment of the instalment for June 2022 would fairly reflect a period Mr B couldnt use the 
car during this year.
I also agree with our investigator that the issues with the car would have spoilt Mr Bs 
enjoyment of it. He says this is a model of car he had always wanted. To reflect this, I think 
reimbursement of 5% of the rentals paid by Mr B should be made by Blue Motor.
I also agree that Mr B should be reimbursed for arranging his own independent engineer to 
inspect the car and for the period he had to hire a car. Blue Motor should reimburse him the 
amount of £504.81. 
In regard to replacing the tyres Im afraid I disagree these should be reimbursed by Blue 
Motor. The evidence from the two independent inspections including the one arranged by Mr 
B does not support that the tyres needed to be changed at that time. Tyres as set out above 
are a serviceable item and so over time will become worn. Im satisfied on the evidence Ive 
seen that the tyres were suitably durable at the point of supply of the car to Mr B.
In regard to the warranty, this was not purchased via the credit agreement with Blue Motor 
and therefore I cant hold it liable for this cost now the agreement is being unwound. This 
would also apply to the payment made to change the number plate.
However, I accept that Mr B has suffered distress and inconvenience having to deal with the 
faulty car, arranging repairs and inspections and needing to hire a car. I think compensation is fair in these circumstances and Im asking Blue Motor to pay Mr B £150 to reflect the 
impact this has had on him.
So, for the reasons given Im upholding Mr Bs complaint, though I appreciate my decision 
that the car should be rejected, and the agreement ended without a full reimbursement of the 
money paid by Mr B, will be a disappointment. I think the settlement I have set out above is 
the fairest in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Im asking Blue Motor to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr B.
Refund Mr Bs deposit/part exchange contribution of £2,090 together with yearly 
interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund the instalment covering from mid-August until the end of September 2021 
and June 2022 to cover any loss of use. Interest is to be added to that amount at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Refund Mr B £504.81 for the additional expenses incurred in respect of the 
independent engineers report and hiring a car. Interest is to be added to that amount 
at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay £150 to Mr B as compensation for any distress or inconvenience thats been 
caused dealing with the faulty goods.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Bs complaint, however I have not agreed 
with his suggested resolution. As set out above Im asking Blue Motor Finance Ltd to do the 
following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr B.
Refund Mr Bs deposit/part exchange contribution of £2,090 together with yearly 
interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund the instalment covering from mid-August until the end of September 2021 
and June 2022 to cover any loss of use. Interest is to be added to that amount at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Refund Mr B £504.81 for the additional expenses incurred in respect of the 
independent engineers report and hiring a car. Interest is to be added to that amount 
at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay £150 to Mr B as compensation for any distress or inconvenience thats been 
caused dealing with the faulty goods.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman