DRN-3770061
The complaint
Mr R complains that PrePay Technologies Limited (trading as Prepay solutions) has refused 
to refund payments he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr R was on a trip abroad. On 30 September 2021 he was out for the evening with friends at 
a nightclub. Mr R says he made one payment for drinks at the club with his Prepay account, 
at around 9:30pm. Mr R says his card and phone were stolen or lost at some point during 
the evening, but that his phone was returned to him by someone who recognised him at 
around 5:30am the next day  1 October 2021. Mr R says he then discovered that someone 
had made a series of payments using his Prepay account, so at 12:30pm on 1 October 2021 
Mr R contacted Prepay to block his card.
Mr R raised a dispute about the payments with Prepay. He said he had not authorised or 
consented to the payments and asked for them to be refunded to him. Prepay declined his 
claim, it said that all the payments had been authorised using Apple Pay  on Mr Rs phone, 
so it considered that Mr R must have either authorised them himself or not kept his account 
details safe.
Mr R disagreed, and so he referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at 
what had happened, and felt that the most likely sequence of events was that Mr R had 
authorised the transactions, but that he had been misled about how much he was spending. 
And she felt that the transactions were unusual enough that Prepay should have done extra 
checks to ensure they were genuine payments. She felt that if Prepay had done this then 
some of the payments could have been prevented, so she asked Prepay to refund the third 
and fourth payments that were made, along with 8% interest. 
Prepay disagreed with her findings, it felt that there was no clear evidence to support that 
what the investigator was saying had actually happened. And in any case, as it felt Mr R had 
authorised the payments it did not believe that any payments would have been prevented if it 
had contacted him.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for review.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 22 September 2022, explaining why I 
did not intend to uphold it. Neither Mr R nor Prepay responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr R is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
So, the key question here is whether Prepay has acted fairly in concluding that Mr R did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks evidence that the payments in dispute were made using Apple 
Pay on Mr Rs phone. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable Prepay to hold Mr R liable. So I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr R consented to the payments being 
made.
Mr R says he used his phone to make a payment at around 9:30pm, the next payment  
which he says he did not make  was around 11:00pm. So the suggestion is that his phone 
and card  which were kept together  were taken at some point between 9:30 and 11:00. 
Mr R says he discovered his phone and card were missing at around 2:00am and then got 
his phone back at 5:30am the next day when someone found it in the club, recognised him 
from his screensaver, and then found him in the street to hand it back to him. So his card 
and phone were missing for at least six and a half hours, and Mr R was aware form 2am that 
his card was missing, but he doesnt seem to have taken any steps to block his card or 
report it missing until many hours later. These actions dont seem to be those of a man who 
has lost his card and phone in a foreign city. 
I also note that Mr R has said his phone was protected with face ID and a PIN, so in order 
for a third party to make the payments they would need to have known Mr Rs PIN. Mr R has 
said someone could have either guessed his PIN or seen him input it in the club. I think its 
very unlikely that someone would be able to guess Mr Rs PIN, and hes not pointed to any 
specific incident where he feels that his PIN could have been seen by anyone else, just that 
he thinks this might be what happened. I also note that Mr R has said he has Face ID on his 
phone, meaning he would be less likely to use his PIN to access his phone as it would 
automatically unlock. Overall, Im not convinced by Mr Rs explanation of what happened 
here, there is no clear point when his phone PIN could have been compromised, and his 
story as to how he came to be back in possession of his phone relies on a quite unlikely 
coincidence  that the one person in the club who found his phone recognised him from his 
screensaver, decided not to hand the phone into the club as lost property, and then 
happened to be in the street at the same time as Mr R to pass the phone back to him.
Our investigator suggested that while she felt Mr R did authorise the transactions, perhaps 
he had not been aware they were for such high amounts. However, that is not what Mr R 
has told us happened, so I dont think I can reasonably say this is the most likely version of 
events given that neither side has provided anything to suggest this is what happened.
So if I dont think its likely that Mr Rs phone was stolen and used by a third party, or that he 
was somehow tricked into making payments for higher amounts than he intended, the only 
remaining possibility is that he knowingly made these payments. And, on the balance of 
probabilities, I think that is the most likely of the scenarios that have been presented here.
As neither Mr R nor Prepay has made any further comments following my provisional 
decision my findings remain unchanged. Taking everything into account, I think that Prepay 
was reasonable to conclude that Mr R authorised these payments. It follows that I dont think 
it Prepay had contacted Mr R when the payments were made to ask if they were genuine 
then anything different would have happened, as it seems Mr R willingly and knowingly 
made these payments. As a result, I find that Prepay is entitled to hold him liable for them.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman