DRN-2724460
The complaint
Mrs L, on behalf of T, complains about the decision of American International Group UK 
Limited, trading as AIG UK, in relation to Ts claim for losses under the business interruption 
section of Ts insurance policy.  
What happened
T held an insurance policy with AIG UK. References in this decision to AIG UK include the 
actions of its agents. The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including for losses 
incurred as a result of business interruption. When Ts business had to close in line with the 
UK Governments measures to control the spread of COVID-19 Mrs L, on behalf of T, made 
a claim under this section of their policy.
AIG UK declined the claim. It said COVID-19 was not one of the diseases listed as being 
covered by the Notifiable Disease term, as per the endorsement relating to the policy. Mrs L 
complained, saying COVID-19 was a new disease and could not have been included in the 
list of covered diseases. And so, she felt the claim should be covered by the Notifiable 
Disease term. She referred Ts complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that the endorsement document had amended the wording of Ts 
policy to a specific list of illnesses. He concluded that, as COVID-19 was not included in this 
list, AIG UK had acted fairly and reasonably when declining Ts claim and in responding to 
the complaint. Mrs L remained unhappy and this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on T, I wont be upholding their complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the investigators.
I understand that T closed their business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of their business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover theyre looking to claim under is business 
interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy T took out.
The policy relevant to the claim and complaint provided cover from the end of February 2020 
to the end of February 2021  the 2020 Policy. 
The 2020 Policy included cover for business interruption. The standard cover provided by 
this section, as well as a number of the additional covers, is based on an interruption to the 
business of the insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate 
the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage 
to property. So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the additional 
covers that rely on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ts 
claim. And I think AIG UK acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ts claim under this 
area of cover. 
Mrs L has focussed her argument on the additional cover titled Notifiable Disease. So, this 
is what I will also focus this decision on.
The Notifiable Disease term as it exists in the policy booklet provides cover in the event of 
the occurrence of almost all human infectious or contagious diseases. However, the policy 
booklet also says:
The schedules and any endorsements are incorporated into and form part of this 
policy.
Having looked at the schedule for the 2020 Policy, it lists the endorsements relevant to the 
policy. This includes the:
100% PROOF POLICY CHANGES 2020 ENDORSEMENT 
(MRL/END37/100%PROOF/010120) 
So, it is clear that this endorsement document forms part of the contract of insurance and all 
these documents need to be read together. 
Looking in turn at this endorsement document, it says:
Notifiable Disease is deleted and replaced by:
4.0 Notifiable Disease
An outbreak of any Notifiable Disease occurring at the Premises or which is 
attributable to food or drink supplied From the Premises, or occurring within twenty 
five miles of the Premises, which by reason of the abnormal number of cases causes 
prospective guests to refrain from making bookings for accommodation, or gives 
legal grounds for guests to cancel bookings for accommodation already made.
And:
The definition for Notifiable Disease is deleted and replaced by:
Notifiable Disease
Illness sustained by any person resulting from any of the following: Acute 
Encephalitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, Erysipelas, 
Legionellosis, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, 
Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, 
Plague (bubonic, pneumonic, septicaemic), Poliomyelitis, Puerperal Fever, Rabies, 
Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, or Toxoplasmosis, Tuberculosis, Typhoid 
Fever, Typhus, Viral Haemorrhagic Fever, Viral Hepatitis (types A, B &C), Whooping 
Cough or Yellow Fever.
So, reading all of these documents together, I think it is the wording in the policy 
endorsement document that applies to Ts claim. Having considered this term and the definition in the endorsement, Im not persuaded this 
section of the policy would have provided T with cover. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the specified diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful of Mrs Ls comments that COVID-19 is a new disease 
and it might not have been possible for AIG UK to include it in the endorsement at the time it 
was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think AIG UK 
intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases  either all infectious or 
contagious disease or all those that might be added to a government defined, regularly 
updated list. AIG UK deliberately chose to define Notifiable Disease by reference to a static 
list of specified diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the diseases 
listed in the policy definition of Notifiable Disease in the endorsement. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I should also add that, at the time this policy renewed, 
COVID-19 was a known disease and in parts of the UK it had already been added to the 
Government list of notifiable diseases. I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as 
covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above. 
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ts claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied AIG UKs decision to decline the claim was 
in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means AIG UK should have met Ts claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mrs L, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L, on behalf of 
T, to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman