DRN-3614368
The complaint
Miss B complains that PSA Finance UK Limited wont pay for the car that was supplied to 
her under a conditional sale agreement to be repaired.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss B under a conditional sale agreement with PSA Finance 
that she signed in August 2020. The conditional sale agreement included a one year 
mechanical breakdown warranty. A manufacturers dealer identified an electrical failure of 
the forward emergency braking radar in June 2021 but the supplying dealer wouldnt pay for 
it to be replaced as it said that the warranty was for mechanical breakdowns, only covers 
named components and a diagnostic report would be required to see if the repair was 
covered. 
Miss B complained to PSA Finance but it said that the car was outside of its standard 
warranty period and there was no evidence that the fault occurred within the first six months. 
It said that a diagnostic report was required to determine whether the mechanical breakdown 
warranty would apply. Miss B wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He said that the claim 
was submitted when the policy was still valid and that the manufacturers dealer had advised 
that the failure was  a manufacturers defect, there was no signs of external damage at all. 
We advised the warranty company this at the time. He thought that it would be reasonable 
for Miss B to have the car repaired at no cost to her.
PSA Finance then agreed to pay for a diagnostic test of the car and a vehicle health check 
identified that a distance sensor/radar and calibration was required with an estimated cost of 
£1,225.70. PSA Finance said that the sensor is designed to function with enhanced safety 
features but is intended for assistance only and that the driver is responsible for the safe 
operation of the car. It said that Miss B has confirmed that shes still been able to use the 
car. It also said that the sensor is a delicate device placed externally on the front of the car 
and can be vulnerable to external factors over time. It said that the car was supplied in 
August 2020, the issue was identified about 10 months later and the car had done 91,000 
miles at point of sale. It questions whether there is sufficient proof that the car was faulty 
when supplied to make it liable for the cost of repair and its asked for this complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
PSA Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss B was about three years old, had been driven for 
91,033 miles and had a price of £12,292;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the conditional sale agreement shows that the cash price of the car was £12,292, 
that there was an advance payment of £5,000 and that Miss B agreed to make 59 
monthly payments of £149.49 and a final payment of £150.49 for the car to be 
supplied to her;
the dealers invoice for the car shows that the total price of £12,292 included £629 for 
a 12 month warranty and its order form that was signed by Miss B shows that she 
bought a one year mechanical breakdown warranty which would repair the car as a 
result of a mechanical or electrical breakdown;
a manufacturers dealer identified an electrical failure of the forward emergency 
braking radar in June 2021 and it says that the failure was  a manufacturers 
defect, there was no signs of external damage at all which it advised to the warranty 
company;
PSA Finance agreed to pay for a diagnostic test of the car and Miss B arranged a 
vehicle health check in June 2022 which identified that a distance sensor/radar and 
calibration was required with an estimated cost of £1,225.70;
I consider it to be clear from the evidence that theres a fault with the car and I 
consider it to be reasonable for Miss B to expect that the warranty would cover the 
repair of that fault;
I dont consider that PSA Finance or the supplying dealer have provided enough 
evidence to show that the warranty doesnt cover the fault with Miss Bs car; and
the cost or the warranty was included in the credit provided to Miss B by PSA 
Finance under the conditional sale agreement and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for it to arrange and pay for the fault with the car 
to be repaired.
Putting things right
PSA Finance has agreed to reimburse Miss B for the cost of the diagnostic report. I find that 
it would also be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for it to arrange and pay for the 
fault with the cars radar sensor to be repaired.
Miss B has been able to use the car so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require PSA Finance to refund to her any of the monthly payments that shes made 
for the car, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in response to her 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and I order PSA Finance Limited to arrange 
and pay for the fault with the car to be repaired.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman