DRN-2984042
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) refused to refund some of 
the premiums they paid for their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr M had a private medical insurance policy from 1 October 2019 to 30 September 
2020, insured by AXA. 
In March 2020 AXA redeployed some of its private health care facilities to the NHS to help 
during the Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs and Mr M said AXA should refund part of their policy 
premiums because the services available under the policy were substantially reduced.
AXA said Mrs and Mr Ms policy could still have provided benefits to them. But it would be 
reviewing the total value of claims paid over 2020 and 2021 and if the value of those fell 
compared to 2019 because of Covid-19 it would pass any refunds due back to members by 
March 2022. 
Mrs and Mr M complained to us. They said:
Due to the reduced medical services available during part of their policy year they 
didnt benefit fully under the insurance contract and AXA should refund part of their 
premiums to reflect the loss of value of the policy.
The premiums they paid for the policy reflected the risk, supply and cost of facilities 
for 1 October 2019 to 30 September 2020 when the effects of Covid-19 werent 
known so AXA shouldnt link any refund calculations to what might happen to claims 
in the future and it should refund them now.
To get a possible refund AXA required all policyholders in 2020 to continue with the 
policy. They were concerned they would have to reinsure with AXA until March 2022 
to get a possible refund.
During our investigation AXA told us that if a refund is due Mrs and Mr M will still get the 
refund even if they hadnt renewed the policy in October 2020, although the refund would be  
reduced. 
Our investigator thought AXA acted fairly and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs and Mr M disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. In summary they said:
when they took out the insurance contract they expected to have confidence that 
their medical problems were covered, which AXA couldnt provide, and it shouldnt 
matter that they didnt need to claim during the policy year
AXA was responsible for not providing medical services under the policy as that was 
the main part of the insurance contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr M contract 
with AXA as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance.
I dont uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons our investigator gave.
The terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr Ms policy say the policy is for one year and 
premiums must be paid for AXA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are 
intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. 
An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that 
time even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. 
AXA provided cover under Mrs and Mr Ms policy from 1 October 2019 to 30 September 
2020. Mrs and Mr M didnt need to claim under the policy during that time. But AXA is still 
entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of them making a claim during that 
time even though they didnt make a claim.
Even if Mrs and/or Mr M had needed to claim on the policy from March 2020 I dont think its 
correct to say the policy wouldnt have met their needs. AXA told its members it was still pre-
authorising eligible claims so Mrs and/or Ms M could have had private treatment where it 
was available (then or at a later date). Where it wasnt available AXA gave a package of 
enhanced benefits to help members get healthcare services and support.
Mrs and Mr M say it doesnt matter that they didnt need treatment under the policy, their 
point is the services available under the policy were reduced. But if they had needed to claim 
for treatment, covered under the policy, and AXA had been unable to provide the necessary 
private health care services that would have been a consideration in my decision. In this 
case as they didnt need to claim theres no evidence that they wouldn't have received the 
policy benefits if they had needed to. 
Mrs and Mr M believe AXA is liable for the medical services under the policy being reduced. 
But I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or 
medical services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for 
example, the lack of availability of certain medical professionals. AXA doesnt own or 
operate the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of insurer approved 
private facilities for use by the NHS was outside of AXAs control.
That requisitioning may have led to some medical services under the policy being reduced, 
but for the reasons Ive given above that doesnt mean AXA has to refund any premiums Mrs 
and Mr M paid. In their circumstances I dont think theres any reasonable basis for me to  
say AXA has to refund their premiums.
AXA says it intends to review the value of claims made in 2020 and 2021. If the combined 
value of claims has fallen compared to 2019 then any difference will be passed back to its 
members by way of a refund, with calculations verified by an independent auditor. Mrs and 
Mr M say AXAs spending in the future has nothing to do with the premiums they paid for 
their one year contract and it should refund them now. But for the reasons Ive given I dont 
think AXAs position is unfair and it wanting to assess the impact of the Covid-19 situation on 
their claims over a two year period isnt unreasonable.
AXA also says Mrs and Mr Ms policy will be included in its review even if they chose not to 
renew the policy in October 2020 but the share will be lower if the policy lapsed. AXA hasnt guaranteed Mrs and Mr M will be entitled to any refund in 2022, it will calculate possible 
refunds when it has the information it needs about claim values over the relevant period. 
As I dont uphold this complaint I wont be asking AXA to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman