DRN-3333552
The complaint
Miss P complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked her U account and have returned 
money paid into the account back to source. 
The U account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions.
What happened
In October 2020, U account blocked Miss Ps account while it carried out a review. Following 
its review U account decided to return the funds in the account to source, which amounted to 
just under £6,000. 
Miss P complained to our service. She said being without the money had made it difficult to 
make ends meet and provide for her family. She explained that since the money had been 
returned, shed been trying to trace the funds, but was having trouble locating the money 
due to the limited amount of information U account had provided.  
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ps complaint. He didnt think U account had acted 
unfairly when it returned the money to source and had done so in order to comply with its 
legal and regulatory obligations. The investigator provided Miss P with some information to 
help her trace the funds which hed obtained from U account. But this didnt cover all the 
payments that had been returned. 
Miss P disagreed. She said it wasnt fair that U account had sent money she says shed 
earned back to source. And this meant she had worked for free. Shes explained that she 
was running a business and providing goods to customers. She also said she had contacted 
the financial businesses to try and recover the funds but hadnt been successful as she 
didnt have enough information to identify where the money had gone. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that U account has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take 
certain actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict 
customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. The terms 
and conditions of Miss Ps account also permit U account to review an account. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for U account to block Miss Ps account. U account has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so U account were complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept,  U accounts actions upset 
Miss P and caused her inconvenience,  I cant say U account has treated her unfairly in 
taking the actions it did. 
I understand that Miss P wants U account to explain the reason it applied the block to her 
account in the first place. But U account doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a 
review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Miss P the reasons behind the 
account review and block, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving Miss P this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require 
it to do so.
U account sent the remaining balance of Miss Ps account back to source. I appreciate 
Miss P says shes entitled to the money that was in her account. And feels she has worked 
for nothing. But I also have to weigh this up against the information provided to me by U 
account.  And based on the information Ive seen I agree that this was the right course of 
action in the circumstances. Im also satisfied that U account were complying with their legal 
obligations when it returned the money to source. So, Im not going to direct U account to 
return the balance of Miss Ps account to her.  
Miss P says she has tried to recover the funds from the financial businesses but shes 
having difficulty as she has very limited information to go on. Shes said U account hasnt 
properly returned the funds in her account to the originator  another financial business, 
which I will refer to as B. The investigator has provided Miss P with some information to help 
recover the funds. But Miss P says she has still struggled to locate all the funds. U account 
hasnt received any returned funds or notice of any issues from the originator. Given U 
account says it returned Miss Ps funds in June 2021, Id have expected U account to have 
received some notification by now had that not been the case.
If as Miss Ps explained she was operating a business and providing goods to customers, I 
think its likely she would have a record and invoices of sales to her customers. So, I am 
surprised shes having so much trouble. If Miss P still thinks the funds havent been returned, 
she should take it up with B directly. 
In summary, its clearly caused Miss P inconvenience when she wasnt able to use her 
account. So, understandably shes upset. And I appreciate it has been a frustrating time for 
her and she says shes out of pocket. So, I realise she will be disappointed by my decision. 
But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I wont be telling 
U account to do anything else to resolve Miss Ps complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman