DRN-3138805
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has declined their request to extend the 
term of part of their mortgage. 
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs H took an interest only mortgage with HSBC. The borrowing was agreed 
over a term of 20 years. 
In 2006, Mr and Mrs H took a further advance with HSBC. This was again on an interest only 
basis. The further advance was taken over a term of 10 years, meaning it became repayable 
in 2016.
Mr and Mrs H did not repay the amount borrowed under the further advance in 2016 as 
scheduled. They raised a complaint with our service previously that HSBC had made an 
error when setting up the further advance as they wanted the terms of both parts of the 
mortgage to be the same.
In resolution of that previous complaint, in 2018, it was agreed that HSBC would consider an 
application to extend the term of the further advance so that its end date matched that of the 
main mortgage.
In late 2020 Mr and Mrs H applied to extend the term of their further advance. HSBC 
declined the application. So, Mr and Mrs H made a further complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She said she didnt think HSBCs 
decision to decline the application was unreasonable. One of the reasons it had done so was 
that Mr and Mrs H had provided information which indicated they could repay the 
outstanding balance. So, she didnt feel it was unfair that HSBC now required them to do so.
Mr and Mrs H asked for their complaint to be reviewed. They did not agree that HSBC had 
acted fairly and disagreed that they were in a position to repay the outstanding balance now.
As Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id start by saying that my decision is only looking at whether HSBC acted fairly by declining 
the recent application to extend the term of the further advance. I will not be reconsidering 
whether there was an error with the term when the further advance was initially agreed as 
this was reviewed as part of a previous complaint, and a resolution agreed.
Ive seen a copy of the loan offer when the further advance was agreed. The agreement 
made between Mr and Mrs H and HSBC was that, when the term of the borrowing expired in 
2016, the amount borrowed would be repaid in full. So as a starting point, in my view, it 
wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to expect the repayment to be made as agreed. 
HSBCs final response to Mr and Mrs H said that it had declined their application to extend 
the term of their further advance as it didnt meet its affordability criteria. Mr and Mrs H have 
argued this was unfair and that they have demonstrated that they are able to afford the 
repayments  as they have been making them since the lending was first agreed. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) previously carried out a Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). This led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments  including around affordability and repayment strategies for interest 
only mortgages  aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this which allow some of these 
new tests, particularly around affordability assessments, to be set aside in certain 
circumstances, if the change being requested to a mortgage was in the customers best 
interests. 
Its important to note, though, that these rules dont oblige lenders to make changes to 
mortgages or agree to lend. They merely say that changes dont have to be refused  if the 
criteria for setting aside the more stringent tests are met  on grounds of affordability.
Mr and Mrs Hs request to extend the term of their borrowing owed under the further 
advance would appear to fall into the category where HSBC could opt to set aside an 
affordability assessment. So, if the transaction was in their best interests, I think HSBC 
couldve set aside its assessment of affordability  the reason it told Mr and Mrs H that the 
application had been declined. 
Ive thought about whether it shouldve done so here and whether, as a result, the decision 
to decline the application was unfair.
I understand that Mr and Mrs H wanted to extend the term, so that it aligned to their main 
mortgage. But that doesnt necessarily mean it was in their best interests to do so. Extending 
the term wouldve brought with it significant additional cost  monthly contractual repayments 
for the length of the extended term. 
HSBC has also sent us information to show it was told during the application, and provided 
evidence by way of bank statements to confirm, that Mr and Mrs H had means to repay the 
outstanding borrowing, at the time they were applying to extend its term. Repaying the 
amount due under the original agreement wouldve avoided the additional cost of monthly 
interest payments being incurred. And it wouldve avoided the risk that the funds available to 
clear the borrowing now, would no longer be available at the end of the term.
Mr and Mrs H have disagreed that they had funds available. But HSBC has provided the 
information that was sent to it as part of the application. And I think its reasonable, based on 
what it was told and sent, that it concluded Mr and Mrs H could pay back the further 
advance, but preferred not to.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think it was necessarily in Mr and Mrs Hs best interests 
to extend the borrowing. While they may have preferred to, it wouldve led to a cost that they 
didnt necessarily have to incur. And it wouldve created the risk that their circumstances couldve changed which mayve left them unable to repay the further advance at the end of 
the extended term. So, I dont think HSBC necessarily did need to set aside its assessment 
of affordability here.
Im also conscious of the fact, as I stated earlier, Mr and Mrs H agreed when taking the 
lending to pay HSBC back the amount borrowed in 2016. And over four years had passed 
since that time before an application to extend the term was made. With HSBC allowing the 
balance to remain outstanding for that time, when I think it was reasonably entitled to 
demand repayment.
So, having considered everything both parties have provided, I dont think HSBC acted 
unreasonably by declining the request to extend the term of Mr and Mrs Hs further advance, 
based on the information available to it. And as a result, I dont intend to require it to do any 
more here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman