DRN-3604284
The complaint
Mr S complains that in April 2022 he made several telephone calls to Skipton Building 
Society to transfer an ISA from another bank to Skipton. He wants compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience.
What happened
On 6 April 2022, Mr S called Skipton to ask if he could use this years ISA allowance. He 
was told he could  but the funds would need to be in his new Skipton ISA account by 12 
April. 
He completed a Skipton ISA transfer form and asked for the whole amount, including 
interest, to be transferred from another bank (Bank B) to Skipton. Skipton then had to send 
the transfer request to Bank B. Over the next few days, Skipton told Mr S that Bank B had 
refused the transfer but on calling Bank B, Mr S discovered it had not yet received the 
transfer from Skipton. Mr S kept calling Skipton to help them progress the transfer. 
Eventually, the transfer went through, but was missing the interest payment. So Mr S again 
called Bank B and Skipton several times to sort out this final issue. Mr S said Skipton lied to 
him and misled him on several occasions. He wants compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Skipton said it had completed Mr Ss instructions and had requested the full amount to be 
transferred to Mr Ss new ISA account and that it had resubmitted the application when Bank 
Bs systems rejected it. Bank B also said it had made an accounting mistake by not 
transferring the interest. Skipton said it hadnt done anything wrong and rejected Mr Ss 
complaint.
Our investigator agreed that Skipton hadnt done anything wrong and rejected the complaint.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has asked only for compensation for his distress and inconvenience from 6 April 2022 
to 12 April in trying to progress the ISA transfer. I can only award this if I decide that Skipton 
has done something wrong.
I have looked at the ISA transfer form which Mr S completed for Skipton to start the transfer 
process. I can see that he cited his sort code and account number and asked for the whole 
amount to be transferred in. I also noted that Mr S was working in a short time limit set by 
Skipton, so I can understand a prompt and timely transfer was very important to him.
 
However, I do think that each time Mr S called Skipton for information, he was given a 
snapshot view of what was happening on his account at Skipton at the time he called. And I 
think this may not always reflect everything that is happening in and around the account  
particularly in any other banks records which he would have known about. So whilst I 
appreciate this was a frustrating time for Mr S, I dont have enough evidence to show 
Skipton lied to him or misled him intentionally.
 
Having seen the contact notes, it looks more likely that Mr S was given the information to 
hand which Skipton staff could see on its own records  even though it may not have been 
what Mr S was expecting to hear. So I do not think Skipton has done anything wrong here to 
lead to an award for Mr Ss distress and inconvenience.
Mr S suggests that Skipton had submitted the wrong account details  so he did check with 
them that the correct information had been used. On 7 April, he contacted Skipton with the 
roll number and from the evidence of the contact notes, it seems Skipton re-submitted the 
transfer application with the roll number following Mr Ss instructions the same day, rather 
than using the sort code and account number. So I do think Skipton was assisting Mr S and 
was using the helpful information he had given. I appreciate Mr S experienced some 
inconvenience in contacting Skipton, but in response I do think Skipton was trying to 
progress the transfer application for him. And overall, I dont consider this amounted to 
material distress and inconvenience.
I note also that Bank B told Mr S it had made an accounting mistake which meant the 
transfer did not include the interest. This meant Mr S had to make more telephone calls to 
transfer the interest to Skipton  which I appreciate must have been frustrating for him. 
However, taking everything that I have seen into account, I cannot see that Skipton has 
done anything wrong here. So it follows that I wont be asking Skipton to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman