DRN-3660777
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE only agreed to offer a proportionate 
settlement of a claim made under a travel insurance policy in respect of her husband, Mr B. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had the benefit of an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
Great Lakes (the policy). They travelled abroad in October 2021. Unfortunately, whilst 
away, Mr and Mrs B became seriously unwell, and both were hospitalised. 
They both received urgent medical care whilst abroad and were later repatriated, by air 
ambulance, to the UK. Very sadly, Mr B died after returning to the UK.
Great Lakes agreed to pay Mr Bs repatriation costs. But it only agreed to cover 84% of his 
medical costs. Thats because it says Mrs B didnt declare one of Mr Bs medical conditions 
when taking out the policy  so made a qualifying misrepresentation. If the condition had 
been declared, Great Lakes says it wouldve charged more for the policy.
Mrs B doesnt think thats fair. So, a complaint was brought to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He didnt think Great Lakes decision was fair 
and reasonable. So, he recommended it to put things right by reimbursing the outstanding 
16% of medical costs already paid together with interest. 
Great Lakes disagreed. So, the complaint has been referred to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so Ive taken into account The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (so in this case, Great Lakes) has to show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Great Lakes says, when taking out the policy and answering the medical questions, Mrs B  
on behalf of Mr B - failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. So, it 
only agreed to cover 84% of his claimed costs. 
I dont think Great Lakes position is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call recording from when Mrs B enquired about the policy.  Mrs B is asked 
a number of questions about her and Mr Bs medical conditions. The representative runs 
through a list of conditions Mr B was known to have. Mrs B explains that Mr B also 
experienced heart failure the year before. 
Shes also asked: In the last 2 years, excluding the conditions weve discussed, have either 
of you suffered from any other medical or psychological conditions which youve had 
treatment?. Mrs B responds: just the heart failure (in respect of Mr B). 
Mrs B is then asked whether theyve suffered from or received treatment or investigation, 
tests for heart attacks, angina, chest pain or any other heart condition? The 
representative also says: with that in mind, Im aware of the following: heart failure Mrs B 
says: no.
Shes then asked: any other medical condition or symptoms we havent discussed on this 
call?. Mrs B again replies: no. 
Mrs B is then asked specific questions about the heart failure declared for Mr B. Shes 
asked: is this heart failure connected with any form of cardiomyopathy? Mrs B replies: no. 
Great Lakes says that Mrs B shouldve answered yes to this question. Thats because the 
medical evidence reflects that Mr Bs heart failure was due to cardiomegaly  an enlarged 
heart. And thats a form of cardiomyopathy. However, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
say that Mrs B ought to have reasonably been aware of that. And Great Lakes has accepted 
that Mrs B might not have been aware.
The answer she provided to the specific question asked was factually correct  as supported 
by a statement from Mr Bs doctor. His heart failure wasnt due to cardiomegaly. If Great 
Lakes wanted to specifically know whether cardiomegaly played a part on Mr Bs heart 
failure, it was open to ask that question when discussing Mr Bs medical conditions. 
Ive also thought about whether Mrs B ought reasonably to have separately declared Mr Bs 
cardiomegaly when taking out the policy given the other questions asked of her  as 
summarised above  and that its listed in the medical notes as being an active problem from 
the middle of 2020; the same time as Mr B was diagnosed with heart failure. Mrs B declared 
Mr Bs heart failure. Without being asked additional, specific, questions about his heart 
failure, I dont think Mrs B made a misrepresentation. From her perspective, I can 
understand why the heart failure and cardiomegaly were, effectively, the same thing. And I 
think thats reasonable in the circumstances here. 
I understand Great Lakes point, that had it been aware of Mr Bs condition of cardiomegaly, 
it wouldve gone on to ask further question associated with that condition. And that this 
wouldve then led to the policy costing over £100 more than they paid for it. 
However, because I dont think Mrs B answered questions incorrectly  and so didnt make a 
misrepresentation - I dont need to go on to consider whether a qualifying misrepresentation 
was made, or whether had cardiomegaly been declared, the policy wouldve still been 
offered but at a higher premium. Thats because I dont think that aspect of CIDRA is 
relevant here. And having considered all the circumstances of this case, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to only pay 84% of Mr Bs medical costs  leaving the remainder 
to be paid on his behalf. Im satisfied that Mrs B correctly provided the information asked of 
her and so hasnt failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
Its also worth mentioning that Great Lakes only paid 97% of Mrs Bs medical costs because 
it said shed failed to answer a medical question correctly about herself. That complaint 
hadnt been raised by Mrs B to investigate. However, Great Lakes now accepts that it 
shouldnt have made that deduction and has agreed to reimburse Mrs B for the shortfall of 
3%. My decision hasnt dealt with that issue. 
Mr and Mrs Bs daughter  who is representing Mrs B in this complaint  took out a loan to 
cover the cost of Mr Bs medical costs as Mr and Mrs B couldnt afford this. I understand the 
loan amount is more than the shortfall in Mr Bs medical costs as it was taken out to also 
cover the shortfall in Mrs Bs medical costs and travel costs for Mr and Mrs Bs daughter to 
fly to and from the country Mr and Mrs B were repatriated from to see them. 
Im satisfied from whats been said that Mrs B intends to pay her daughter back from any 
money received from Great Lakes in respect of the shortfall in Mr Bs medical costs. The 
duration of the loan is 60 months and the date of the first loan repayment was January 2022. 
The interest rate is 2.8% per annum (fixed).
Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay Mrs B interest at this rate for 
the duration of the loan in respect of the balance of Mr Bs medical costs, as a lump sum 
payment. 
I appreciate that Mrs Bs daughter says shes experienced distress and inconvenience but as 
she isnt party to the contact of insurance Mr and Mrs B had with Great Lakes, I dont have 
any power to award her any compensation as she isnt an eligible complainant here.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which our service notifies Great Lakes that this final 
decision has been accepted by Mrs B, I direct Great Lakes to pay Mrs B:
- the 16% shortfall in respect of Mr Bs medical costs; and
- interest at the rate of 2.8% for the duration of the loan in respect of the shortfall in Mr 
Bs medical costs only.
If Great Lakes considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest paid, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this if asked for one. That way tax from HM Revenue & Customs, can be 
reclaimed if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-JohnsonOmbudsman