DRN-3873881
The complaint
The estate of Ms L (the estate) complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited did not action the 
closure request they received multiple times.
What happened
The estate says that Ms Ls card account could be no longer used to receive pension 
payments, and it needed to be transferred to a bank account. Ms L filled in the form to 
transfer the funds. And her Power of Attorney (POA) had also filled in several forms and sent 
identification to J.P. Morgan. The estate says J.P. Morgan would either send a letter to state 
they had made an error or ask for another form to be filled in. The estate believes J.P. 
Morgan already have the required information and they should have already carried out the 
closure and the transfer of the funds. The POA made a complaint to J.P. Morgan. And then 
they brought the complaint to our service.
J.P. Morgan said they sent the POA a letter on 25 January 2022 to confirm they were in the 
process of closing the account and transferring the balance to the nominated account on the 
third party closure form. The POA confirmed to us on 8 March 2022 that this had happened, 
but Ms L still wanted us to look into her complaint as it took J.P. Morgan many months to 
close the account.
Our investigator did not uphold the estates complaint. He said J.P. Morgan were unable to 
complete the transfer as either the forms were incorrectly completed, or the relevant 
identification was not submitted. He said the last communication between J.P. Morgan and 
the POA was on 27 September 2022, advising further identification was required, as only a 
driving licence had been sent, which was clarified in a phone call on 5 October 2021. But 
there was no further correspondence until the funds were transferred in January 2022, when 
J.P. Morgan made an exception to their process when they received an information request 
from our service and they transferred the funds on 26 January 2022. 
The estate asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They made a number of 
points. In summary, they said identification and the POA documents had been sent years 
ago, which is why they had been able to make withdrawals as necessary over the years with 
just letters. They said identification was sent again for the purpose of the end of the account 
and the form contained no errors. The estate said J.P. Morgan sent the funds with no further 
information provided, just because they were contacted by our service, which proves they 
had the information, as it would not be possible to action this otherwise. The estate also 
mentioned that J.P. Morgan had previously rejected Ms Ls form she completed as her 
signature was a bit shaky due to her age.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I wish to pass my condolences to the estate. The estate has made a number of 
points to this service and Ive considered and read everything theyve said and sent us. But, 
in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the crux of 
their complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to the estate that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to 
run their security procedures - such as what identification they request to action certain 
transactions and when to use an exceptions process. It would be the role of the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct J.P. Morgan to make 
changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal 
dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed their customer.
Ive considered what the estate has said about Ms Ls signature being shaky because of her 
age. But while I have sympathy for the reasons for the signature being as it was, I cant say 
J.P. Morgan did anything wrong by rejecting the form if they deemed the signature didnt 
match their records. I say this as they would have a duty of care to ensure the request was 
genuine before authorising this. If they accepted a signature which they didnt deem as 
similar, then this couldve potentially left Ms Ls account open to fraud. And while in this 
instance it was a genuine request, J.P. Morgan did not know this based on the signature and 
this is why they did not accept her form.
Ive listened to a call on 31 July 2021, where the POA rings J.P. Morgan. The call handler 
confirms that the form was not accepted as the signature didnt match. But he said that as he 
had POA then he would send the POA the third party closure form. The call handler tells the 
POA that so all you need to do is fill that form in. with the two forms of your ID that 
we ask for or you send it to us through the post with photocopies of those pieces of ID. The 
POA explains this would be the third time the form has been completed and the call handler 
confirms to the POA that the POA had signed the wrong form (not the third party closure 
form) and Ms Ls signature didnt match their records.
So here, Im satisfied that the first attempt by Ms L was unsuccessful due to J.P. Morgan 
deeming the signature didnt match and when the POA signed the same form on the second 
attempt, this was the wrong form that he signed  as the call handler confirmed that it wasnt 
the third party form that the POA signed and thats why it was rejected. 
Ive had a look at the third party closure form and the requirements it asks for in order for the 
closure to be successful. There is a section of the form which says Proof of identity (not 
applicable to solicitors and legal firms). It then says You will need to provide an original of 
one of the following documents as proof of ID: Valid passport, birth certificate, full driving 
licence, marriage certificate, credit/debit card. The form then goes on to say You must also 
provide an original of one of the following documents as proof of address: 
Notification/invitation to claim letter from a government department, full driving licence 
(unless already used as proof of ID),council rent document/tenancy agreement (less than 
three months old), council tax demand (current year), utility bill (less than three months old).
So Im satisfied that the third party closure form was clear that the POA would need two 
forms of identification to close the account for Ms L. Looking at the information the POA sent 
J.P. Morgan, it was only his driving licence that he sent them. While a driving licence is on 
both lists, he would be unable to use the driving licence for address identification with the 
form saying unless already used as proof of ID  which it had been. The call handler on the 
31 July did say to the POA that he needed to have two forms of identification, so when the 
POA sent the forms with only one form of identification, then J.P. Morgan made no error in 
rejecting the account closure form.Ive also listened to a call the POA made to J.P. Morgan on 18 August. The call handler 
explains to the POA that he hasnt signed and dated the form. Ive looked at the form the 
POA completed and it was not signed or dated by the POA in the signature section. So Im 
not persuaded J.P. Morgan were unreasonable for rejecting this form. The call handler 
sends another third party closure form for the POA to complete. 
Ive considered what the estate has said about them sending identification and the POA 
document years ago. But J.P. Morgan has different requirements for different processes. 
The third party closure form was clear that there would need to be two forms of identification 
needed, so when they had not received this with an accurately completed form, J.P. Morgan 
rejected the form. Im not persuaded that just because J.P Morgan made an exception to 
their process by releasing the funds when our service became involved proves they had the 
information already.
I say this because the forms were either incorrectly completed or only had one form of 
identification attached with them. The requirement for two forms of identification was 
reiterated on a call the POA had on 5 October 2021. So I cant say that J.P. Morgan did 
anything wrong here by rejecting the forms when they did not meet their requirements. But 
Im pleased to see that they did make an exception and they did release the funds, even if 
this was later than the estate expected them to. Im satisfied that had the third party closure 
form been completed accurately and with two forms of identification originally, then it would 
have been actioned when J.P. Morgan received the request. So it follows I dont require J.P. 
Morgan to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms L 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman