DRN-3781463
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs Ts complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) trading as Birmingham 
Midshires relates to an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) which was triggered when the 
mortgage they had was redeemed two months earlier than expected by solicitors acting on 
their behalf.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs T had a fixed rate mortgage with BOS and as that product was coming to an 
end they made arrangements through a mortgage broker for a new mortgage with NatWest. 
As part of those arrangements Mr S and Mrs T say that solicitors were appointed to act on 
their and NatWests behalf. I shall refer to the solicitors as NWS for ease of reference.
The mortgage was due to be redeemed on 31 August, but Mr S and Mrs T say NWS actually 
redeemed the mortgage two months early, thus triggering the ERC attached to their 
mortgage. The amount of the ERC was over £8,000.
Mr S and Mrs T feel that BOS have been unfair in charging the ERC because they have (a) 
offered to return the funds to BOS,  (b) agreed that BOS can keep their charge on the 
property and (c) to recompense BOS for any loss of interest. 
BOS said it hadnt made any errors, but it did offer to reverse the mortgage redemption 
provided that NWS or BOS solicitors were instructed to do so, and that NWS bore the costs 
of so doing. It confirmed that Mr S and Mrs T hadnt agreed to this. 
Mr S and Mrs T were unhappy with BOS final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that BOS hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr S and Mrs T didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
There are certain agreed facts to this complaint. The first is that Mr S and Mrs T had a 
mortgage with BOS attached to which was an ERC. Mr S and Mrs T have not disputed that. 
Neither have they disputed the calculation of the ERC, only that the application of it, is in 
their view, unfair and unreasonable. Secondly, the mortgage was redeemed early and 
triggered the ERC. That was not Mr S and Mrs Ts fault, but equally it wasnt BOS either. 
Finally, it was NWS who redeemed the mortgage early, not BOS.
It follows that BOS cannot be at fault for redeeming the mortgage early, since it was not the 
party who actioned it. Flowing from that, it follows that the terms and conditions which 
governed Mr S and Mrs T mortgage apply and as the mortgage was, as a fact, redeemed 
early, the ERC becomes payable. 
I can understand why Mr S and Mrs T feel that BOS, in insisting on compliance with the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage, are being unfair, but in my view they are not. What 
they are doing is adhering to the agreement it struck with Mr S and Mrs T, and that is fair 
because BOS are only doing what was agreed they could do. 
Beyond that I also note BOS did offer a solution to Mr S and Mrs T, albeit not bound to do 
so, but they have not taken that offer up. This is further evidence of BOS acting fairly.
So, although Mr S and Mrs T will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say BOS 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman