DRN-2630870
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Tradex Insurance Company Limiteds decision not to meet a 
claim made under his commercial motor fleet insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019 Tradex received a claim from a third party about an incident. Tradex 
contacted Mr A. In October 2019 Mr A told Tradex neither he nor his son as a named driver, 
was involved in any incident in September 2019. Tradex said it may want to inspect Mr As 
car. Mr A said his car was in a garage. He later told Tradex hed sold it the following week.
In April 2020 Mr A told Tradex again that he wasnt involved in any accident in September 
2019. He said hed broken down and a third party had come close to his car. But Mr A said 
there was no contact with his car. 
Tradex received a claim from the third party for personal injury. So it instructed an 
investigator to interview Mr A. In October 2020 Mr A told an investigator that he had been in 
in an incident with a third party in September 2019. He said there was light scratch damage 
to his car. He said he didnt check the other drivers car. 
Tradex said it would deal with the third party claim under its obligations under the Road 
Traffic Act. But it would look to recover those costs from Mr A as it wouldnt provide him with 
indemnity. It said hed provided false and misleading statements. 
Mr A complained to Tradex. But it didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr A asked us to look at 
his complaint. He wants Tradex to cover the third partys claim.
Our investigator thought Tradexs decision was fair and in line with the policy. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said hes paid for insurance for years and believes Tradex should 
cover the claim.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tradex says under the Fraud section of its policy that if Mr A provides a statement or claims 
information which is deliberately false, mispresented or withheld, it can decide to do a 
number of things which include the following:
Not pay the claim
Seek recovery of the costs of the claim from Mr A
Void the policy and;
Keep the premium paid.
Mr A hasnt provided any details to show why he believes Tradexs decision is unfair. So 
based on the accounts he gave Tradex by phone, email and to their investigator, I think 
Tradexs decision not to indemnify Mr A and seek to recover the claim costs from him are fair 
and in line with the policy. I think its clear from the evidence that Mr A provided inconsistent 
accounts to Tradex in October 2019 and April 2020 as he said there was no collision, when 
there was. And so I think Tradexs decision to rely on the policy conditions mentioned was 
fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed. But this means Im not upholding Mr As 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman