DRN-2722339
The complaint
Mr H complains that Coventry Building Society has unfairly denied him access to a better 
interest rate on his ISA. 
What happened
Mr H and his partner both have cash ISAs with Coventry. When his partners fixed-rate ISA 
matured, they were offered the option of fixing their savings again at an attractive rate of 
interest. 
Mr H wanted to benefit from the same interest rate his partner was offered. But Coventry told 
him it was only available to customers with maturing fixed-rate ISAs. As Mr H didnt have a 
maturing fixed-rate ISA, the building society explained he wasnt eligible for the same 
interest rate his partner was. 
Mr H complained. He said Coventry should treat all of its customers fairly and equally, and 
this would mean giving him the same savings rate his partner had. The building society 
rejected his complaint, so he referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint, but didnt uphold it. He didnt feel Coventry 
had treated Mr H unfairly. As Mr H did not agree, the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations require Coventry to treat its customers fairly. And because of this, I think its 
reasonable to expect the building society would give its customers an equal opportunity to 
benefit from its savings rates. If I felt that Mr H had been denied access to a product that he 
ought reasonably to have been eligible for, then I may conclude Coventry had treated him 
unfairly and ought to put things right. 
Mr H argues Coventrys treating him and his partner differently from one another. He feels 
that because his partner is eligible for an offer that isnt open to him, this means hes not 
received fair or equal treatment. 
But this argument seems to presuppose that Mr H and his partners circumstances were 
identical, which they were not. 
Coventry has explained it offered Mr Hs partner the option to fix their savings at a particular 
rate because their savings were maturing from an existing fixed-rate ISA. From the evidence 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that if Mr H had a fixed-rate ISA of his own that was maturing at the 
time in question, he to wouldve been offered the option to fix his savings at the rate offered 
to his partner. 
But Mr H didnt have a maturing fixed-rate ISA, which wouldve made him eligible for the rate 
he wanted. The ISA he did have worked quite differently from his partners. And the building 
society is within its rights to decide what the eligibility criteria for each of its products is, 
mindful of what regulations and the law require. 
Theres no rule which prevents Coventry from offering an interest rate to a specific group of 
its customers in the way its done here. Doing so is a matter for Coventrys commercial 
judgement, and not something our service would interfere with. So its not unfair of Coventry 
to have prevented Mr H from accessing the interest rate he wanted. He didnt meet the 
eligibility criteria Coventry had set for that particular account.  
In his complaint, Mr H has made much of a communication he received from Coventry 
several years ago. In it, the building society said: 
I can confirm savings accounts at the Coventry are given set interest rates for all of 
our members at the society. As we focus on treating our members fairly and equally, 
the interest rates we offer on our products are the same for all members
Mr H argues theres a conflict between this statement and him not having access to the 
same rate that his partner received. But I dont believe there is. Coventry has confirmed the 
rate Mr H wanted to receive was the same for all customers with a maturing fixed-rate ISA. 
And like all customers without a maturing fixed-rate ISA, Mr H wasnt eligible to receive it. 
Theres nothing in this statement which commits Coventry to making all customers eligible 
for all products. 
More recently, Mr H has told us the building society has shifted its policy on who can receive 
its interest rates. But if this is indeed the case, it doesnt mean that Coventrys previous 
stance was incorrect. Because having considered his complaint carefully, Im satisfied that 
Mr H has benefitted from fair and equal access to the same savings rates as any other 
customer in his specific circumstances. If hed been eligible for the interest rate he wanted, 
the evidence Ive seen persuades me that he wouldve had fair and equal access to it. 
Therefore I find that Coventry has treated Mr H fairly, and I do not uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman