DRN-3026848
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to carry out his instructions in relation 
to a new debit card. And he says their systems arent fit for purpose.
What happened
Mr T tried to use his Nationwide debit card to make a payment to a postal service, but it 
didnt go through. He was told this was because the address hed given didnt correspond 
with the address his card was linked to.
Mr T didnt think that was right and spoke to Nationwide about this on 26 April 2021. They 
confirmed there was no problem with his card, and that the postal company had reversed the 
payment.
During the call Nationwide also explained that there was a new card requested because, by 
chance, the current one was due to expire shortly. Mr T expressed concerns about 
widespread fraud in relation to the postal service. And he asked if he could collect the new 
card from a branch. Nationwide said they couldnt arrange that, but they could stop the card 
if he wanted them to. And a new card could be requested at a later date.
Mr T asked for that to happen so Nationwide put a stop on his card by recording it as lost.
Mr T questioned this because he said it hadnt been lost, so Nationwide explained that was 
just the way they had to record it  to put the stop on it. But the card had already been 
issued to Mr T, so it was still sent, the stop was only to ensure it couldnt be used. And 
because the card had been logged as being lost, a second new card was then ordered to 
replace it.
Mr T was unhappy with that and complained. Nationwide apologised, explained what had 
happened, and paid Mr T £50 compensation.
Mr T wasnt happy with that, he still had concerns that there may be widespread fraud, and 
now he feels Nationwides systems arent fit  and could be exploited by criminals.
An investigator here looked into the matter, they felt Nationwide had treated Mr T fairly by 
paying him compensation for their mistake. Mr T didnt agree, he thinks further investigation 
needs to be carried out to get to the bottom of this.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr T has raised some very serious concerns about Nationwide and about the 
postal company. I can understand why he would be worried about fraud, especially when 
things dont happen as they should.
But we cant investigate the postal company as part of this complaint, and theres only so 
much we can do in respect of Nationwide. Having reviewed the matter I am satisfied that an 
error has occurred, and it seems most likely this was a human error in Nationwide not acting 
out what had been agreed. They shouldnt have just put a stop on the new card, but also 
made sure that a second new card wasnt issued. Thats what I think went wrong here.
This is unfortunate and I can appreciate why Mr T might not be satisfied with this as an 
explanation, and why he thinks there may be flaws in Nationwides software. We dont have 
the facility to interrogate or test Nationwides computer systems. Although they are required 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulator) to provide an appropriate degree 
of protection to their customers.
Mr T may be pleased to hear that one of the regulators aims is to protect consumers from 
the harm that can be caused by bad conduct in the financial services industry. And that they 
supervise how businesses work, and can take action against those that dont meet their 
standards when carrying out the activities they regulate.
Despite that, unfortunately things can and do still go wrong. So, its important when that 
happens, that businesses put them right. In apologising to Mr T and paying him £50, I think 
Nationwide has done enough to put things right already. So, while I appreciate their actions 
caused him distress, I think the level of compensation is appropriate.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman