DRN-3088972
The complaint
Mr R has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) unfairly 
declined a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R contacted AA to make a claim for storm damage. A few months before, Mr R had 
noticed cracking to the render on the gable end of his house. An electricity cable attached to 
a bracket was also whipping around. Mr R said the bracket had moved and he thought this 
had caused the render to crack. This allowed water to get behind the render, which froze 
over the winter and the render then blew by two metres in each direction.
When AA inspected the damage, it decided the damage was caused by a natural breakdown 
in materials, rather than a one-off storm event. When Mr R complained, AA maintained its 
decision to decline the claim. It said this type of damage was excluded under the terms of 
the policy.
So, Mr R complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it 
was reasonable for AA to decide the damage wasnt storm-related and to decline the claim.
As Mr R didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that there were storm strength winds in 
the period before Mr R first found an issue. Ive also checked weather reports and saw wind 
speeds that would be considered to be a storm under the terms of the policy. So, the answer 
to the first question is yes.
For the second question, Mr R said the storm winds caused a bracket to move and also 
caused a cable to whip around. I think strong enough storm winds could cause items to 
dislodge or move. So, I think the answer to the second question is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question. When AAs surveyor inspected the damage, they 
didnt find any evidence that the bracket had moved. The bracket was partially coated in the 
render and that render remained intact. The surveyor said the movement of this bracket 
would have meant that this was the first area to debond. The surveyor also took photos of 
the damage and the bracket.
The surveyor inspected the render around the area of damage and more widely and found it 
was hollow when tapped, which confirmed that it had debonded. The surveyor also found 
further cracking to the property. Based on their assessment of the damage, the surveyor 
said the render seemed to have failed due to a natural breakdown in materials.
The surveyor also looked at the internal damage. Based on what had been found externally, 
the surveyor said it was highly likely that the internal damage was the result of penetrating 
damp, rather than a one-off event.
Im aware that Mr R has said that he has spoken to several people who have said the 
damage was more likely due to the bracket. However, I havent seen any assessment to 
support this, so I put more weight on the AA surveyors findings.
Ive also looked at the policy wording. This said:
This policy does not insure the following:
1.Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including deterioration, wear 
and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
So, based on what the surveyor found, I think it was reasonable for AA to decide that the 
damage was more likely the result of a natural breakdown of material and penetrating damp. 
As the policy didnt cover that sort of damage, I also think it was reasonable for AA to decline 
the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require AA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman