DRN-3838016
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt send a faster payment to the correct bank
account.
What happened
On 13 November 2021, Mr L made a faster payment of £400 to fund the purchase of a car
hed seen on a social media marketplace. But the beneficiary claimed they didnt receive any
payments from Mr L.
Lloyds Bank confirmed to Mr L that the payment was sent to the correct account details and
agreed to send him a letter which could use as proof of payment. On 16 November 2021,
Lloyds Bank sent Mr L a confirmation of payment letter, but this had the wrong sort code.
Unhappy with this Mr L raised a complaint. Lloyds Bank said theyd sent the funds to the
correct account but had made a typo in the confirmation of payment letter. They sent Mr L
further confirmation of payment letters on 23 November and 8 December 2021, but these
had the same mistake again quoting the incorrect sort code.
Mr L believed that Lloyds Bank had sent the funds to the wrong account and asked them to
reimburse him. Lloyds Bank refused to refund Mr L as they said that the funds were received
by the beneficiary. The gave Mr L confirmation of the correct account details and explained
the typos were caused by human error. They apologised for the inconvenience caused and
paid Mr L £60 compensation.
Our investigator said that there were no bank errors when processing the payment as the
beneficiary bank had confirmed the funds were received. She said Lloyds Bank had paid a
fair amount of compensation for the errors in the letters he was sent. Mr L disagreed and
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 November 2022, and I made the following findings:
The beneficiary bank has confirmed that Mr Ls payment of £400 was received into 
the sellers account on 13 November 2021 at 1.34pm. So, Im satisfied Lloyds Bank 
processed Mr Ls faster payment as per his instructions and I cant fairly ask them to 
reimburse him.
That said, I think the level of service Mr L received from Lloyds Bank fell short of 
what he could rightly expect to receive. Lloyds Bank have paid Mr L £60 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to him. I dont think this goes 
far enough to reflect the impact on Mr L.
Based on what Ive seen so far, sadly it appears that Mr L has been a victim of a 
scam. Lloyds Bank seem to agree with this also. I say this because the seller still 
claims they havent received the funds despite their bank confirming receipt of the 
payment. Theyve also told Mr L that theyd since sold the car. These are indications 
that this was most likely a scam. Car scams of this nature arent uncommon.
I appreciate Mr L doesnt believe hes been scammed, but he appears to have taken 
this stance because of the errors made by Lloyds Bank. This is because the 
confirmation of payment letter sent to Mr L on 16 November 2021 had the incorrect 
details, as it was missing a digit from the sort code.
Mr L shared this letter with the seller as proof of payment. Unsurprisingly, the seller 
then convinced Mr L that the reason they hadnt received the payment he sent was 
because Lloyds Bank sent it to the wrong details as stated in their letter.
Lloyds Bank then sent two further confirmation of payment letters on 23 November 
and 8 December 2021. Unfortunately, both of these also had the same mistake 
(wrong sort code) as the letter of 16 November 2021.
The letters also said that no bank error had occurred and to liaise directly with the
beneficiary. However, from Mr Ls point of view, Lloyds Bank had made an error as 
theyve confirmed in writing three times that the payment was sent to the wrong sort 
code.
Given that Lloyds Bank repeated the same mistake three times, it reinforced Mr Ls 
faith in the seller and made them more trustworthy in his eyes. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable that Mr L believes the fault lies with Lloyds Bank rather than him being 
scammed.
I can also understand why Mr L had lost confidence in Lloyds Bank. And he couldnt 
accept the explanation he was given, that the payment had been made to the correct 
account and that Lloyds Bank had made typos in three confirmation of payment 
letters. Theyd lost all credibility with Mr L after repeating the same mistake three 
times.
Mr L was caused unnecessary frustration, distress and annoyance when the first
confirmation of payment letter was sent to him with the incorrect sort code. Lloyds 
Bank knew about the mistake theyd made but still didnt take sufficient care to 
ensure the next confirmation of payment letter sent to him was correct.
A third confirmation of payment letter sent to Mr L also had the same mistake. By 
repeating these errors, the impact on Mr L was compounded. He was already worried 
about the payment not reaching the seller, so it added to his stress.
These mistakes caused delays in Mr L trying to resolve this issue with the seller  
although we now know that it was likely a scam, Mr L wasnt aware of it at the time, 
so he wouldve still been affected by the delays.
Mr L was worried and frustrated about the car being sold to someone else. He was 
also caused unnecessary inconvenience in having to contact Lloyds Bank several 
times, including visits to the branch. If Lloyds Bank hadnt made the further mistakes 
after the first letter, then its likely Mr L wouldve realised hed been a victim of a scam 
sooner.
Taking everything into account, I think £200 in total is fair and reasonable to 
compensate Mr L for the distress and inconvenience he was caused. Lloyds Bank have already paid him £60 so they should now pay an additional £140 to fairly 
resolve this complaint.
I hope that Mr L is now reassured after an independent review that Lloyds Bank 
correctly actioned his faster payment instruction. If hes now willing to accept hes 
been scammed, he can speak to Lloyds Bank about considering a claim under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) to see if he may be entitled to a full or 
partial refund.
Its important for me to point out that CRM aims to offer an increased protection to 
customers from authorised push payment scams. But this doesnt mean Mr L is 
guaranteed to receive a refund as certain exceptions apply. If Mr L isnt happy with 
the outcome of the claim, hell need to raise it separately to this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Mr L didnt accept my decision. He said that the inability of Lloyds Bank to supply him with 
proof of payment will cost him £200. Lloyds Bank confirmed they agreed with my 
recommendations.
In the final response letter dated 17 December 2021, Lloyds Bank explained the letters 
previously sent had the incorrect beneficiary sort code. They confirmed the correct sort code 
where the payment was sent to and explained that the mistake in the previous letters were 
caused by human error. 
Lloyds Bank apologised for the inconvenience caused and asked Mr L to use the final 
response letter as evidence going forward to confirm that the payment was sent to the 
correct details. They also told Mr L to seek independent advice if the seller still refutes 
receiving the payment.
Based on this, I cant agree that Mr L wasnt given proof of payment, nor that Mr L was out of 
pocket due to the actions or inactions of Lloyds Bank. As explained in my provisional 
decision, it appears Mr L has been a victim of a scam causing him financial loss. 
Although Lloyds Bank took much longer than reasonably expected to give Mr L the proof of 
payment, and only did so after three incorrect attempts  they did give Mr L the information 
he needed in their final response letter to pursue matters further with the seller.
In any event, I dont think Mr L wouldve been able to purchase the car nor receive his 
money back from the seller, even if Lloyds Bank hadnt made a mistake in the proof of 
payment letter or if theyd not made repeated typos after their first letter of 16 November 
2021. I say this because the seller still claims they havent received the funds despite their 
bank confirming receipt of the payment.
Also, its important for me to clarify that the award of £200 compensation in total is not to 
reimburse Mr L for the financial loss hes suffered as a result of what appears to be a scam. 
Since Lloyds Bank processed the faster payment in line with Mr Ls instructions, they cant 
fairly be held responsible for Mr Ls loss.Instead, as explained in my provisional decision, the compensation award is in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr L by the poor service he received from Lloyds 
Bank. 
I appreciate Mr L feels strongly about his complaint, but I remain satisfied that £200 
compensation in total is a fair amount under the circumstances and see no reason to deviate 
from the outcome I explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay Mr L 
£200 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman