DRN-2553601
The complaint
A Ltd, represented by Mr H, complained because Santander UK Plc allowed a former 
director to withdraw £2,500 from the business bank account.
What happened
One of A Ltds two directors, Mr M, resigned from the company on 20 November 2019. Mr H 
was then the sole director.
In early March 2020, Mr H went into a Santander branch. Hed moved, and he wanted to 
change his address, and remove Mr M from A Ltds business account. He also wanted to 
change the account type to a 123 Business account. There are conflicting accounts about 
what was said in the branch.
Mr Hs version is that the adviser told him she would cancel Mr Ms card and change the 
address. But he was told the only thing they couldnt change was the account type because 
this would have to be done by a business manager. Mr H said he was told the business 
manager would ring him to sort out the change of account type.
Santanders version is that Mr H was told he couldnt remove an account signatory without 
necessary official documents about the company. It said Mr H was aggressive in the branch. 
The branch manager did stop Mr Ms debit card, but said that A Ltds business account 
couldnt be managed from a branch. So the names on the account could only be changed by 
a business manager, and with the relevant official documents.
Both sides agree that a business manager tried to ring Mr H on 9 March and didnt get a 
response. Theres a disagreement about how many times the business manager rang, and 
whether or not he also sent a text asking Mr H to phone back. 
The balance on A Ltds account had generally been low in late 2019 and early 2020. But on 
19 May 2020, a £1,666.68 Covid Job Retention Scheme payment from HMRC credited A 
Ltds business account. On 29 May, the former director of A Ltd, Mr M, carried out an online 
withdrawal for £2,500. This left A Ltds account with a balance of £36.29.
Mr H discovered what had happened and rang Santander. He was very angry about the loss 
of the furlough scheme money. He said that Mr Ms debit card couldnt have been cancelled 
on 7 March or the money couldnt have been taken out. Santander told him that the £2,500 
withdrawal had been made online. 
Arrangements were then made for the necessary documents to be provided. A Ltds 
accountant wrote on 2 June 2020 confirming that Mr M was no longer a director. And A Ltd 
also sent the Companies House document, called TM01, which confirmed that Mr M was no 
longer a director of A Ltd. 
But Santander didnt uphold A Ltds complaint that it should be refunded for the £2,500 
withdrawal. It said that Mr M had still been on the account when the withdrawal was made, 
so hed been authorised to access the account. 
Mr H, representing A Ltd, wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
The investigator didnt uphold A Ltds complaint. He accepted that branch staff in early 
March had told Mr H that it couldnt make the changes to A Ltds account which Mr H had 
requested. And as Mr M was still on A Ltds account with Santander at the time of the 
withdrawal, it had been authorised and Santander didnt have to refund it.
Mr H, for A Ltd, didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision. He said that when he 
visited the branch to remove his former business partner, Santander hadnt made him aware 
that A Ltds account couldnt be managed in a branch. And Mr H said hed been told that Mr 
M could be removed. He felt Santanders branch staff had been negligent in what theyd 
said. Mr H said that if they had told him this, hed have taken the right steps to remove Mr M 
straightaway.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, theres a direct conflict of evidence between Mr H and Santander 
about what was said in the branch in early March. Theres no written evidence, for example 
notes or follow-up letters. So I cant know for sure what was said. It does sometimes happen 
that I dont have all the evidence Id like, and when this happens, I take my decision on the 
basis of what I think is more likely to have happened, taking into account the circumstances 
and whatever evidence I do have.
Ive first considered whether or not Santander told Mr H in early March that Mr M couldnt be 
removed from A Ltds account straightaway in the branch. For any removal of a director from 
a company account, it would be necessary to have official documents, including the 
Companies House TM01 form. Theres nothing to suggest Mr H knew this before he went to 
the branch. So he couldnt have taken these documents with him. That means it would 
always have been necessary for him to have a conversation with the business manager or 
business team about what was needed. And hed then have to provide these official 
documents before the removal of Mr M as a director and signatory could take place.  
So I find that it was more likely than not that the branch did tell Mr H that removal of Mr M 
from A Ltds account couldnt be done straightaway in the branch. Thats also borne out by 
the fact that the business manager did try to contact Mr H.
I recognise that Mr H might have been busy when the business manager rang him. Its 
disputed how many times the business manager rang that day, and whether or not he sent a 
text as well. But even if the business manager only rang once and didnt send a text as well, 
I consider it would have been reasonable to expect Mr H to have returned the business 
managers call, because the process for ending Mr Ms role as a signatory on A Ltds 
account hadnt been completed.  It was the business managers last working day with 
Santander, but Mr H could have phoned Santanders customer services after that, as he did 
later during the complaint stages. 
If Mr H had phoned the Santander back, I find that its likely hed have been told about the 
formal steps needed to remove Mr Ms access to A Ltds account. And he could then have 
asked his accountant to sort out the letters and documents promptly, as was done later. This 
would have prevented the withdrawal on 29 May.Even though Mr H didnt ring back straightaway in early March, it would have been prudent 
for him to have done so later on, when he knew there was going to be a large credit to the 
account in mid-May. This is particularly so when Mr H made it clear that the split with Mr M 
hadnt been amicable.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of A Ltds account, to check the requirements for 
what A Ltd had to do. Section 4 is about Limited Company accounts and it says:
4.1.  You will notify us immediately if:
a) There is any change, by way of resignation, removal, appointment or death, of
-The directors
-Any authorised signatories on your account.
The Companies House form TM01 shows that Mr Ms directorship of A Ltd was terminated 
on 20 November 2019. I realise that Mr H moved house at this time, and that any business 
has many things to do. But I consider it would have been reasonable for Mr H to have 
contacted Santander earlier than March 2020, and certainly before the large credit to the 
account. 
So I find its more likely than not that Santander did tell Mr H that there would be more steps 
hed have to take, in providing official documents, in order to remove Mr M from A Ltds 
account. And ultimately, at the time of the withdrawal, while Mr M was no longer a director of 
A Ltd, he was still an authorised signatory on the Santander account. As he was an 
authorised signatory and hadnt been removed, he was still able to make online withdrawals. 
So I find that Santander wasnt wrong to permit the withdrawal by Mr M from A Ltds account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman