DRN-3327018
The complaint
Mr G complains that how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a claim made 
against his motor insurance policy led to a County Court Judgement (CCJ) on his record. He 
wants compensation for the stress and upset this caused him and his family.
 
What happened
Mr G was involved in an accident with another driver in 2015 and he made a claim on his 
policy. Liability was disputed, so Mr G said RSA appointed solicitors who refused to continue 
in 2017. RSA then appointed another firm of solicitors but didnt tell Mr G this. The solicitors 
defended the case in court. But in 2020 Mr G found that a CCJ had been recorded against 
him in 2019. He thought this was due to RSA not paying an award on time, not telling the 
court that it had met its requirements and not providing required information. 
Mr G said the CCJ had prevented him from selling his house to buy another. He said hed 
paid a £255 fee and attended court to have the CCJ removed. But RSA said the CCJ was 
due to the courts error and not due to its mistake.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr G 
had initially appointed his own solicitors to dispute liability. But in 2017 RSA has appointed 
its own solicitors to defend and settle the claim. RSA and Mr G had accepted liability, but the 
other drivers solicitors had disputed the costs. RSAs solicitors defended the case and the 
court awarded costs against the other driver but asked Mr G to pay the other drivers repairs 
costs. 
The Investigator thought RSA had, in effect, done this on Mr Gs behalf. And so the error in 
recording the CCJ was due to the court, not RSA or its solicitors. He thought RSA and its 
solicitors had tried to get the CCJ removed and for the court to compensate Mr G for its 
error. But they were limited by Mr G taking his own action. The CCJ was eventually set aside 
but the court declined to pay compensation.
Mr G replied that he had a letter from the court that confirmed that the CCJ was recorded 
against him because RSA didnt make the necessary payment by the set date. He said the 
court had waited 14 days and then recorded the CCJ against him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that it must have been a shock for Mr G to find that a CCJ for a significant 
amount had been recorded against his credit record. I was very sorry to hear about the effect 
this had on him and his family. 
I can see that there were four agencies involved in having the CCJ registered against Mr G, 
RSA, two sets of solicitors and the court. The court isnt within our jurisdiction so Im unable 
to consider its actions here. The solicitors are also outside our jurisdiction. But I can see that 
Mr G has raised a complaint about it with the legal ombudsman. 
Here I am limited to considering whether RSA did anything wrong that led to the CCJ being 
registered against Mr G. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
From what I can see from RSAs records, Mr G initially appointed his own solicitors to deal 
with the case. When they declined to continue and the other drivers solicitors were pursuing 
significant costs, RSA appointed its own solicitors to defend the matter in court. It said this 
was in its own and Mr Gs interests. 
Mr G thought RSA should have told him that it had appointed its solicitors to defend him. But 
whilst I think this would have been good customer service, I dont agree that it was required. 
This is because liability wasnt then an issue, but the amount of the claim which RSA would 
have to pay was. So Mr Gs direct involvement wasnt required, and he didnt need to attend 
court.
And I can see that RSA is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr G to 
take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr G has to follow its advice in connection 
with the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a 
common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual.
Mr G thought RSA wasnt entitled to appoint solicitors and give them his personal information 
under data protection rules. But I think RSA is entitled to do this under the policys terms and 
conditions that Mr G had agreed to when he took out his policy. 
RSAs solicitors defended Mr G in court and managed to reduce the other drivers claim to 
repairs costs only and the court awarded costs against the other driver. So, to settle the 
court order, RSA agreed that the other insurer should pay its costs less the repair costs.  
From RSAs file, I can see that its solicitors told it the matter had been concluded and RSA 
closed its file. But, unbeknown to RSA or the solicitors, the court registered an unsatisfied 
CCJ against Mr G. The sum was the total of the two awards, one payable by RSA for the 
repairs and one payable by the other driver for RSAs legal costs. 
When the CCJ was brought to RSAs attention by Mr G it asked for his consent for its 
solicitors to represent him to have the CCJ set aside. Mr G declined this and took out his 
own action with the court to have the CCJ removed. 
The solicitors also complained to the court about the incorrect CCJ and asked it to 
compensate Mr G. Ive seen the courts letter in response. The court agreed there had been 
an error in entering judgements after the hearing and it apologised for this and set aside the 
incorrect entries. 
The court said it hadnt been previously informed that the payments had been made. And I 
can see that Mr G thinks the CCJ was recorded because RSA was late in making payment 
of the award. But I cant say that this was RSAs responsibility or that it caused the CCJ to 
be recorded because RSA had no payment to make. 
From the information Mr G has kindly provided, I can see that the other drivers solicitors 
paid RSA, through its solicitors, the required amount. But the date of the transaction was 
later than Mr G said the court required. But, as Ive said above, the solicitors fall outside my 
jurisdiction so I cant consider their actions here. 
So Im satisfied that the court accepted there was an error in how it recorded the 
judgements, and this led to the unsatisfied CCJ being recorded against Mr G. So I cant say 
this was RSAs fault. And as it hasnt done anything wrong, I dont require it to pay Mr G any 
compensation. 
The court also said that Mr G had submitted an application to have the whole claim removed 
as fraudulent and a hearing was listed. And it declined to pay Mr G compensation as it 
hadnt previously been given the opportunity to correct its error. So I think RSA did what it 
could to make things right for Mr G. I cant say that it needs to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman