DRN-1588332
The complaint
Mr S complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional DE Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. has unfairly declined a claim he has made under his GAP insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought his car in 2016. Alongside insuring his car, he also bought GAP insurance to 
cover the difference between any total loss payout from his insurer and the invoice price of 
his car. 
In April 2019, Mr S reported his car stolen. He contacted both his insurer and his GAP 
insurer. His car was recovered a short time later with just a small amount of damage, so he 
didn't continue with his claim. 
On 25 August 2019, Mr S reported his car as stolen. Earlier in the day, he had driven down 
the road to catch up with family and parked the car at the end of his street. The family went 
for a meal and walked a different way home. It wasn't until some time later Mr S realised his 
car had been stolen. He reported this to the police and both his motor and GAP insurer. He 
had both sets of keys in his possession at the time.
Mr S's motor insurer settled his claim on 6 September 2019, settling for £20,800 less the 
policy excess. So Mr S submitted a claim to Mapfre for the difference. Mapfre spoke with  Mr 
S about the circumstances of the claim, as set out above. As it had concerns about the 
information provided, it carried out tests on both sets of keys. The tests showed that one set 
of keys had been used on 26 August, the morning after Mr S had reported the theft. Mapfre 
therefore declined the claim as it didn't believe the theft had occurred, or if it had occurred, in 
the manner described by Mr S. 
Mr S arranged for another company to carry out a forensic test of the keys. This report also 
showed one of the keys last usage as 26 August 2019. So Mr S contacted the manufacturer 
of his car. It was explained that if the date and time in the car was set incorrectly, it would 
also record on the key incorrectly. Mapfre was unwilling to reconsider the claim and stood by 
its decision when responding to Mr S's complaint about that. 
Our investigator didn't find that Mapfre had relied on its fraud clause fairly to decline the 
claim. She was satisfied a possible explanation had been provided as to why the key had 
recorded usage after the date of the theft. So she recommended it pay the claim. 
Mapfre disagrees. It doesn't consider the comments from the manufacturer to be sufficient 
evidence to support Mr S; it says they are vague and don't conclusively state there was an 
error with the keys or offer an alternative explanation as to why the day is recorded a day 
later. It says it would expect to see a technical explanation in how such a difference could 
arise - is it an issue with the ECU or the entertainment system? It considers its evidence 
more compelling. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position for any claim is the contract between the parties - Mr S's policy 
document. Mr S has return to invoice price cover. This means the policy will pay the 
difference between a total loss payout by a motor insurer and the price Mr S paid for his car, 
up to a certain limit. 
When Mapfre declined Mr S's claim it referred to clause 7 of the policy:
We reserve the right not to pay any claim under this policy if you, or anyone acting on 
your behalf, provides material information that is inaccurate, or fails to disclose any 
information in response to a specific request, which might reasonably affect our 
decision to provide insurance under this policy. 
It doesn't seem to me, given the reasons provided by Mapfre for declining the claim, that this 
is the clause it is relying on (as this wasn't about information provided when taking out the 
policy), rather it appears to be clause 8 of the General Conditions, to some extent:
If any information provided by you, or by anyone acting on your behalf, is fraudulent or 
is intended to mislead us, or if any fraudulent or misleading means are used to obtain 
payment under this policy, we shall be entitled to cancel your policy and recover any 
sums paid and costs incurred. 
Mapfre declined the claim as it had concerns about the circumstances of the theft, that the 
car had been reported stolen twice in one year and because of the information recorded on 
one of the keys. It declined it as it didn't believe the theft had occurred, of if it did, not in the 
manner described by Mr S. 
Mr S has shown he has a valid claim under the policy. He has had a total loss claim settled 
by his motor insurer, and there is a remaining sum to return Mr S to his invoice price 
position. As Mr S has a valid claim, it is for Mapfre to show his claim is excluded, and it is 
relying on it fraud clauses. Fraud is a very serious allegation and Mapfre needs to show Mr 
S's claim is more likely than not to be fraudulent, in order for it to fairly rely on that clause. 
Having considered the evidence provided, I'm not persuaded Mapfre has declined Mr S's 
claim fairly.  Mapfre had a number of concerns about the claim.
Firstly, it was concerned Mr S had driven his car just a short distance down the road and left 
it parked there. It was also concerned he had walked back a different way.  Mr S has 
explained he drove the car down the road as he had been on a call when his family left to go 
out for a meal; he wanted to catch up with them. I find nothing unusual or concerning about 
this. Mr S also walked back a different way. He has explained this was to 'walk off his lunch'. 
Again I find nothing unusual about this; particularly as Mr S explained he had a couple of 
drinks and so wouldn't have been able to drive. I have no concerns about why Mr S drove 
his car a short distance down the road. 
Mapfre was also concerned as this was the second reported theft of Mr S's car in a year. I 
can understand why this might cause concern. But Mr S has explained that when his car 
was stolen in April 2019 it was recovered a short time later. And as it only had a small 
amount of damage, he didn't proceed with a claim. Our investigator independently checked 
this with Mr S's motor insurer, something Mapfre was able to do. And its records support 
what Mr S has explained. So whilst I can understand why this might have been an initial 
concern, Mapfre could have satisfied itself very easily about that. I turn now to the readings of the main key. Both of the reports, including Mr S's report, show 
the key reading its last usage on 26 August.  This is a day after Mr S reported his car as 
stolen. Again I can understand why this has caused concern for Mapfre. On the face of it, 
this suggests that either the car wasn't stolen, or the circumstances of the theft weren't as 
described. 
However, I do need to take into account that the car manufacturer has given an explanation 
of how the key can provide incorrect readings about usage; if the day and time are wrong in 
the car then the key will also read the wrong information. It isn't possible for us to know now 
if the car had the wrong date and time; it was stolen and hasn't been recovered. But it seems 
to me this is an entirely plausible explanation for the discrepancy. I'm not persuaded we 
need a technical report to show whether the information comes from the ECU or the 
entertainment system (and Mapfre knows we haven't been able to get any further 
information from the manufacturer). The manufacturer has already given an explanation as 
to how that can happen. And I don't find it vague. 
Mapfre hasn't relied on any other evidence to support its declination of the claim.  I have 
already found that some of its concerns are unfounded.  I do accept it had valid concerns 
about the key reading. But I'm satisfied the manufacturer had provided a plausible 
explanation as to how that can occur. Mapfre hasn't shown that explanation is wrong, or not 
applicable to the circumstances of this claim. I'm not persuaded its key reading report, in 
light of the other evidence provided, is sufficient evidence to show the theft didn't occur, or 
didn't occur in the manner described by Mr S. It follows that I find it has unfairly declined this 
claim. 
Putting things right
As I have found Mapfre has unfairly declined this claim, I require it to:
settle Mr S's claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy; and 
if the claim is payable add 8% simple annual interest to the settlement from the date 
of loss to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional DE Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to redress Mr S as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman