DRN-3683378
The complaint
Mr V complains that State Bank Of India (UK) Limited (SBI) transferred the wrong amount to 
another of his accounts.
What happened
Mr V says he asked SBI to transfer about £5,335 to a bank I will call Y on maturity of his 
account in May 2022. He says he asked SBI to reinvest the remainder of the money with it 
which was about £85,000. Mr V says all of his money was transferred incorrectly to Y which 
meant he lost interest. He would like compensation for what took place.
SBI says Mr V initially told it that he wanted to transfer some of the money but told it to await 
instructions from Y. SBI says Y requested transfer of the full account balance in April 2022 
and so followed that request. It doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mr V brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought SBI had followed Ys request and had followed Mr Vs instructions to 
wait for Ys request.
Mr V doesnt accept that view and says SBI ought to have called him as Ys request was 
contrary to his initial instructions. And that SBI knew what his intentions were.
I asked both sides for further information and for Y to explain what its role was. Y accepts it 
made the mistake in requesting the full account balance and has paid Mr V compensation in 
July 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr V told SBI what his instructions were before the account maturity, but he also 
told it to await instructions from Y. Im satisfied that Y has told us and Mr V that it made the 
mistake and requested the full account balance from SBI. So, I cant fairly hold SBI 
responsible for what took place and think it was reasonably entitled to follow Mr Vs 
instructions to await Ys request. I cant see how SBI would have known Y made a mistake in 
these circumstances and think it unreasonable for it to have contacted Mr V to check if the 
instructions were correct.
Im satisfied that Y accepted it made a mistake and paid Mr V compensation in July 2022. I 
can see it explained what took place sometime ago. So, I cant see why Mr V says SBI was 
at fault or what reasonably it could have done differently. I have made clear that it would be 
unreasonable, as Mr V says, to have checked with him if the instructions were correct when 
he told SBI to await Ys instructions. I also dont think it reasonable for any business to be 
able to check every transaction as Mr V suggests.
Overall, Im satisfied Y made a mistake and paid Mr V compensation nearly a year ago. Im 
satisfied that SBI simply followed instructions that it reasonably believed came from Mr V 
and that it wasnt responsible for the mistake. It follows that I cant fairly order SBI pay 
compensation or do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman