DRN-4281875
The complaint
Mr L complains he has been treated unfairly by Zopa Limited when it closed its peer to peer 
(P2P) lending platform. He says loans within his account had been written off without any 
payment to him  and this is unfair. 
What happened
Mr L held a P2P lending account for a number of years on Zopas platform and invested 
funds in return for interest. 
In December 2021, Zopa advised investors that it would be stopping consumer investments 
and transferring all loans to its newly formed parent company. It proposed to buy investors 
entire loan portfolios at current face value (plus any interest that borrowers have already 
paid up to the date of sale). But for loans that were in default it wouldnt make any payments 
when acquiring the loans.  
Mr L complained as he didnt agree that his defaulted loans had no value and believes he 
should be compensated for the loss. 
Zopa responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said:
- Any defaulted loans left in Mr Ls portfolio were acquired as part of the loan book 
sale. 
- When a loan defaults the value of that loan drops to £0.00 (this would be the face 
value of these loans), so he wouldn't have received a payment for these loans, and 
neither did any of other customers. 
- As the loans were written off at £0.00 value there is no benefit here for Zopa.
As Mr L was unhappy with Zopas response he referred his complaint to this service for 
independent review.
Zopa provided some further information about Mr Ls remaining loan portfolio at the time the 
platform closed. It said:
- Mr L was paid £46,303 as part of the loan portfolio acquisition  made up active 
loans and loans in arrears.
- In respect of the defaulted loans, nearly all them were defaulted well in advance of 
the platform closure date. The remaining defaulted loans shown would not have been 
ineligible for previous debt sales usually for reasons such as bankruptcy or 
vulnerable customers.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
- He didnt think Zopa had treated Mr L unfairly in how it dealt with the acquisition of 
his loans. 
- Regarding the defaulted loans that were acquired with zero value, he accepted there 
was minimal further capital recovery expected.
- He noted that Zopa had paid Mr L face value for the loans in arrears (which were at 
increased risk of default)  so this made up for that fact it hadnt paid any value for 
the loans already in default. 
Mr L didnt agree and maintained that he hadnt been treated fairly by Zopa. In summary he 
said:
Zopas statements regarding the defaulted loans and the debt recovery have been 
accepted at face value
When Zopa gave notice of the platform closure it said this would be completed by 31 
January 2022, but in actual fact funds were returned to his holding account much 
sooner, in early January. This meant he lost out on nearly a months worth of interest. 
By acquiring the defaulted loans without payment to investors, it means Zopa or its 
associated companies will benefit from possible recoveries.  
Zopa didnt follow the wind-down plan that was part of its Investor Principles  
including that it may sell loans to a third party but would give an option to opt out and 
retain loans. But this didnt happen as defaulted loans were simply transferred to 
Zopas associated companies.
He was able to download a copy of a loan book from Zopas website in May 2022  
and this implies the loans were still in Zopas possession and further supports the 
process was chaotic. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopa has provided the reasons why it decided to close its P2P platform to retail customers. It 
says this was essentially due to commercial viability, market conditions and challenges 
brought about by regulation. So, it appears Zopa was exercising its commercial judgement 
when deciding whether its P2P platform was viable on an ongoing basis. This is something it 
is able to do and not something I am able to make judgement on. But I can consider whether 
Mr L has been treated fairly in how his investments have been administered as a result of 
this decision. 
Firstly, I think it would be helpful to set out the terminology I will use when explaining Mr Ls 
loan portfolio. I will also set out my understanding to the loan acquisition exercise that took 
place as part of the platform closure.  At the time Mr L received notice from Zopa of the 
platform closure his loans fell into three categories:
Active loans - those that had payments up to date.
Loans in arrears - those that had suffered payment problems and borrowers were 
behind in payments, but crucially hadnt yet been declared in default. 
Defaulted loans  these are the loans that had suffered from ongoing payment issues 
and had formally declared in default and were subject to attempted potential 
recovery. 
My understanding of the loan acquisition exercise completed in January 2022 is that Zopa 
paid Mr L the full capital value of both the Active loans and the Loans in arrears he held 
within his portfolio. But for his defaulted loans it acquired them without making any payment 
to him. The information I have received indicates that Mr L was paid just over £46,000 for his 
loan portfolio  and of this amount £2,633 was for loans in arrears. His defaulted loans had a 
notional value of £1,373 - but as mentioned he didnt receive any payment for these. 
Mr L has argued that he has been treated unfairly in the way Zopa acquired his loans. He is 
particularly unhappy about not being paid anything for his defaulted loans. I understand the 
point he makes about the principle of the potential for recovery payments to be made  so his defaulted loans still hold some value. But I also need to look at the circumstances of the 
platform closure and what he received for the other loans he had in his portfolio before 
deciding whether, overall, he has been treated fairly. 
Ive considered whether Zopa were treating Mr L fairly when it acquired his defaulted loans 
with paying him anything. At the point the portfolio acquisition took place between December 
2021 and January 2022, these were funds that had failed to be fully recovered despite 
attempts being made and werent considered to be suitable for a third-party sale.  So, this is 
evidence that the chances of any meaningful recovery being achieved were limited  
although it doesnt mean it wasnt possible for there to some future recovery, and therefore 
these loans were worthless. But this isnt enough in itself to say Mr L has been treated 
unfairly, Ive also thought about how Zopa treated the remainder of his portfolio. 
Zopa has confirmed the value of the loans Mr L held that were in arrears totalled £2,633. 
These loans while not formally defaulted had run into payment problems. So, there was an 
enhanced risk that any (or all) of the loans Mr L held in this situation could default, and 
potentially lose some or all of his capital invested. Zopa agreed to pay Mr L the full capital 
value of his investment in these loans. This effectively took away this risk and guaranteed 
full capital repayment for these group of loans. I consider this to be reasonable approach, 
and in some ways a generous offer considering the enhanced risk I mention above. When I 
weigh up this offer with the decision to acquire Mr Ls defaulted loans without value, I dont 
find he has been treated unfairly in the circumstances. The amount he received for loans in 
arrears is nearly double the notional value of the defaulted loans that were acquired without 
payment. 
Mr L remains unsatisfied with the information provided to show that Zopa has correctly paid 
him for his loans in arrears. Zopa has provided evidence of Mr Ls loan portfolio by sending a 
spreadsheet that details the loan IDs and the amount paid for each loan in arrears. Mr L has 
questioned the validity of this evidence. But I dont think this evidence that should be 
dismissed without consideration. Mr L hasnt provided alternative evidence that would 
persuade me that what Zopa has provided is inaccurate. So, on balance, I find that this is 
evidence I can rely upon when establishing how Mr Ls loan portfolio was compensated as 
part of the platform closure.  
Mr L has raised a point about Zopa indicating it would provide him with the option to opt-out 
of sale of his loans. Ive reviewed the information Zopa provided on its website about its 
wind-down plan should it need to close the platform. This does refer to the option Mr L 
mentioned. But I note the plan provides potential strategies that Zopa may follow as opposed 
to something it will categorically follow. Overall, I dont find this point sufficient to say Mr L 
has been treated unfairly. Zopas approach gave a quick guaranteed return of capital on 
loans that werent in default.  On balance, Im satisfied the decision to repay Mr L the capital 
on his loans (included those with late payment) outweighs any concerns about not fully 
following the published wind down process. 
Mr L has raised a further point about the fact his loans were acquired before 31 January 
2022, in early January 2002, meaning that he lost out on interest payments that he could 
have received. When Zopa wrote to its customers about the loan acquisition it explained 
Youll receive your investment balance by 31 January 2022  not on this date. It went on to 
say that the loan purchase will happen in stages with newest loans first and completing with 
oldest loans no later than 31 January 2022. Again, this indicates the latest point it would 
happen, and implies that it could happen sooner. Ive reviewed the contents of the chat Mr 
Ls wife had when deciding when to submit an ISA transfer, but I dont find that this sets out 
a different position as it still refers to a date by the 31 January 2022. And Im conscious the 
context of this chat was in relation to an ISA transfer not regarding the specifics of the loan 
acquisition. While I acknowledge the fact Mr Ls loan acquisition happened relatively quickly and well ahead of the latest date given, I dont find Zopa has having done something wrong 
here. I do appreciate that Mr L would like to have received interest up to 31 January 2022, 
but the fact his loans were acquired sooner doesnt lead me to think Zopa need to pay him 
anything further. As Ive previously explained, I also dont think it is appropriate to make a 
finding on Zopas decision to close the platform. 
I have noted all of the other points Mr L has made in response to the investigator. While I 
havent commented on every point, I have considered everything in reaching my conclusion 
on the crux of his complaint. I appreciate Mr L believes the platform closure was chaotic and 
questions whether the loans are still in Zopas possession. But he has been paid out for his 
non-defaulted loans and the process for his portfolio was competed in January 2022. While 
Mr L believes Zopa should be held to account for its handling of the platform closure, my role 
isnt to punish Zopa. Rather I can direct Zopa to pay compensation to Mr L where I think its 
action have caused a loss. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr L, but I 
havent found that Zopa need to pay him any further money from the loan acquisition. For 
the reasons set out above, Ive reached a finding that he hasnt been treated unfairly by 
Zopa when it acquired his loans when closing the platform. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman