DRN-3199383
The complaint
Mr Z complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) have a fault in their system 
which asked him for answers to security questions which he did not set, resulting in a 
withdrawal being delayed.
What happened
Mr Z wanted to make a withdrawal (which he says he had a deadline and needed the money 
urgently) from an account he held with NS&I. He says that when he attempted to log into his 
NS&I account, it asked him two security questions. Mr Z said that he had never been asked 
security questions previously. 
Mr Z says that his first instinct was to ignore these questions as he wouldnt have set these 
questions. If he had of set security questions when he first opened his account, then these 
would have been historical, and these questions were not part of his routine logging in 
process. Mr Z says he did not attempt to answer these questions due to him not having the 
answers to these questions at his disposal. As he concluded it was most likely a mistake, 
then he says he clicked on the next button to move further. He says that the system locked 
him out and restricted his access, not because he had given the wrong answers three times, 
but because he did not attempt to answer the questions, which was proof of a failure with 
NS&Is security system.
Mr Z contacted NS&I who informed him that as he couldnt answer the security questions, 
then he had to send NS&I a form in order to withdraw the funds he urgently needed. The call 
handler guided Mr Z through the system in order for him to do this and he explained that he 
would need to send Mr Z a new temporary password, so he would be able to change his 
security questions. The call handler also registered a complaint on Mr Zs behalf. After the 
call had ended, the call handler rang back Mr Z to inform him that the security questions 
asked were set on 26 April 2013. 
NS&I did not uphold Mr Zs complaint. They said the security details have been intact on the 
account since Mr Z opened his account and their staff have no access to customer password 
information, which is encrypted, or the answers which are provided to the security questions. 
They said they were unable to tell him the reason why his attempts to provide the correct 
answers were unsuccessful.
Mr Z brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She 
said NS&Is authentication process was in place to protect his investment and while he said 
he hadnt been asked the additional security questions before, this doesnt mean that he 
shouldnt have been asked the additional security questions when he tried to withdraw funds. 
She said that due to encryption, its not possible to establish what security answers he 
provided to them in 2013. Our investigator said that the system didnt allow him three 
attempts to answer the security questions because Mr Z clicked the forgotten answers 
button without attempting to answer the security questions. She provided Mr Z the NS&I 
screenshots of the activity of his account.
Mr Z asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he was challenged by the wrong security questions as he did not set up 
the questions he was asked, he received a call back from the call handler he previously 
spoke to confirming Mr Z was correct and that the security questions he was asked in 2013 
were not the same questions he was asked in April 2021, NS&I did not ask him any security 
questions on any subsequent log in attempts, which proved there was a fault on the day he 
attempted to make his withdrawal.
Mr Z said from the screenshots our investigator sent him, that the very last entry by him said 
authentication successful, and previously said successful logon which proved he did 
everything right and that he did nothing to be locked out of his account. He said if there 
wasnt an entry showing as user locked out then why did they order him a temporary 
password the following day and an entry showing as customer now needs to re-enrol.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id also like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer 
for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr Z from the outset that Im unable to tell NS&I how to operate their security 
processes, such as when they should display security questions to answer. Instead, Ill focus 
on the crux of Mr Zs complaint regarding NS&I having a fault in their system which asked 
him answers to security questions which he says he did not set.
Mr Z is adamant that he did not set the security questions that NS&I asked, and NS&I are 
adamant that he did set these questions. As the data is encrypted and not available for me 
to see, then Ill need to make a decision without this information. 
When it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the 
evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of 
probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Im not persuaded that there was an error in NS&I asking Mr Z security questions, especially 
as he was attempting to make a withdrawal from his account, but the issue here is whether 
the questions were what Mr Z initially set up. Ive considered what Mr Z has said about not 
being asked security questions online since he opened his account, so I asked NS&I why he 
would be asked these questions now, to see if there was a fault with them displaying security 
questions here. 
NS&I confirmed to me that a customer can be randomly challenged by a security phone call 
or security questions usually when they request a withdrawal or attempt to change their 
details. So Im satisfied it would be reasonable for NS&I to have security controls in place to 
randomly verify a customer in different ways when they are making a withdrawal or changing 
their details. So Im not persuaded this would be unusual here as Mr Z was attempting to 
make a withdrawal. 
Mr Zs account activity shows he logged into his account on 6 April 2021 at 18:02, but he 
was asked the security questions at 18:12, so Im satisfied that the security questions werent asked as a result of him just logging into his account, but because he had navigated 
the NS&I website in the following 10 minutes to try and make a withdrawal, and it appears 
that this is when he was challenged by the security questions.
Looking at Mr Zs account activity from when he set up the security questions, he had been 
challenged by this method previously, when he tried to change his bank payment details on 
the same day that Mr Z set up his security questions on 26 April 2013. The screenshot of his 
account activity shows that he was challenged by his security questions approximately 47 
minutes after NS&I collected this information. The account activity showed challenge by 
security questions followed by challenge successful. So Im satisfied that Mr Z had been 
asked his security questions previously and he successfully answered them. 
Ive then looked at his account activity in the dates in between the time he was first asked his 
security questions and 6 April 2013, to see if there is any indication that the security 
questions had been changed. But there is no evidence to show that Mr Zs security 
questions had been changed from when they were first set. NS&I confirmed to me that there 
has never been an incident where the security questions had changed from what the 
customer originally answered, to them being displayed at a later date. So on the balance of 
probabilities, Im satisfied that Mr Z was asked the questions that he originally answered 
eight years earlier.
Ive considered what Mr Z has said about not being asked the security questions since he 
changed them, which proved that there was a fault on the day. But as NS&I explained, these 
are asked randomly and they would usually be asked if a customer was making a withdrawal 
or changing their details online. So I dont agree that this is proof there was an error on the 
day he tried to make a withdrawal online.
Ive considered what Mr Z said about the call handler ringing him after the call he had with 
him earlier. He says the call handler told him that the security questions he was asked in 
2013 were not the same questions he was asked in April 2021. So Ive listened to the call to 
hear what the call handler told him. Mr Z tells the call handler that he did not set up those 
questions, to which the call handler says it doesnt tell me what questions they were but it 
tells me we collected security questions that day. So I cant agree that Mr Z was told by the 
call handler that they asked him different questions to the ones he completed in 2013.
Ive also considered what Mr Z has said about the screenshots that our investigator sent him 
regarding his account activity. He has mentioned they showed he had successfully logged 
into his account and that the authentication was successful. I asked NS&I why the 
screenshots frequently showed authentication successful. 
NS&I confirmed that authentication successful is always paired with successful logon and 
this would indicate that either Mr Z or a call handler had accessed his customer profile. They 
also added that it was created at the same time that Mr Z clicked on the forgotten answers 
button, which would display this way for any of their customers and that the authentication 
successful record has no significant meaning. Ive looked at the order of his transactions 
from 6 April and the authentication successful message is at the exact same time as he 
was able to log into his account as normal at 18:02, when he clicked the forgotten answers 
button at 18:14 (Mr Z had said he clicked on next, but on his original phone call he described 
trying to set up the security questions again, although it asked him to set up his password 
again, so he cancelled this). So I cant say the display of his transactions on 6 April 2021 
suggests the NS&I system was not functioning how it should have been.
Ive considered what Mr Z has said about being locked out of his account. And the 
screenshot of his account activity did not show an entry for user locked out. He said to us 
that the system locked him out and froze his access, not because he had given the wrong answers three times, but because he did not attempt to answer the questions in any shape 
or form.
NS&I have confirmed that Mr Z had always been able to log into his account (until the brief 
period between a temporary password being ordered and activating it. They explained their 
website uses a multilayer security, which means that logging in with the password gives the 
customer access to most items, balances, account details etc, but as Mr Z did not provide 
the answers to the security questions, he was effectively restricted from completing the 
withdrawal without the system officially locking him out. 
So Im persuaded that the system worked how it should have done here. A temporary 
password was ordered by the call handler so he could reset his security questions. And Im 
not persuaded that any of the entries of the account activity on 6 April 2021 proves there 
were any errors with the security questions that Mr Z was asked that day. So on the balance 
of probabilities, for the reasons Ive already given, Im satisfied that Mr Z wasnt asked the 
wrong security questions. So it follows I dont require NS&I to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman