DRN-3031642
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2000. 
Mr A says Coventry Building Society mis-sold him this PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to CBS throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. However, they thought CBSs offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr A paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive also decided CBS should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that CBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
I think it is clear enough that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. 
I say this because we still have access to the mortgage application he used to get his 
mortgage in 2000 and I can see he specifically chose the PPI option on the mortgage 
application form. He was then sent or given a Mortgage Offer, a document I feel Mr A would 
have wanted to read quite carefully. This too confirmed that PPI was being added, as per his 
request. This, in my view, represents strong evidence that Mr A would have known he had a 
choice and that he took out the PPI because the cover was something he wanted to have. 
In my view, CBS properly obtained his consent.
There is no evidence CBS carried out an advised sale. So it was for Mr A himself to check 
that the PPI was right for him. CBS had a duty to make sure he had clear enough 
information to make that choice.
Its certainly possible the information CBS gave to Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
might have been. But the paperwork he signed shows he knew the cost, which was around 
£9 per month and he could see what broadly was being covered by the policy. I think 
information about the policys limitations and exclusions could probably have been more 
prominent, but we know Mr A wasnt affected by these. I therefore dont think hed had acted 
any differently in making his decision.
The evidence about Mr As circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him and it was affordable in his situation. And there was nothing 
about Mr As employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for him to claim. 
This was a mortgage secured against Mr As home and so the consequences of him not 
keeping up with the repayments could have been serious. He was eligible for the cover and 
it wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he 
was most likely given during the sale. Because of all this I dont think Mr A would have 
declined the cover even if had CBS could have done a better job at explaining certain things. 
I note what was said about Mr A already having some sick pay with his job. However, this 
doesnt make the PPI of no use as it could have paid up to £180 per month for up to a year 
in the event of a successful claim. As Ive said, as non-advised sale, it was Mr A to 
determine whether he needed this type of insurance.
Overall, I think he had enough information on which to make an informed decision. 
Mr As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant CBS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means CBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr A.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided CBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
CBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
CBS didnt tell Mr A about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: - The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
CBS and Mr A was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because CBS 
didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think CBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr As representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr A should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: CBS failed to tell Mr A about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr A wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid. But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr A in order to remedy the unfairness caused by CBS not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipSo, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr As representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for CBSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for CBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr A paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr A with the policy Ive concluded above 
he would still have taken out if CBS had done everything it should have done  but with 
lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that CBSs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr As complaint or make any award.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Coventry Building Society should pay Mr A an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). I understand this offer was previously made to Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman