DRN-4165312
The complaint
Mr C, through his representative, complains that Valour Finance Limited, trading as 
Savvy.co.uk (Valour) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr C took two loans with Valour and a summary of the borrowing is in this table here:
Loan Approved Amount Monthly Repay Repaid
1 13 January 2022 £400 6 x £121.53 13 May 2022
2 23 May 2022 £700 8 x £175 Due to end 31 January 2023
Mr Ms representative submitted his complaint when the loan 2 was still within its loan 
agreement term. The last instalment was due to be paid on 31 January 2023. 
Valour issued its final response letter (FRL) in which it explained all it had done to check 
elements of Mr Cs finances before approving the loan, which included telephone calls with 
Mr C in January 2022 and May 2022. Copies of those recorded calls were forwarded to us.
Mr Cs profession meant that most of his living costs were deducted from his wages and so 
the money he received in his hand  around £1,400 a month  was after his housing and 
food costs had been removed. His parents home was the one he used for a home UK 
address and where he was based for correspondence purposes, but his job meant he was 
often abroad.
 
Valour did not uphold his complaint about either of the loans and so Mr Cs representative 
referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators looked at all the 
information and evidence sent by both parties and thought that Valour had done all that 
would have been expected of it. He did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Cs representative has said it did not agree but gave no reason why and sent in no 
additional evidence. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Valours checks couldve taken into account several different things, such 
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Cs income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C. But a pattern would not have 
developed here as Mr C took two loans only. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint. Ive decided not to uphold his complaint 
and I explain here. 
I think that Valour carried out proportionate checks as it verified his income, and checked his 
credit file which did not show any elements to prompt it to be unduly concerned. There was 
nothing there to indicate that Mr C was in financial difficulties or had been falling behind in 
his payments. Mr C had no open loan accounts at loan 1 and his main credit agreement 
appeared to relate to motor insurance which was costing about £279 a month. 
The telephone calls Mr C had with Valour in January 2022 and in May 2022 were recorded 
and we have received a copy of those calls which I have listened to. Mr C confirmed several 
elements of the application and explained some accounts and credit card use. These 
demonstrate how particular and how detailed Valour were on those calls.  
The income and expenditure assessment Valour carried out indicated that Mr C had enough 
disposable income to repay the £121 a month for loan 1. 
On the call for loan 2, Mr C was asked about a bounced back payment on 31 March 2022 
for the first Valour loan. Mr C checked his bank immediately (while he was on the telephone) 
and explained that when he gets paid he transfers money to the other account out of which 
the payment for the loan was due to be made. He had noticed at the time it had failed as he 
had not paid the money over to that account but then he paid the Valour loan 1 instalment 
on-line manually. I cross-referenced this with the loan 1 repayment history which appeared on Mr Cs personal credit file (to which I refer later in this decision) and it had not registered 
as a late payment and so Valour clearly did not treat it as such. 
On that second call, Mr C was asked about being slightly over his credit limit on one of the 
credit cards. It had a balance of £258 on a £250 limit and Mr C said it was a supermarket 
pay at pump issue which satisfied the Valour representative.
Mr C had just moved address and so the Valour representative asked for two documents to 
prove residency. Mr C could send that immediately as both his bank statements would have 
the new address. So, loan 2 was approved subject to those documents being sent in. 
Mr Cs representative has sent to us a personal credit file report for Mr C dated 
November 2022 and the two loans taken with Valour are registered on there. Neither had 
any repayment issues and as of November 2022 loan 2 was being paid down in accordance 
with the terms of the agreement. A few more repayments were due. I assume that it has 
been paid off now but I need not ask for that information from Mr C or from Valour as what 
I was asked to review was the lending decision which for loan 2 was May 2022. I have all the 
information I need to make that assessment. 
Although I have reviewed Mr Cs personal credit file I have relied on the credit searches 
Valour carried out in January 2022 and May 2022 as those provided to it the information on 
which it relied when making its lending decisions. So, Mr Cs file was useful for background 
information, but that was all I utilised it for. 
Overall, I can see that Valour carried out proportionate checks and Mr C was not 
overindebted. The creditworthiness assessment Valour was required to carry out 
demonstrated to it that Mr C could afford to repay the instalments. There was no other 
information Mr C told Valour or which Valour discovered in its own research which indicated 
Mr C was in an insolvency situation or was having financial difficulties. I do not uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
20 September 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman