DRN-3998747
The complaint
Mr K complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Oakbrook Loans lent him an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case n 13 February 2023 where I set out a detailed 
background to this complaint and my provisional findings. That decision forms part of this 
final decision. Ive copied some parts of my provisional decision below in italics;
What happened
Oakbrook lent Mr K one loan in August 2022, the loan was for £7,500 with 36 monthly 
instalments of £288.27. The loan had a total repayable amount of £10,377.72.
When Mr K complained to Oakbrook, it didnt uphold his complaint, it said it carried out 
sufficient and proportionate checks and those checks showed Mr K could repay the loan. 
Unhappy with that response referred his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought Oakbrooks checks went far 
enough and those checks showed Mr K could afford the loan. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr K disagreed, he said at the time of the loans he had a gambling addiction and had 
Oakbrook carried out proper checks, it wouldnt have lent to him.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oakbrook was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority when it lent this loan, so it is 
aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this lending 
decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat them here. 
But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr K would be able to 
repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that 
means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences
Oakbrook says it searched Mr Ks credit records at the time, although it has been unable to 
provide the full results of its search, it has provided results from the search it carried out in 
December 2022, when Mr K made his complaint.
Oakbrook asked Mr K about his monthly income and expenses and he declared his income 
as £25,000 per annum, Oakbrook says it verified Mr Ks monthly income using an online tool 
and found he received around £1,721.84. Mr K declared his housing costs as £250 and
Oakbrook said it worked out Mr Ks living costs including his housing as being around 
£829.36 per month and his credit commitments were around £312.80, it says it added a £50 
buffer and so after repaying this loan, Mr K was left with around £241.41 disposable income 
each month.
This was Mr Ks first loan with Oakbrook and so he had no previous history with it. I think the 
results of Oakbrooks checks were concerning, Oakbrook essentially found that including the 
repayment of £288.27 towards this loan, Mr K would be paying around £508 towards 
unsecured credit commitments monthly. In my view, that was a significant portion of his 
income. This along with the cost of the loan and its term should have prompted Oakbrook to 
take its checks further. I think it should have been curious to verify his monthly outgoings as 
well to satisfy itself that Mr K could sustain the repayment over the three year term. It follows 
that I dont think Oakbrook did enough before lending this loan.
Mr K has provided copies of his bank statements to the Financial Ombudsman Service, these 
statements reflect Mr Ks financial position around the time of the loan. Ive relied on these to 
understand Mr Ks position at the time Oakbrook lent to him.
From what I can see, Mr K was gambling significant sums regularly. For example in June and 
July 2022 he gambled over £3,000, while he did have some winnings from the gambling, it is 
clear that it was a pattern of spending hed established. I can also see that in the relevant 
months, Mr K was significantly in his overdraft.
So, if Oakbrook had carried out what I think were proportionate checks, based on what it
knew about Mr K, I think it is likely to have found that he was struggling to manage money 
and borrowing to fund a gambling habit. This wasnt sustainable and Oakbrook would have 
seen that Mr K was likely going to struggle to repay the loan over the term. And as a 
responsible lender, wouldnt have lent him this loan. Oakbrook has lent when it shouldnt have 
and so it needs to out things right.
Both parties were given an opportunity to provide further comments and evidence. The 
deadline for response has now passed.
Mr K responded accepting my provisional findings, but Oakbrook didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence that persuades me 
otherwise, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
Oakbrook lent to Mr K when it shouldnt have an it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
Treat any payments Mr K made as payments towards the capital amount of £7,500;
If this results in overpayments, add interest of 8% simple a year on any 
overpayments from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
If after reworking the account theres still outstanding balance, Oakbrook should 
agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr K;
remove any negative information about loan from Mr Ks credit file once Mr K has 
repaid the capital borrowed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakbrook to take off tax from this interest. Oakbrook must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Oakbrook Finance 
Limited trading as Oakbrook Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman