DRN-3405825
The complaint
Mr C complains that Vanguard Asset Management Ltd caused a delay when he was 
transferring his stocks and shares ISA from his old provider. 
What happened
Mr C held a stocks and shares ISA with his old provider. In late 2020, he wanted to transfer it 
to Vanguard. He submitted his transfer request to Vanguard on 29 November 2020 however 
the transfer didnt complete until 17 March 2021. Mr C has complained about both Vanguard 
and his old provider about the delays. This decision is about Vanguards actions only. For 
clarity, I will include a timeline of activity.
Timeline
29 November 2020  Mr C makes a transfer request to Vanguard.
30 November 2020  Vanguard made a valuation request and initiated the transfer on an 
electronic transfer system that both it and the old provider use.
1 December 2020  the transfer was rejected. Mr C and Vanguard confirm that the reason 
for the rejection was the account number being incorrect. Vanguard called Mr C to ensure 
the details were correct and additional attempts were made on the system on 3 December 
2020 and 22 December 2020 but this time without the ISA prefix.
5 January 2021  Vanguard emails the old provider to say it has attempted the transfer via 
the electronic system and asked it to check the ISA reference number.
14 January 2021  The old provider sends a letter to Vanguard saying it cannot correspond 
by email due to security reasons and confirmed it didnt have a transfer request.
18 January 2021  Vanguard calls the old provider to continue to chase the transfer and it 
says nothing is showing electronically and to make the request manually and only by post.
22 January 2021  date stamp shows Vanguard sent the transfer request to the old provider 
in the post.
25 January 2021  The old provider sends a letter to Vanguard with the valuation.
1 March 2021  Valuation received by Vanguard which was accepted the same day by post. 
Its worth noting that Vanguard chased the old provider twice during this period but it 
appears the valuation wasnt received for so long due to postal delays. Mr C asked the old 
provider specifically to send the funds to Vanguard by BACS and not cheque.
4 March 2021  The old provider receives the valuation acceptance from Vanguard.
9 March 2021  The old provider sends ISA history forms to Vanguard. It also sends funds 
via a cheque. After queries and a cancellation of the cheque the funds are transferred by 
BACS on 15 February 2021. The transfer completes on 17 February 2021.
Mr C complained but Vanguard explained it did everything it could. Our Investigator agreed. 
She explained that she didnt think Vanguard was responsible for the delays Mr C 
experienced. She also said that Vanguard kept Mr C updated throughout the process.
Mr C felt that both the old provider and Vanguard failed to understand the electronic system 
and that the transfer took too long and he should be compensated for that. He asked for an 
Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint as I dont believe Vanguard is responsible 
for any of the delays. Ill explain why.
When Vanguard received Mr Cs instructions it immediately requested the transfer on the 
electronic system. Ive seen evidence to show that it put the correct details in but the system 
rejected it saying it was incorrect. This was because there were account validation changes 
made in the background by the electronic transfer system provider that affected the old 
providers accounts. But when the old account provider found out about this, it didnt notify its 
users or Vanguard. By the time this was corrected, Vanguard had already attempted the 
transfer again. 
The evidence the old provider has given me shows that the third attempt, on 22 December 
2020, wouldve gone through had the ISA prefix been present in the same way it was the 
previous times. However, as Vanguard hadnt been told about the issue, I can understand 
why it made a change to attempt to get the electronic transfer to be accepted. I dont think 
Vanguard is at fault for the failed transfer attempts electronically as it was following 
instructions based on the information it knew to be correct.
I can see Vanguard spoke to Mr C regularly and also contacted the old provider to facilitate 
the transfer. When it received any correspondence from the old provider Vanguard 
responded quickly. Its unfortunate that there was a large delay waiting for the valuation from 
the old provider. It does appear that this was due to postal delays. But, as Vanguard chased 
this twice, and was only using postal correspondence due to the old providers processes I 
cant hold it responsible for this delay.
I appreciate Mr Cs ISA transfer shouldve completed relatively easily. And there were clear 
issues from the old provider that caused delays. But from the evidence Ive seen, Vanguard 
hasnt caused any delays with the transfer. I can see it continued to communicate with Mr C 
and also tried to resolve issues with the old provider which is what Id expect. I dont think it 
couldve done anything differently to avoid the delays Mr C experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman