DRN-3615183
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) handled his 
home insurance claim. Any reference to Acromas in this decision includes respective agents.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr F made a subsidence claim on his Acromas home insurance policy.
The claim was initially declined and closed by Acromas on the basis that the 
information it had seen regarding the damage didnt indicate subsidence.
The claim was reopened and accepted in September 2020 after Mr F reported the 
cracks getting bigger and Acromas then arranged a sight visit which led to a 
conclusion that subsidence was in fact the likely cause. 
Monitoring of the subsidence began and ran as it should until July 2021 when Mr F 
says Acromas then caused unnecessary delays, failed to communicate with him as it 
should have and incorrectly informed him he didnt need to pay his £1,000 excess  
later retracting this and advising no work would be carried out on his property until it 
was paid. Mr F complained to Acromas about these points.
Acromas upheld Mr Fs complaint in its entirety. And alongside agreeing to take the 
necessary steps to get the claim back on track it offered him £300 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr F didnt think the amount offered was fair and complained to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and was of the opinion the delays hadnt 
been fully accounted for by Acromas when calculating the compensation. He also 
said it needed to further recognise the impact its misinformation about the excess 
had on Mr F. So he said Acromas should increase the compensation to £650.
Acromas disagreed. It said the compensation it had already offered fairly reflected 
the delays caused. And while it accepted it told Mr F he didnt need to pay the 
excess; it didnt think it should have to award more money for human error when the 
correct excess information is set out in Mr Fs policy documentation.
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
In this decision, I can only consider the complaint Acromas responded to in its 
February 2022 final response letter, which it upheld in full.
What seems to be left in dispute from this complaint, is whether or not Acromas has 
offered fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F as a 
result of its poor handling of his claim. And thats what Ill consider in this decision.
Acromas is required to handle claims promptly and fairly. But its accepted its fallen 
short of this to some extent in this case.
Mr F says the impact of this has caused him significant anguish and stress and has 
further delayed him putting his house on the market to move nearer to elderly family. 
Hes also had to borrow money to pay the policy excess of £1,000 after spending it 
when he was misinformed by Acromas that it didnt apply. 
I accept this caused a great deal of upset to Mr F, further compounded by the 
experience of delays and the poor communication from Acromas throughout a 
notable portion of the claim history. 
But for Acromas error regarding the policy excess, I think its unlikely Mr F wouldve 
had to borrow the money he previously had set aside to pay it. So I can understand 
why he feels very upset about this and thinks hes been treated unfairly by Acromas.
While the policy excess does fairly apply as set out in the policy documents, the fact 
is, Mr F was told by Acromas that it didnt. I dont think its unreasonable he took it at 
its word and ultimately spent the money hed set aside for it. 
So while its fair that Mr F paid the policy excess, I agree with our investigator that 
Acromas compensation should take into consideration the impact the misinformation 
regarding this had on Mr F.
I say this because, this error not only resulted in a loss of expectation regarding the 
policy excess but also the inconvenience and unexpected financial impact of having 
to pull together a large sum of money at short notice so that the claim could proceed.
Acromas accepts there have been several avoidable delays in this case and these 
have had a considerable impact on the progression of Mr Fs claim. 
In addition to the delays Acromas accepts it caused, Im also persuaded it couldve 
done more when Mr F first logged the claim in May 2020 to accurately determine the 
cause of the damage being claimed for which most likely wouldve meant the process 
of repair works couldve started sooner than it did.
With all this in mind and on balance of what Ive seen overall in this case, Im 
persuaded theres been a considerable amount of upset and inconvenience caused 
to Mr F as a result of Acromas poor handling of his claim. And Im not satisfied the 
impact of this has been fairly reflected in the compensation its already offered Mr F. 
It follows I agree with the investigator that Acromas should increase its offer of 
compensation to Mr F from £300 to £650.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr F a total of £650 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman