DRN-2656438
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how National House-Building Council (NHBC) has handled 
their claim on their buildings warranty.
While the warranty is in the name of both Mr and Mrs G, for ease of reading I have referred 
just to Mr G throughout. 
 
What happened
Mr G bought a flat that came with a ten year buildings warranty with NHBC. A few years into 
the warranty there was a problem with water ingress from the dormer roof and he made a 
claim under section 3 of the warranty. The external problem was fixed, however there was 
some internal staining on the roof of the lounge that also needed to be repaired. 
Mr G initially contacted the original builder of the property to rectify the issue. However he 
later realised that he had a conflict of interest with the company relating to his work. So he 
requested that all contact was carried out directly between him and NHBC. 
NHBC said it could arrange for the repairs to be carried out, but it would be completed by the 
original builder. Mr G wasnt comfortable with this as he was working from home and said it 
wouldnt be appropriate for him to work while the builder was there due to the conflict. He 
said he would need to take annual leave or be placed in alternative accommodation while 
the work took place.
NHBC didnt agree to this. It said the repair work was a relatively small job and suggested 
Mr G move his desk into a different room while it took place. Alternatively, it offered a cash 
settlement for the work of around £140. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair, he said he wouldnt be able to get the repair work done for 
that amount and didnt want to have to project manage the work. He said it wasnt possible 
for him to move his desk as he has a number of adjustments due to a disability. So he would 
either have to take annual leave or move out of the flat, which he felt NHBC should pay for. 
He made a complaint.
NHBC didnt uphold his complaint. It said under the warranty its required to cash settle at 
the amount it would cost it to have the work done, so the amount offered was fair. However it 
said if Mr G was to obtain a few quotes it would consider these. It said it felt alternative 
accommodation was disproportionate for the work that was needed and the policy doesnt 
cover for reimbursement for annual leave. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this, so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she felt the cash 
settlement offered was fair in the circumstances. And as NHBC had offered the option of 
considering quotes obtained by Mr G then this was a fair alternative. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said he didnt feel comfortable letting trades people into his home to 
quote for the work during the coronavirus pandemic. He also said NHBC had said it would 
need to be reputable trades people who carry out the work and it hadnt explained what this 
meant. He also said that the scope of works provided by NHBC hadnt covered everything 
and more work might need to be done when the job is started, so didnt think a cash 
settlement was fair. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has raised a number of complaint points throughout the claim. As this is an informal 
service, I havent responded to each one individually, Ive focused on those I think are most 
relevant. However I want to reassure Mr G that I have considered everything hes said when 
reaching my decision. 
Mr G isnt happy with the settlement offered by NHBC. I need to consider whether NHBC 
has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the warranty and treated Mr G fairly and 
reasonably.
How the claim was settled
When an insurance claim is made, it is for the insurer to decide how it chooses to settle the 
claim. In this case NHBC originally offered to carry out the work required using its 
contractors. However Mr G explained why he wouldnt be able to work in the flat while the 
work took place. NHBC therefore decided it would be more appropriate to cash settle the 
claim.
As Mr G has explained he has a conflict of interest with the builders, I understand why he 
wouldnt feel comfortable working while they were completing the repairs. As he is currently 
working from home full time, I can see this would be particularly inconvenient. NHBC has 
explained that it doesnt have access to other contractors for the job, and this isnt unusual 
for insurance providers. 
As the contractors will cause Mr G problems, and they are the only ones available to NHBC, 
I think its reasonable that NHBC has offered a cash settlement instead. It means Mr G can 
choose a more suitable company and minimise any disruption to his work. 
Mr G has said he would prefer NHBC to carry out the work as he suffers with his mental 
health and doesnt want the added responsibility of project managing builders himself. I 
sympathise with Mr Gs situation and can understand that arranging and managing building 
work can be stressful. 
NHBC has said that the warranty doesnt provide for alternative accommodation in the 
circumstances. The warranty states as follows:
We will pay you any reasonable costs that you incur by prior agreement with us for removal, 
storage and appropriate alternative accommodation if it is necessary for anyone normally 
living in your Home to move out so that work can be done.
So while I appreciate Mr G may wish to move out to avoid the builders and be able to work 
comfortably, I have to consider what the warranty provides cover for. As the work is painting 
and plastering of a small section of the ceiling of the lounge, I dont agree it would be 
necessary for Mr G to move out in order for the work to be completed. And as the warranty only provides alternative accommodation when someone has to move out in order for the 
work to be done, I dont think NHBC has acted unfairly by not offering this.
Mr G has said NHBC could alternatively pay for him to take annual leave during the time the 
repairs take place. NHBC has said the general exclusions of the warranty state the following 
wont be covered:
Any loss of enjoyment, loss of use, loss of income or business opportunity, inconvenience or 
distress, or any loss arising or cost incurred (or both) only indirectly, as a result of the events 
or circumstances that led to your claim or complaint.
So it wouldnt cover him for reimbursement of annual leave. Mr G has said that the loss he 
would suffer from taking annual leave wouldnt be as a result of the circumstances that led to 
the claim or complaint, but instead as a result of the repair work, so this exclusion wouldnt 
apply. However as the repair work is only required due to the claim, it is as a result of the 
claim. I therefore think NHBC has acted fairly by applying this exclusion. 
So while I understand why Mr G would rather have the repairs arranged by NHBC, I have to 
consider the limitations of the warranty. And in this case, considering Mr Gs circumstances, 
I think NHBC has acted fairly in the settlement it has offered. 
Cash settlement
Mr G has also said he isnt happy with the amount offered as part of the cash settlement. He 
says other builders have commented that it wouldnt be possible to carry out the required 
work for the amount. 
NHBC has said that it is only required to offer the amount it would cost it to have the work 
completed. And this may be less than the market rate. 
The warranty states:
We will pay you the full Cost of putting right any physical damage to your Home...
And defines cost as:
The cost we would have had to pay if we had arranged for relevant work to be done.
NHBC has provided evidence to show that the amount offered is the amount it would cost it 
to have the work completed. So Im satisfied that it has acted fairly in offering that amount.
NHBC has said if Mr G was to obtain quotes for the work required it would consider these. 
And given the circumstances, I think this is a fair offer.
I understand Mr Gs concerns about allowing numerous trades people into his home to quote 
for the work due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. However many companies are 
working in different ways in order to avoid face to face contact due to the pandemic, so he 
may wish to explore the options available. 
Scope of works
Mr G has also raised concerns about the scope of works that NHBC has based its cash 
settlement on. He says he doesnt think it covers enough work to complete the job. At this 
service we arent experts in building work. So I have to rely on evidence from those who are. NHBC has based its scope of works on the opinions of its builders. And Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest it doesnt cover the necessary work required to complete the repairs. So 
I dont think NHBC has acted unreasonably by basing the settlement on its scope of works.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman