DRN-3021299
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs Y complain that Mortgage Express is continuing to pursue them for the 
remaining balance in respect of four buy-to-let mortgages they previously held.  
What happened
Mr S and Mrs Y owned four buy-to-let properties. The mortgages for all four were held with 
Mortgage Express.
Mr S and Mrs Y have explained that, the cost of maintaining the properties, including making 
the mortgage payments, exceeded the rental income. So, they became unsustainable. As a 
result, possession of the properties was granted to Mortgage Express, and they were 
subsequently sold.
The first property was sold in June 2011. After the sale proceeds were applied to the 
mortgage account there was a balance remaining (a shortfall) of just under £65,800.
Two further properties were sold around May 2014. After the sale proceeds were received 
these mortgages were left with shortfalls of just over £57,200 and £60,2000 respectively.
The last of the four properties was sold, at the end of April 2015. The mortgage account for 
this property was left with a shortfall of just over £40,400.
As a result, the total shortfall debt still owed in respect of all four mortgages, after they had 
all been surrendered, stood at just over £223,700.
Mr S and Mrs Y say that they discussed matters with Mortgage Express shortly after the 
properties were surrendered and it agreed not to pursue them for the remaining balance.
In November 2018 Mr S and Mrs Y wrote to Mortgage Express explaining that their 
residential mortgage was due to expire. And they were looking to replace this with a 
retirement mortgage, as their financial situation had not improved. But they said that 
potential lenders were unwilling to provide a retirement mortgage, because of the shortfall 
balances still owed to Mortgage Express. As a result, they asked that Mortgage Express 
consider writing off the balances.
Mortgage Express declined to do so. But it said itd consider the request further if Mr S and 
Mrs Y provided them up to date information about their financial situation. Mr S and Mrs Y 
did so, but Mortgage Express still declined to write off the balance. And it then asked Mr S 
and Mrs Y for proposals to repay the shortfall debt.
Mr S and Mrs Y complained to Mortgage Express about it not writing off the debt. And they 
said they didnt think it was fair that Mortgage Express was now pursuing them for the 
shortfall balance and asking for repayment proposals. They said it had agreed not to do so in 
2015, so didnt think Mortgage Express was acting reasonably in breaking this agreement. 
In addition to being unhappy at being pursued for the balance Mr S and Mrs Y were also 
unhappy with how this had come about. They said that they felt Mortgage Express had made 
an error when it agreed to provide all four of the mortgages. They also complained about the 
sale prices Mortgage Express achieved for the properties. And they questioned whether 
Mortgage Express had been truthful about the amounts received as information available on 
third party websites about sold prices suggested the properties mayve sold for more than 
Mortgage Express told them. 
Mortgage Express said it hadnt made an error when selling the properties and had achieved 
the best possible prices. And it thought it was entitled to still pursue Mr S and Mrs Y for the 
shortfall balance. It said it could find no evidence of an agreement not to pursue the balance 
previously. It also said it felt Mr S and Mrs Ys concerns about the decisions to grant the 
mortgages had been made too late, according to the rules set by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
The complaint was referred to our service. Another Ombudsman made a decision on the 
extent of our powers to consider the complaint. She concluded that we did not have 
jurisdiction to consider the lending decisions made by Mortgage Express when it granted the 
loans. But she found that we did have jurisdiction to consider whether Mortgage Express had 
acted correctly when it sold the properties and whether it was fair that it was now requesting 
repayment of the shortfall balance.
One of our Investigators then looked into the parts of the complaint that the Ombudsman 
had concluded we had jurisdiction to consider. He thought Mortgage Express hadnt done 
anything wrong when selling the properties after being given possession of them. And he 
didnt think it was unreasonable that Mortgage Express was now requesting repayment. But 
he did think Mortgage Express mightve misled Mr S and Mrs Y previously, by potentially 
suggesting it wouldnt ask for any further repayments. So, he suggested that Mortgage 
Express pay them £500 for the upset caused by this.
Mortgage Express accepted the Investigators opinion and agreed to pay £500 as 
recommended.
Mr S and Mrs Y did not agree with the Investigators opinion. They did not think it was fair 
that Mortgage Express was pursuing them for the shortfall balance as it had previously 
agreed not to. And they said the Ombudsman that decided our jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint had found it was likely such an agreement was made. As a result, they said they 
believed our service could only now fairly tell Mortgage Express it couldnt pursue the debt.
As Mr S and Mrs Y did not agree with the Investigators opinion in relation to the merits of 
their complaint, the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the properties once possession had passed to Mortgage Express
Mr S and Mrs Y have questioned the actions of Mortgage Express when selling the four buy-
to-let properties, after taking possession. In particular, whether the prices achieved were 
reasonable and in turn whether the shortfall balances are correct or fair. Theyve also 
questioned whether Mortgage Express has provided correct information about what the sale 
prices were.
When Mortgage Express took possession of each property, Id expect it to have them valued 
for sale by suitably qualified expert. And then Id expect it to market the property promptly and try to achieve the best price it could. Id also expect it though to balance this with also 
achieving the sale promptly, to avoid arrears increasing on the mortgage and as generally, 
the longer a property is for sale, the less demand there is for it.
Mortgage Express has provided details of the valuations of the property which was sold in 
2011, undertaken at the time. And Im satisfied these were carried out by appropriate parties. 
These estimated the market value to be between £50,000 and £71,000. And they note the 
intention was to begin marketing towards the higher end of that price range. However, the 
valuation Ive seen also notes that the property was in poor condition, having apparently 
been damaged by the previous tenants. And the valuation also talks about the market in the 
area being over-supplied.
Mortgage Express has provided a memorandum of sale showing that a sale was agreed 
several months later for £45,500. I think this indicates the property was marketed for an 
appropriate period of time. The price achieved is below the market value range given in the 
valuation report as well as the intended initial asking price. There is very little other 
information available in respect of this sale. And I think this is understandable given how 
long ago this sale happened. But given the notes in the valuation about the condition of the 
property and the market in the area at the time, on balance I think these likely played a part 
in the price achieved. And overall, based on the information that is available, I havent seen 
anything that leads me to think Mortgage Express acted incorrectly in respect of this sale or 
that it didnt achieve the best price it could.
There were then two properties that were sold in 2014. Ive seen details of the valuations of 
the first property sold in 2014, again carried out by suitably qualified experts. These said the 
property was in good condition and a sale should be achievable. And they gave an 
estimated market value of £47,000 to £50,000. It appears that the property was on the 
market for several months. And Ive seen evidence that, a few months later, a sale price of 
£49,000 was agreed. Ive also seen a declaration from the selling agent that this was the 
best price they were able to achieve. 
For the second property sold in 2014 the available valuation shows a market value of 
£44,000. It again noted that the property was in good condition and there should be potential 
demand. The valuation was carried out by a suitably qualified professional. The property was 
again marketed for several months, with a sale price of £43,500 ultimately achieved. And the 
selling agent has again provided Mortgage Express a declaration confirming they considered 
this to be the best achievable price.
Taking this into account, Im also satisfied for the properties sold in 2014 that Mortgage 
Express has acted fairly. The properties were marketed in line with the valuations provided 
and the prices achieved were broadly in line with those valuations as well. The properties 
were also marketed for an appropriate amount of time. And the selling agents informed 
Mortgage Express that the best prices possible had been achieved. I think 
Mortgage Express was entitled to rely on this information. And I dont think it has made an 
error by agreeing to the sales at the prices it did.
The final property was sold in 2015. A valuation of this property was carried out in late 2014, 
estimating its market value at £95,000. And I can see that a sale was agreed in April 2015 
for £100,000. So, this property was marketed for several months, to allow for offers to be 
made. And the sale price achieved exceeded the estimated value provided to 
Mortgage Express by the professional valuer. So again, based on what Ive seen, I think it 
has acted correctly when selling this property.
Mr S and Mrs Y have questioned the valuations, when compared to the prices they paid 
when the properties were purchased. But property values do change over time. And the valuations carried out at the point the properties were passed into Mortgage Express 
possession were, based on the evidence Ive seen, carried out by appropriately qualified 
professional valuers, and based on market conditions at the time. So, I dont think I can fairly 
say that these valuations were incorrect or that Mortgage Express was wrong to rely on 
them.
Mr S and Mrs Y have also said they arent sure that Mortgage Express has quoted the actual 
sale prices, as theyve said information recorded with third party websites suggests the 
properties sold for more than Mortgage Express had said. But Im satisfied, based on the 
evidence Ive been provided that the sale prices Mortgage Express have set out were 
correct. I dont know why there was some variation in the prices being reported elsewhere, 
but I dont think this was because of an error by Mortgage Express or because theyve told 
Mr S and Mrs Y they got less for them than they actually did.
Ive reviewed the mortgage statements for each of the four mortgage accounts. And the sale 
proceeds appear to have been applied to those accounts promptly, once the sales were 
agreed. The amounts applied to the mortgage accounts in respect of the sales do not exactly 
match the agreed sale price  in each case they are several hundred pounds less. But 
Mortgage Express wouldve incurred costs in relation to the marketing and legal work 
involved with the sale of the properties, which wouldve been paid for from the sales 
proceeds. So, I dont think the amounts applied to the mortgage balances were incorrect.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mortgage Express has made any errors in terms 
of how it marketed and sold the properties after it was given possession of them. And I think 
the mortgage accounts have been correctly administered when this happened. So overall, I 
think the shortfall amounts that have been recorded by Mortgage Express in respect of Mr S 
and Mrs Ys accounts are correct.
Mortgage Express now pursuing the shortfall balance
As Ive explained, I think the shortfall balances have been calculated correctly. And the 
amount Mortgage Express has quoted as being outstanding appears to be correct based on 
the four original mortgage agreements between Mr S and Mrs Y and Mortgage Express and 
how the accounts were operated. So, the shortfall balance appears to be fairly owed by Mr S 
and Mrs Y to Mortgage Express.
The issue is whether it is fair that Mortgage Express is pursuing repayment of this amount 
now. This, I understand, is the main issue that Mr S and Mrs Y are unhappy about.
The last property was sold in April 2015. So, the total shortfall balance came about at that 
time. Ive seen evidence that Mortgage Express wrote to Mr S and Mrs Y about the shortfall 
balances on the separate accounts up to that time. And it doesnt appear to be in dispute 
that Mr S and Mrs Y were made aware of the amount they owed.
Mr S and Mrs Y however have said that they spoke to a senior manager at Mortgage 
Express in May 2015. And they said Mortgage Express would no longer pursue the 
outstanding balance. Mr S and Mrs Y say that its actions by now doing so, go back on this 
previous agreement, which they dont think is fair.
Mortgage Express has no record of a conversation having taken place in 2015 where this 
was agreed. It has provided its contact notes in respect of the four mortgage accounts. And 
there is no record of the call in question. There is also no evidence of the discussion being 
followed up in writing. That doesnt mean that a call didnt happen, its just to say that 
Mortgage Express has no record of it.The Ombudsman that made a decision on the extent of our powers to consider the complaint 
found on balance that a call likely did take place. 
Ive seen evidence that Mortgage Express sent several letters to Mr S and Mrs Y between 
2013 and early 2015, talking about the shortfall balances on the accounts, and asking for 
their repayment proposals.
On 5 May 2015 Mortgage Express sent a letter to Mr S and Mrs Y about the shortfall in 
respect of the property that had been sold a month earlier. It asked them to get in contact 
about this. Ive also seen an email sent by Mr S on 10 May 2015, to the email address 
Mortgage Express gave in the letter it sent a few days earlier, which appears to be in 
response to that letter. That email explained Mr S and Mrs Ys financial position and asked 
that Mortgage Express not take further action in respect of the debt owed. 
After that email, there doesnt appear to have been any further contact about the shortfall 
balance, for several years, until Mr S and Mrs Y asked Mortgage Express to write the 
balance off in late 2018. The contact notes Mortgage Express has provided show no 
attempts to get in touch with Mr S and Mrs Y during that time  either to pursue the debt or 
ask for repayment proposals. And Mortgage Express has been unable to provide copies or 
other evidence of any written correspondence sent during that time. 
Given the amount outstanding, I think it is unlikely that Mortgage Express simply forgot to 
pursue the balance. So, it appears, after Mr S requested via email that it not take any further 
action, it chose not to. It was on this basis that the Ombudsman who decided our jurisdiction 
concluded that a call likely took place between Mr S and Mortgage Express, shortly after 
hed emailed asking it to take no further action. And I think this is a reasonable conclusion.
But I think it is important to stress again, that the Ombudsman who previously looked at this 
complaint was only deciding the extent of our jurisdiction to consider the matter. And just 
because they concluded on balance that a call took place, that doesnt mean I dont need to 
think about or decide what is fair and reasonable here.  
As Ive said, I think the conclusion we reached previously that there was likely a 
conversation around May 2015, following Mr S email of 10 May 2015, is reasonable. And it 
appears that following that conversation, Mortgage Express did not take any steps to pursue 
the balance for some time. But what I have to decide is whether that means I can fairly say 
that Mortgage Express is not allowed to pursue the shortfall balance at all. And I dont think I 
can.
As Ive said there is no record of the conversation or the contents of the call, from 2015 that 
Mr S and Mrs Y say means Mortgage Express shouldnt be pursuing them, beyond Mr S 
testimony. And this conversation apparently took place several years ago.
Mr S has said that Mortgage Express agreed not to pursue he and Mrs Y for the shortfall 
debt. And it does appear to have taken no further action after that time. But I dont think I can 
say that Mortgage Express agreed to write off the balance in 2015. Because, if it had, Mr S 
and Mrs Y wouldnt have asked it to consider doing so in 2018. So, I think they were aware 
that the balance was still owed, even if Mortgage Express was not, at the time, taking any 
steps to pursue it.
And I dont think there is enough for me to safely conclude the exact details of whatever 
agreement was made. Mr S says that Mortgage Express agreed not to pursue the balance. 
But even if I accept the conversation was along these lines, I dont know if Mortgage Express 
meant this arrangement to be temporary. Or if it said this in error.The person Mr S spoke to mayve said Mortgage Express would not take steps to pursue the 
balance at the time. But it couldve intended to revisit the position if Mr S and Mrs Ys 
circumstances changed at a later date. And there couldve been a misunderstanding about 
this in the call. Or the person that Mr S spoke to couldve made a mistake and said that 
Mortgage Express would not pursue the balance, when this would in fact only be temporary. 
And where an incorrect statement is made by a business, we wouldnt look to make that 
incorrect statement true or require it to honour something that was said in error. 
Mortgage Express denies agreeing that the balance would not be pursued  and the fact that 
it wasnt written off, does to me suggest, it was always its intention to revisit things at a later 
date.
So, in summary, while I know Mr S and Mrs Y do not agree and will be disappointed by my 
findings, I cant fairly say, based on the limited information available, Mortgage Express 
forfeited all of its rights to request repayment of the significant shortfall debt owed to it. I 
accept it mayve misled Mr S and Mrs Y into thinking it would not pursue the matter further  
either through a miscommunication when speaking to them or through its actions in not 
pursuing the balance for some time. And this is unfortunate. But that isnt enough for me to 
reasonably say Mortgage Express has no right to pursue the balance, which is owed in 
relation to the mortgage agreements previously made.
And as a result, I cant fairly say Mortgage Express requests for repayment proposals or the 
actions it has taken to pursue the balance more recently, are unreasonable.
I would add though, that Id expect Mortgage Express to consider Mr S and Mrs Ys financial 
circumstances when discussing the outstanding shortfall. Theyve explained that their 
circumstances are unlikely to ever improve and so there is little prospect of the debt being 
repaid. And Id expect Mortgage Express to take this into account, act fairly, and think 
carefully about all of the options available. 
I dont doubt it was upsetting for Mr S and Mrs Y to learn, in 2019, that what they believed  
that Mortgage Express was not going to be pursuing the balance  was incorrect. And I think 
this is likely to have caused them distress. And I think Mortgage Express is responsible for 
some of this confusion and the ensuing distress  primarily through not communicating with 
them clearly between May 2015 and November 2018. So, I think itd be fair for it to make a 
payment to Mr S and Mrs y for the distress caused.
Taking everything into account, I think our Investigators suggestion that Mortgage Express 
pay Mr S and Mrs Y £500 for the distress caused, which I understand Mortgage Express has 
agreed to, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right I order Mortgage Express to pay Mr S and Mrs Y £500.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman