DRN-3797903
The complaint
Ms B is complaining that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her credit card account.
What happened
Ms B had a credit card account with HSBC.
In September 2016, September 2017 and September 2018 HSBC sent Ms B persistent debt 
letters which explained that she was only making minimum, or close to minimum, payments 
to her account. And that this would lead to her paying more in interest as it would take her 
longer to clear her balance. In April 2019 they wrote a first persistent debt letter to her to say 
she was paying more in interest and charges than she was repaying  and if this didnt 
change over the following 18 months they may cancel or restrict her account.
Ms B increased her repayments above the minimum repayment. In January 2020 HSBC 
wrote to Ms B to explain the position had improved, but it would monitor things for the next 
nine months. If Ms B repaid more towards what she borrowed rather than in interest and 
charges added since April 2019 no further action would be taken - but if not, further steps 
such as cancelling or restricting her account may be taken.
In March 2020 Ms B contacted HSBC to explain she was in financial difficulties due to the 
pandemic. She asked HSBC to consider suspending her payments for March and April. 
HSBC replied to Ms B agreeing to suspend payments on her account for 60 days, until Ms B 
could submit proposals for repayment, and they also said theyd suspend interest. They also 
placed a block on Ms B using her card, although they didnt tell Ms B this at the time.
Ms B says she delivered a hand-written letter to HSBC around August 2021 asking for the 
account to be returned to normal. She continued to make the minimum payments, and 
interest remained suspended.
Ms Bs account was closed and passed to collections in February 2021. Her card expired in 
March 2021 and interest remained suspended.
In August 2021 Ms B became aware that her account wasnt in use when a regular payment
wasnt paid. She contacted HSBC to ask why her account had been suspended without her
being notified. HSBC replied to say they thought the block was a mistake, and theyd
arrange for the account to be reinstated and a new card to be sent to her. They paid Ms
B £75 for the distress and inconvenience.
After further investigation, HSBC replied to Ms B again. They explained that the previous
adviser shed spoken to had made a mistake, and her account couldnt be unblocked. They
said theyd suspended her account in line with their policy to implement the Financial
Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) guidelines about persistent debt, because shed only been
making the minimum monthly payment. They paid Ms B another £75 for the incorrect
information she was given.
In October 2021 HSBC started to apply interest to Ms Bs account again. And on 2 October
2021 they again sent another stage one persistent debt letter explaining that she was
paying more in interest and charges than she was repaying.
Ms B brought her complaint to us, and it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our
investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint, because she thought Ms B had benefited
financially from interest being suspended for around 18 months. She thought the distress
and inconvenience payment Ms B had received, of £150 in total, was fair.
Ms B says she thinks HSBC have decided to close her account because of her age and the
likelihood of her repaying the debt in the pandemic. She says shes willing to repay the
interest she would have paid during the time it was suspended if HSBC will reinstate her
account, as shes been inconvenienced by not having access to a credit card.
I asked HSBC for some more detailed reasoning about why they suspended Ms Bs credit
card account under the persistent debt process. They replied to say theyre offering to refund
the interest they applied to Ms Bs account after October 2021, and will stop further interest
being applied. But theyre unable to reinstate the account and it wouldnt be responsible for
them to do so.
Ms Bs complaint was passed to me for review and a decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 31 August 2022. This is what I said. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think HSBC have treated Ms B fairly here, so Im going to ask them
to put things right.
Its not particularly clear to me what the reasoning is for Ms Bs account being suspended
under the persistent debt policy now, and it doesnt help that HSBC seem confused about
whats been happening with Ms Bs account themselves. Looking at everything, I think the
ongoing suspension of the account was most likely prompted by HSBCs persistent debt
process, in line with what theyve explained in their final response letter.
But, despite me asking them to, I dont think HSBC have clearly explained why the persistent
debt process triggered the suspension of Ms Bs account here, which means at the moment I
cant say that the process has been applied fairly in Ms Bs case. Ill explain why  and Id
invite HSBC to comment further on this point in response to my provisional decision.
In 2018 the FCA issued rules for businesses to follow where a customer is in persistent debt.
Persistent debt is when a customer has paid more in interest, fees and charges than theyve
repaid towards the capital they owe over the previous 18 months, and businesses should
assess whether a customer falls within this definition at least once a month.
The rules say, in summary, that where a business assesses that a customer is in persistent
debt, they should write to them at the 18 month stage, the 27 month stage and the 36 month
stage. The 36 month letter should set out options to the consumer for increasing their
repayments, and if the consumer is unable or unwilling to increase their repayment the
business should generally suspend use of the credit card.
I can see that HSBC sent Ms B letters in April 2019 and January 2020  it looks like these
are the 18 month and 27 month letters under the persistent debt process. HSBC said theyd
monitor Ms Bs account for another nine months following their letter of January 2020  andif interest and charges exceeded the payments Ms B made over the previous 18 months (so
between April 2019 and September 2020) theyd consider options such as suspending the
account.
Ive looked at the figures from the statements HSBCs provided and I can see that between
April 2019 and September 2020 Ms B was charged around £565 in interest and repaid
around £1,938. She was still using the card, and spent around £725 during this time. But the
overall balance reduced from around £3,557 to £2,949.
This includes the period interest was suspended prior to September 2020. But even if
interest hadnt been suspended from March 2020, as of September 2020 Ms B would still
have repaid more than shed been charged in interest (which would have been in the region
of £240 for this six-month period.) So, I dont think it would have been reasonable for HSBC
to have taken any further action to suspend the account under the persistent debt process at
that time. And before the pandemic lockdown caused Ms B financial problems in March
2020, she was taking steps to pay more than her minimum payment.
HSBC have maintained theyve suspended Ms Bs credit card account due to persistent
debt. But as Ive explained, its not clear from the information theyve given me what the
trigger was for the action of suspending the account under the persistent debt process,
because after the letter of April 2019 Ms M took steps to increase her payments above the
minimum payment in May, July and October 2019. Although there was some spending on
the account, the overall balance reduced by around £600 over this period. So, as far as I can
see her account would no longer have fallen under the definition of a persistent debt.
And in any event if HSBC were following the persistent debt process they should have sent
Ms B a 36 month letter to set out her options for repayment before taking action such as
suspending her account due to persistent debt. And theyve told me they didnt send Ms B
that letter. HSBC have also recently sent Ms B another stage one persistent debt letter after
suspending her account which I wouldnt expect to see if her account had already been
suspended due to persistent debt.
Im glad to see HSBC acted positively in suspending interest on Ms Bs account when she let
them know she was in difficulty due to her work being affected by the pandemic lockdown.
And I dont think it was unreasonable for them to suspend use of her credit card temporarily
at that point.
But Ms B did continue to make the minimum payments despite HSBC agreeing to suspend
them. And she says she told HSBC shortly after her initial letter that her financial situation
had improved after the initial shock of lockdown to her business and she wanted to continue
to run her account as normal. And so I think after 60 days it would have been reasonable for 
HSBC to have reassessed the position of her account. I havent yet seen any clear reason or
explanation as to why at that point they wouldnt have reinstated use of her credit card and
recommenced charging interest if theyd reassessed things as they should have.
I dont think HSBCs error in not re-applying interest earlier after they didnt receive any
repayment proposals means that its fair that Ms Bs credit card account should remain
suspended now. These are two separate things. Ms B has benefited financially through
interest not being applied, but she didnt ask for this benefit, and wasnt aware of it. Ms Bs
also made it clear shes willing to repay the interest she would have been charged if the
credit card account can be reinstated now, which seems reasonable to me.
Overall, I cant see that HSBC have demonstrated that theyve correctly followed the
persistent debt process here to lead to the suspension of Ms Bs account. And unless they
can provide me with anything else to show that they have, or any other clear and validreason why the account wouldnt, in any event, have been reinstated, I think they should put
Ms B back in the position she would have been in if theyd reinstated her account after the
initial 60 day suspension due to her financial difficulties during lockdown.
I can also see that Ms B has been inconvenienced and distressed by this situation. She
thinks HSBC are discriminating against her due to her age, and shes very upset by this. I
can understand why shed feel this way, but Id like to reassure her that Ive not seen
anything to suggest that HSBC have discriminated against her.
But I cant make a legal finding on discrimination  I can only decide if HSBC have treated
Ms B fairly and reasonably. And what Ive seen so far leads me to think they havent done so
here. So, I think they should pay Ms B a further £250 to recognise the impact this has had on
her.
I asked both parties to reply to my provisional decision by 30 September 2022 if they wanted 
to add anything else.
Ms B replied to say she accepted my provisional decision.
HSBC replied on 6 October 2022 to say, in summary, that they now thought Ms Bs account 
hadnt been closed due to persistent debt, and in fact the account had been marked out of 
persistent debt in October 2020. But they hadnt yet established why it had been closed and 
would look into this further.
They also said their system wouldnt allow them to reinstate Ms Bs account. They said a 
new credit scored application would be required and if it was declined they wouldnt be able 
to set up a new card.
We gave HSBC until 9 November 2022 to provide their full response. But theyve still not 
provided this. To be fair to both parties, and taking into account the extra time HSBC have 
already had to respond to my provisional decision, Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I havent seen anything in the responses from either party that would lead me to 
change my provisional decision to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
I think HSBC have had enough time to investigate why Ms Bs account was closed. As Ive 
explained in my provisional decision, theyve told us throughout the investigation that Ms Bs 
account was closed due to persistent debt. Theyve now told us this wasnt in fact the case; 
but they still havent been able to explain why the account was closed. In the absence of an 
explanation it doesnt seem unreasonable to conclude that the account was closed by 
mistake. 
And I still think a fair resolution would be for HSBC to put Ms B in the position she would 
have been in but for the mistake; in other words, to reinstate her credit card account in the 
way Ive explained. I do appreciate that HSBC have said this is difficult for them to arrange 
on their system, but this doesnt change my decision that this is a fair way to resolve things. 
I should clarify that Ms Bs credit file should not be detrimentally affected by the account 
being reinstated. For example, if HSBC do carry out a new search of Ms Bs credit file to reinstate the account (as theyve indicated they will) they should arrange for any record of it 
to be deleted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Reinstate Ms Bs credit card account on the same terms as it was held before it was 
suspended, including use of the card;
Rework the account so that interest was only suspended for 60 days from when Ms B 
contacted HSBC about her difficulties due to lockdown; and
Pay Ms B a further £250 in compensation for the impact this has had on her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman