DRN-3381733
The complaint
Mr G complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited irresponsibly provided him with a hire 
purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2017, Mr G acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Startline. Mr G paid a deposit of £1,950 and was required to make 59 monthly repayments of 
£483 followed by a final payment of £493. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£30,961.
Mr G says that Startline didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Startline didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment of Mr Gs credit worthiness which included gathering 
information through the application process, a credit check and obtaining bank statements 
from Mr Gs accounts. Mr Gs agreement was terminated in October 2019 however it was 
agreed that Mr G could keep the car if he maintained payments. Startline says that the last 
payment received from Mr G was in July 2021. Mr G still has the car and I understand there 
is a court hearing scheduled for May 2022.
Mr G has raised other concerns about his agreement, specifically relating to hidden 
commission and this is being dealt with in a separate complaint.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Startline ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr G.
Startline didnt agree and said that Mr G applied for the finance with a stated monthly income 
of £3,500 and this was confirmed through an external affordability tool. It didnt accept our 
investigators calculation of monthly income of £1,851 saying this didnt include some larger 
receipts which given the nature of Mr Gs income would reasonably be included. It said that 
Mr Gs bank statements showed he was transferring funds to a savings account and paying 
for high-end purchases which didnt suggest he was in financial difficulty. Startline said that 
Mr Gs material payment issues coincided with the start of lockdown which couldnt have 
been foreseen. It noted that the credit search showed that Mr G had two small defaults and 
two county court judgements, and these were all settled in early 2017.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Startline will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think Startline gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr G about his ability to repay. I say this because it gathered information 
through the application process about Mr Gs income and employment and requested copies 
of his banks statements which showed his income and expenses. It also carried out a credit 
check. It has explained this recorded some adverse information but that the defaults and 
county court judgements had been settled prior to the finance being provided. However, just 
because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a 
fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Startline has said that Mr G recorded a monthly income of £3,500 and this was validated 
with the use of an external data source. While I note this, Mr G was self-employed and 
Startline acknowledged that his income could vary. It requested copies of Mr Gs bank 
statements and so I think it would have been reasonable to check his income in the bank 
statements to ensure the figure used was reasonable. 
I have looked through the bank statements and Mr G had his work income account (Account 
1) and another account (Account 2) into which he received payments. He also had a 
property income account (Account 3) which he has explained was an additional source of 
income. In the three months leading up to the agreement (April, May and June 2017) Mr G 
received payments from multiple sources into Account 1. These averaged around £1,300 a 
month. Startline has noted a large payment made to Mr G in March 2017, of £35,000. Mr G 
has explained this was received by him but then used to pay suppliers. I can see this 
payment was transferred to another of Mr Gs accounts and that his accounts didnt show 
this amount in his accounts at the start of April which supports Mr Gs comments. 
Looking at the transactions in Account 2, these show payments which appear to be related 
to Mr Gs work as well as some personal expenditure. He also received payments which 
appear to be work related. These averaged around £400 a month. However, the payments 
into this account were more than offset by the payments out of the account. Account 2 had a 
positive balance of £4,700 at the start of April 2017 and by end June 2017 it was operating 
within the overdraft limit with a negative balance of around £3,600. I note the comments 
Startline has made about Mr G making large discretionary payments and I can see he made 
two payments within the three months totalling £2,670. I appreciate these dont suggest 
Mr G was in financial difficulties. However, taking these payments out of the calculation still 
shows that Mr G reduced his money in Account 2 by around £5,700 in the three month 
period showing a significant reduction in the funds available.
In the three months leading up to the agreement, Mr G received an average income of 
around £580 into Account 3. This account was used to make some discretionary payments 
(such as to the national lottery) but the main transfers out were to another of Mr Gs 
accounts.
The bank statements also show Mr Gs expenditure. I can see that he transferred money into 
another account (Account 4) from which the majority of his living expenses were paid. In the 
months leading up to the agreement, Mr Gs expenses paid from Account 4 averaged 
around £1,600. This included payments for rent (£1,000 although Mr G has said he was due 
to pay £1,500 but was allowed to make reduced payments), utilities, council tax, insurance 
and other credit commitments.
Mr G had a savings account (Account 5) which was mainly funded by transfers from his 
other accounts. There were a few payments made from this account for expenses such as 
payments to supermarkets, but this was generally used as a savings account with transfers 
in and out. The balance on this account at the start of April was around £3,800 and had 
reduced to £1,780 by 7 July 2017.Based on the above, Mr G had income through Account 1 of around £1,300 a month and 
further income into Account 3 of around £600, giving a monthly income of £1,900 against his 
expenses through Account 4 of £1,600. While Mr G received income of around £400 into his 
Account 2 this was more than offset by his expenses and Mr G had other expenses from 
other accounts which further reduced his disposable income. As the repayments on Mr Gs 
agreement were for £483 these werent affordable. I further think that the significant 
reduction in Account 2 and Account 5 in the months leading up to the agreement should 
have raised concerns that Mr G was spending more than he was receiving and that 
providing further credit wouldnt be sustainable for him.
In conclusion, while Mr G was able to maintain his repayments for a period of time, I think 
the information available to Startline at the time of the finance application showed the new 
agreement wasnt affordable for Mr G. Startline therefore didnt make a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
As I dont think Startline ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. However, Mr G has now had 
use of the car for around 57 months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not 
persuaded that monthly repayments of over £483 a month are a fair reflection of what fair 
usage would be. This is because a significant proportion of those repayments went towards 
repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, Mr 
Gs likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have been if 
he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr G should pay is £280 for each 
month he had use of the car. This means Startline can only ask him to repay a total of 
£15,960.
To settle Mr Gs complaint, Startline should do the following:
As the agreement has already been terminated, there is no need to end the 
agreement.
Collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Mr G has made, less £15,960 for fair usage. 
oIf Mr G has paid more than the fair usage figure, Startline should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr G has paid less than the fair usage figure, Startline should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Startline has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Startline Motor Finance Limited to put things right in the 
manner set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman