DRN-3179905
The summary and background to the complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about two loans taken out with GE Money. The second loan 
was subsequently taken over by Elderbridge, so it is responsible for answering this 
complaint.
In July 2007 Mr and Mrs O entered into an agreement with Club La Costa (CLC) to buy trial 
membership of its holiday club. It was sold by a CLC affiliated business, Leading Resorts 
Limited. Mr and Mrs O paid for membership with a small deposit and a point of sale loan 
from GE Money for £3,500. CLC was named as the intermediary on the loan agreement.1
The following year, in January 2008, Mr and Mrs O took out a different level of CLC 
membership. Again membership was sold by Leading Resorts Limited and paid for by a loan 
from GE Money. This loan was for £23,684.08, which covered the cost of CLC membership, 
refinanced the earlier loan and also included a payment protection insurance policy. As with 
the earlier loan, CLC was named as the intermediary on the loan agreement. It was this loan 
that was subsequently taken over by Elderbridge.
In May 2018, Mr and Mrs O instructed solicitors to complain to Elderbridge on their behalf 
about the loan, in particular about how it was sold to them and to give notice that they could 
make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). It was said that 
there were several misrepresentations made about the rights and obligations of CLC 
membership and Elderbridge could be liable for those misrepresentations under s.75 CCA . 
In addition it was said that the interest rates of the two loans were not adequately explained 
to Mr and Mrs O, nor was there anyone from GE Money present at the sale to make sure the 
loans were suitable for them. Mr and Mrs Os solicitors said they required Elderbridge to 
provide evidence that CLC was authorised and not in breach of section 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
Elderbridge responded to say it thought the complaint had been brought too late under the 
rules in place that set out how it needs to handle complaints, so it didnt need to answer this 
particular complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it was brought too late, 
therefore our service didnt have the power to consider its merits. Mr and Mrs O disagreed 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again by an ombudsman.
The complaint was passed to me to consider and I issued a provisional decision. I explained 
that I had considered all of the available evidence and arguments provided by Mr and Mrs O 
and Elderbridge to decide whether we were able to consider this complaint. And where there 
were parts of the complaint that can be considered, I looked at all of the evidence and 
arguments to decide what was, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
I noted that Mr and Mrs O raised a number of concerns to Elderbridge when they first 
1 Im not sure that Elderbridge would be responsible for answering a complaint about this loan, as I 
think it only took over responsibility for the second loan. For the reasons I will come to, I dont need to 
make a finding on that for the purposes of this decision.
complained, mentioning both the way GE Money lent to them as well as actions of CLC that 
Elderbridge could be responsible for under the CCA. But I explained that this service will 
only look at the parts of a complaint that have been referred to us to consider, so I looked at 
exactly what Mr and Mrs Os solicitors had actually asked us to look into.
The substance of this complaint brought to our service was confirmed in a letter from Mr and 
Mrs Os solicitors in April 2020. They said that CLC made various representations at the time 
of sale, but those representations should not have been made as CLC were not authorised 
to broker the loan. They argued that, as the loan was entered into by an unauthorised 
broker, the loan agreement was unenforceable. Mr and Mrs Os solicitors also said that 
certain parts of the Limitation Act 1980 meant Mr and Mrs O had more time to bring their 
compliant as they didnt have knowledge of what they say went wrong. It was confirmed on 
Mr and Mrs Os behalf that they were not raising a claim under s.75 CCA.
After our investigator issued their view of say that the complaint had been brought too late, 
Mr and Mrs Os solicitors argued that the complaint was not out of time. They said that 
because Mr and Mrs O were not aware at the time of the loan that the credit intermediaries 
were not authorised and the loan was entered into contrary to FSMA. They also confirmed 
that there was a complaint that Elderbridge had pursued Mr and Mrs O for payment in the 
last six years, even though it should not have pursued any repayment of the debt.
In light of what I had seen, I explained that I thought it would be helpful if I set out how our 
service looks at complaints. There are set rules (the DISP Rules in the FCA Handbook) that 
determine the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. The DISP Rules explain that 
consumers must bring complaints to our service within certain time limits and those rules can 
look similar to the limitation periods in the Limitation Act 1980. But it is the DISP Rules that 
govern when we have the power to look at complaints, not the Limitation Act 1980.
I explained that the rules I must apply (DISP 2.8.2R) say that, when a business doesnt 
agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after the event complained about 
or, if later, more than three years after the complainant (in this case, Mr and Mrs O) knew, or 
ought reasonably to have known, they had reason to complain.
Mr and Mrs O said the loan wasnt sold properly, in particular the broker wasnt properly 
authorised. This meant that Mr and Mrs O had six years from the date that GE Money 
decided to lend to them to complain. That took place in July 2007 and January 2008, so Mr 
and Mrs O had until July 2013 to bring their complaint about the first loan and January 2014 
about the second. But they didnt complain until May 2018. So it was clear the complaint was 
made more than six years after the event Mr and Mrs O were complaining about. 
But I noted that  DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six 
years to complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, 
or they ought reasonably to have been aware, that they had cause to. Mr and Mrs O said 
they only became aware they could complain in 2017 when they first instructed their 
solicitors and the complaint was made within three years of this date. I thought about that 
further.
I thought there were some elements of Mr and Mrs Os complaint that they would have been 
aware of at the time of the sale. For example, I thought they would have known the interest 
rate of the loans, and the length of the loans, as that was printed on the face of the credit 
agreement. I also thought they would have been aware that nobody from GE Money was 
present when they took out the loans.
Mr and Mrs Os solicitors pointed to s.19 FSMA, which sets out the general prohibition that 
certain regulated financial activities can only be carried out by regulated people or people with exceptions. They said that CLC were not regulated by the FSA (as it was then) at the 
relevant time to broker the loan Mr and Mrs O took out. And this was not something they 
found out about until much later and they could not have reasonably been aware of until their 
solicitors told them about this. It followed that, if this was the case and it meant the loan was 
unenforceable, Elderbridge should not have pursued them for payment in the intervening 
years.
I thought about this part of their complaint. I thought for Mr and Mrs O to have been aware, 
or ought to have reasonably been aware, that they had cause for complaint, they needed to 
know there was a problem with CLCs authorisation, that this problem caused them a loss, 
that this was the responsibility of another party and that party was Elderbridge. Having 
considered all of the circumstances, I didnt think Mr and Mrs O were aware (or should have 
reasonably been aware) of these facts until they spoke to their solicitors  I didnt have any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs O should have questioned the brokers authorisation earlier. 
It followed that I thought this part of their complaint about the enforceability of the loan was 
brought in time and that I did have the power to consider it.
I also thought there was sufficient information to go on to consider Mr and Mrs Os 
complaint. At the time of the two sales, the regulation of consumer credit businesses was 
undertaken by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and businesses undertaking this work 
would have OFT licenses. The regulation of this moved to the FCA on 1 April 2014. I saw 
that both CLC and Leading Resorts Limited held OFT consumer credit authorisation at the 
time of the sales.2  So I didnt think there was any breach of s.19 FSMA when these loans 
were arranged. It followed that I didnt think Elderbridge had done anything wrong in seeking 
repayment of the second loan and I didnt intend to uphold this complaint.
Elderbridge responded to say it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs Os solicitors responded to ask me to consider the matter again. They said, in 
summary:
I was wrong to conclude that Mr and Mrs O had brought their claim too late. They 
accepted that s.5 of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) provided for a six year period of 
limitation, but exceptions existed such as s.32 LA, which extended limitation where a 
fact relevant to a claimants right of action has been deliberately concealed from 
them by the defendant. Here Mr and Mrs O were sold the loan under a guarantee 
that they would enjoy luxury stays and they werent properly advised about the 
implications of the loans, including the interest rates. This evidences an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs O and Elderbridge.
I have not properly considered any claim under s.140A CCA and any such claim 
would be within the limitation period due to the operation of s.32 LA, as well as for 
other specified reasons.
CLC were in breach of parts of the Resort Development Organisation (RDO) Code 
of Conduct that set out how timeshares and certain other holiday products should be 
sold. In particular, the terms of membership were misleading and it was sold to Mr 
and Mrs O as an investment in real estate.
I have been asked to take into account another decision issued by myself where I 
found in favour of a consumer who was in a similar position to Mr and Mrs O.
I was wrong to conclude that I didnt have the power to consider all of the complaint 
2 CLC also subsequently became FCA registered on 1 April 2014.as Mr and Mrs O didnt realise they had cause to complaint until they took legal 
advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr and Mrs Os solicitors response I think there may be some confusion 
about what I said in my provisional decision, so I think it would be helpful to set out in more 
detail what complaint I was asked to decide and how our service looks at complaints.
Our service is unlike a court, in that we look into complaints, not causes of action. That 
means I must consider the substance of a complaint, not the precise way in which it has 
been presented. But when a consumer is represented by a solicitor, I would expect them to 
set out the substance of the complaint clearly. So Ive looked at all of the correspondence 
between Mr and Mrs Os solicitors and both our service and Elderbridge to work out what the 
complaint was about.
Mr and Mrs Os solicitors wrote to Elderbridge in May 2018. They set out five separate 
misrepresentations that were alleged to induce Mr and Mrs O into taking out CLC 
membership and the GE Money loan. They also said Mr and Mrs O hadnt been told of the 
effect of the high rate of interest on their loan or that no representative from GE Money was 
present at the sale. In addition, they asked Elderbridge for confirmation that CLC was 
approved and authorised to broker loans as was required under s.19 FSMA.
The May 2018 letter said as this is a claim which likely includes a head of relief under s.75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, we are entitled to bring GE into proceedings and we 
intend to do so. I take from that sentence that Mr and Mrs O werent bringing a s.75 CCA 
claim to Elderbridge at that stage, only indicating their intention to do so. No other provisions 
of the CCA were mentioned in this letter.
Mr and Mrs Os solicitors wrote to Elderbridge again in October 2018 to ask it to consider the 
claim again, taking into account sections of the LA. They reminded Elderbridge that it could 
be liable to answer CLCs misrepresentations under s.75 CCA.
Ive seen Elderbridges response that was sent to Mr and Mrs O in November 2018 and it 
simply says that it thought any complaint that the loan was mis-sold was out of time under 
the DISP rules  Elderbridge didnt comment on any potential claim under the CCA.
When the complaint was first brought to our service in February 2019 it was described as 
relating to the misrepresentation in relation to the purchase of a timeshare interest. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Os solicitors set out the following concerns:
CLC subjected Mr and Mrs O to pressured selling
The benefits of the timeshare were misrepresented 
Mr and Mrs O had a claim against Elderbridge under s.75 CCA 
The relationship between Elderbridge and Mr and Mrs O was unfair under s.140A 
CCA due to the relationship between CLC and GE Money, the way in which 
Elderbridge sought to enforce the loan agreement and the manner in which the sale 
was made on behalf of GE Money.No credit check was undertaken on Mr and Mrs O.
The terms of any purported agreement were so uncertain, it was doubtful they gave 
rise to any binding contractual obligations. But even if they did, they could be set 
aside due to misrepresentation and/or undue influence.
In February 2020, one of our investigators wrote to Mr and Mrs Os solicitors to say that the 
complaint letter sent to Elderbridge didnt make a claim under s.75 CCA. He asked them if 
they were making a s.75 CCA claim and, if so, if they had made such a claim to Elderbridge. 
Mr and Mrs Os solicitors confirmed that they were not pursuing a s.75 CCA claim and that 
they were complaining about the sales in 2007 and 2008.
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs Os solicitors wrote to us to set out the parameters of the 
complaint. It was said that the complaint was about the mis-sale of the loans. They said that 
CLC should not have been making any representations about the timeshare or loans as they 
were not authorised as required under FSMA. And, as CLC were not authorised, Mr and Mrs 
O were claiming against Elderbridge under s.26 FSMA to recover what had been paid under 
an unenforceable credit agreement. Reference was made to s.14A LA, which was said to 
extend time to bring any claim for a misrepresentation and it was said that s.2 LA applied as 
Mr and Mrs O suffered a loss every time they made a loan repayment which effectively 
restarted the clock for limitation purposes. Mr and Mrs Os solicitors said that they were only 
aware of their potential claim under s.26 FSMA after they received legal advice and, under 
s.14A LA, they then had three years to bring a claim. It was confirmed that Mr and Mrs O 
had not instructed their solicitors at any stage to make a claim under s.75 CCA. But they did 
say the refence to s.75 CCA was to highlight the unfair relationship between Mr and Mrs O 
and Elderbridge.
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs Os solicitors wrote to our service again. They explained that the 
first time Mr and Mrs O were aware the loan may have been mis-sold to them was in 2018, 
following which they instructed solicitors to represent them (I note this contradicts what had 
been said elsewhere, as originally it was said Mr and Mrs O only realised their loan may 
have been mis-sold after they spoke to their solicitors).
Following further correspondence, Mr and Mrs Os solicitors wrote again in June 2020 to 
explain that the complaint was about both the sale of the loan, but also the way in which 
Elderbridge has sought to enforce the loan agreement. It was said to determine the fairness 
of the enforcement of the loan, our service needed to consider the lawfulness (and fairness) 
of the loan agreement and some caselaw was cited on this point explain how courts look at 
similar claims under s.140A CCA.. 
In response to that letter, our investigator explained that he had not seen any complaint 
about how Elderbridge had attempted to enforce the loan having been made to Elderbridge. 
He thought the complaint was, in effect, that the loan shouldnt have been enforced as it was 
brokered by an unauthorised business, rather than any specific point with the way 
Elderbridge had tried to get payment. Our investigator explained that if there was a 
complaint about the methods of enforcement, Mr and Mrs O would need to make a 
complaint in the first instance to Elderbridge. Mr and Mrs O confirmed that they were making 
a complaint about the enforcement of the debt, in particular that it was causing them distress 
and that the debt was disputed.
Having reviewed the correspondence, I think there are a number of possible things that Mr 
and Mrs O could have complained about and in a number of different ways. I will consider 
each in turn.
I dont think Mr and Mrs O have made any complaint to Elderbridge under s.75 CCA. Although that provision was referred to in the original letter of claim sent in May 2018, I dont 
think a s.75 CCA claim was formally made at that point. As it was later confirmed to our 
service that we were not asked to consider such a complaint, I will make no further comment 
on it.
I cant see that any claim has been made to Elderbridge under s.140A CCA. That provision 
deals with unfair debtor-creditor relationships and it was not mentioned in Mr and Mrs Os 
original letter of claim or any of the other correspondence sent to Elderbridge. It was 
referenced in the letter sent to our service in February 2019, but at that stage I think the 
substance of the complaint was that the loan was mis-sold for the reasons set out above and 
that it was unenforceable as the broker did not have the proper authorisations. It wasnt until 
Mr and Mrs Os solicitors responded to my provisional decision that the substance of any 
s.140A CCA claim was properly set out  that the timeshare agreement was sold as an 
investment in real estate and in breach of the RDO Code of Conduct. 
As the substance of a s.140A CCA claim has never been made directly to Elderbridge, I 
cant see that there is any dispute for me to consider. If Mr and Mrs O wish for our service to 
consider this complaint, they need to first make such a complaint to Elderbridge and then 
they can refer their complaint to our service if they are not satisfied with the response. But 
without a dispute on this point, I wont comment further.
There is a claim that the loan was mis-sold for a number of reasons, including that no 
employee of GE Money was present at the sale and the effect of the level of interest hadnt 
been properly explained. The sale of the loan is a regulated financial activity, so our service 
has the jurisdiction to consider complaints about it. But, as I set out in my provisional 
decision, there are certain time limits that apply in bringing any such complaint. Those time 
limits are contained in the DISP Rules and are not the same as those contained in the LA 
that Mr and Mrs Os solicitors have referred to  in coming to my provisional decision I didnt 
rely on s.5 LA as was suggested. As I said in my provisional decision, I think Mr and Mrs O 
would have been aware of the matters that gave rise to that complaint at the time the loan 
was taken out, so I thought they were too late in brining that part of their complaint. And I 
havent seen anything that makes me change my mind from that position.
But I did think that Mr and Mrs Os complaint that the loan was unenforceable by 
Elderbridge, and that no demands for payment should have been made, was brought within 
the time limits that apply, so I have agreed with them that I can consider that part of the 
complaint. But, for the reasons previously explained, I think the broker held the relevant OFT 
authorisation at the time of the sale and so I dont think the loan was unenforceable for the 
reasons put forward by Mr and Mrs O. In addition, I cant see why they say Elderbridge has 
acted unfairly in attempting to enforce the loan, but for the complaint that it was 
unenforceable for the reason of the brokers authorisation. So I dont think their complaint 
about that issue should be upheld. 
Finally, I have been asked to take into account another decision that I have issued that, it 
has been suggested, means Mr and Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. Each complaint 
turns on its own facts and no two complaints are identical. So just because in another 
complaint I, or another ombudsman, have decided that a consumers complaint should be 
upheld, it doesnt follow that Mr and Mrs Os complaint should also be upheld. As I have set 
out above, Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what I find to 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Os complaint. And for the 
reasons set out in this decision, I do not uphold it.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint against Elderbridge 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman