DRN-2393239
The complaint
Mr C complains Morses Club PLC (Morses Club) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr C took four home collected loans between October 2015 and July 2016. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans from Morses in the table below.
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Received Date Actual Repayment Date
1 £200 23/10/2015 22/01/2016
2 £400 22/01/2016 12/07/2016
3 £200 29/04/2016 *
4 £400 12/07/2016 *
*I understand Morses Club has sold the outstanding balance for loans 3 and 4 to a third 
party. Mr C has told us that he subsequently repaid both loans.  
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Morses to have granted the home collected 
loans. He thought that the checks completed by Morses Club for each loan were 
proportionate and from what he could see it wasnt irresponsible to lend. 
Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators assessment. Mr C feels his loans shouldnt have been
lent. In summary, he has said that:
the loans were not affordable as some went to a debt collector;
his bank statements show the amount of outstanding credit he was paying for;
Mr Cs outgoings were high because of his credit commitments;
Morses is getting away with preying on a vulnerable customer. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses Club had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses Clubs checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses Club should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C.
Morses Club was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his instalment
loans  not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able
to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. The
Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
loans 1 and 2
Loan 1 (£200) was due to be repaid through 20 weekly instalments of £15. Mr C declared a 
weekly income of £372 and weekly expenditure of £324 for rent/mortgage, other loans 
repayments, utility bills, food and transport. Loan 2 (£400), lent on the same day that loan 1 
was repaid, was due to be repaid over 33 weekly instalments of £20. At this time Mr C 
declared a higher income (£445) and fewer expenses (£145).
Considering the level of lending and it being early in the lending relationship, I think the
checks for these two loans went far enough. And based on what Mr C said about his income 
and expenditure, Im satisfied that each loan wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable to 
Morses.
Morses Club also carried out a credit check although I understand it hasnt kept a copy of the 
results. Mr C has been able to provide a copy of a recent credit report. The information a 
consumer might see though, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very 
different to that seen by a lender at the time of application. A lender might only see a small 
portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not 
be up to date. 
But having considered the information I can see in the report Mr C has provided, I dont think 
there is anything which wouldve affected Morses Clubs lending decision. I can see that Mr C did have some significant difficulties, for example there are defaulted accounts. But this 
was after all his loans were lent. There are also records of missed payments and a payment 
arrangement, but again, these were applied after the loans were agreed. So, overall, I dont 
think it was wrong for Morses Club to have provided these loans to Mr C. 
loans 3 and 4
I appreciate Mr C was unable to repay these loans on time and they were referred to a third 
party to collect. From what I can see, Mr Cs repayment difficulties didnt arise until 
December 2016. So, when he applied for loans 2, 3 and 4, his repayment history at that time 
wouldnt, of itself, have alerted Morses Club to question whether it should continue to lend or 
complete additional checks. Mr C hadnt, for example, defaulted on the loans, paid any late 
fees or been unable to make regular payments before each lending decision was made. 
Overall, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to indicate that Morses Club ought to have built
up a more detailed picture of Mr Cs finances for loans 3 or 4. As Ive said, his repayment 
history for the first two loans wasnt concerning and it was still relatively early in the lending 
relationship. Morses Club had also asked Mr C about his other loans and other outgoings, so 
hed been given the opportunity to declare expenses for all his credit commitments.
For these two loans, the income and expenditure that Mr C declared left him with a 
disposable income of around £186 to £317. So, I think the weekly instalments (with a highest 
combined repayment of £30) wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable.
Im sorry to hear that Mr C was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved
difficult. And I accept that Mr Cs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in
either the information he provided, or the other information Morses Club may have seen in 
its credit checks. And it might be that Mr Cs actual financial position may well have been 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained.
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on
what Morses Club knew about Mr C, that meant it needed to verify the information. So, I 
dont think that it could or should have known that Mr C was having financial difficulties at the 
time.
It is of course possible that, had Mr C continued to borrow from Morses Club, then it may 
have needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks which may have involved 
asking for evidence of his financial position. But considering Mr C took four loans and these
appeared affordable, I dont think Morses Club was wrong to have provided them.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about these loans. I appreciate this
will be disappointing for Mr C. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings
that I have.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman