DRN-2216418
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to settle her 
complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy, taken out alongside 
her store card account.
What happened
Mrs W opened took out her store card in January 2004 and at the same time PPI was added 
to the account.  When Mrs W complained that the PPI was mis-sold, AXA agreed to uphold 
her complaint and offered her some compensation to settle the complaint. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with the compensation amount offered and brought her complaint to 
this service. She said the amount offered didnt include any penalty for the mis-sale when 
she believes she was mis-led and lied to when the sale took place.
Our adjudicator said what AXA had offered was fair. Mrs W remained unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the business has upheld Mrs Ws complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, in this decision I 
am not looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold. I am only considering if what AXA has 
offered as compensation for the mis-sold PPI, is fair. 
When a business has mis-sold PPI we expect it to as far as possible pay compensation to 
put the consumer in the position they would have been in if they had never taken out the 
PPI. This means refunding all the premiums charged and any interest caused by the 
additional cost of the premiums being added to the account balance. The business is also 
required to pay compensatory interest for any time the consumer is out of pocket.
In this case, the account opened in January 2004 and the PPI started at the same date. The 
PPI was cancelled in 2011 and last billed on the account in March 2011. AXA have the 
lifetime payments for the account, and these indicate that £189.05 was paid in total for the 
PPI premiums from when the account opened until March 2011.
AXA has also calculated that of the total interest charged on the account for everything, 
which was £204.36, that £129.55 was caused by the PPI premiums being added to the 
account balance. This seems a slightly high proportion of the total interest being allocated for 
the PPI, and may be generous to Mrs W, so it is very fair.
This results in the total cost of the PPI to be refunded being £318.60. AXA has then worked 
out the compensatory interest on this amount for any time Mrs W was out of pocket to the 
date of its offer, and this came to £235.31 after tax. Making the total compensation offer of 
£553.91.
Mrs W is unhappy with this amount as shes indicated she feels AXA have only refunded the 
premiums paid and not paid anything to compensate for the policy being mis-sold in an 
underhand way. She says Lloyds are not being penalised for this. She has also referred to 
PPI she had with another business where she says she was paid additional compensation. 
As I have set out above, we expect businesses to pay PPI compensation which is made up 
of a refund of all PPI costs and also compensatory interest. And Mrs W has been offered 
compensatory interest as part of the compensation amount. So she is being paid more than 
just the costs of the PPI.
This service is not the financial regulator, that is the Financial Conduct Authority, and our 
role is not to penalise businesses. Our role is to settle disputes in a fair way to both parties. 
Every complaint is considered on its individual facts and what happens in one case may be 
different to another. 
In this case, looking at what AXA has worked out as the total costs of the PPI and 
compensatory interest on that amount to the date of its offer, I think the offer is fair.
Therefore, I am not upholding this complaint that any additional compensation should be 
paid for the mis-sale. 
If the compensation payment has not yet been made to Mrs W, then AXA will need to update 
the compensatory interest to the date of actual payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding this complaint. If AXA France IARD 
has not yet paid the compensation to Mrs W then it will need to update the compensatory 
interest, but otherwise no additional compensation is due.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman