DRN-2550162
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
The mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Cs joint names. The policy covered Mr C. It would have 
paid Mr and Mrs Cs monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months per successful claim 
for injury, illness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs signed mortgage application form. It includes a 
section on insurance. Within that section theres a clear heading Payment Protection 
Insurance for Injury, Illness and Unemployment. It explains that the first six months of 
the cover will be provided free, and asks whether the applicant wishes to continue with 
the cover after the first six months. It instructs them to answer yes or no. The word Yes 
is written in the adjacent box. 
Theres also a tick to indicate that Mr and Mrs C wished to take cover for injury, illness 
and unemployment, as opposed to the other option of injury and illness only. Im satisfied 
that Bradford & Bingley made Mr and Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional, and that 
they chose to take it. But I can understand how they may no longer remember this, so 
many years later.
Mr and Mrs C and Bradford & Bingley agree that Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. This means it didnt need to check that the PPI was suitable for 
them. But Bradford & Bingley still had a responsibility to give Mr and Mrs C enough 
information to enable them to decide for themselves whether PPI was right for them. 
Based on the documents Ive seen from around the time when Mr and Mrs C applied for 
the mortgage, it looks as if Mr C would have been entitled to just one months sick pay 
from his employer at the time. The PPI would have paid Mr and Mrs Cs monthly 
mortgage payments for up to 12 months per successful claim for injury, illness or 
unemployment. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr C 
received from his employer. So he could have used those to meet other day-to-day 
expenses.
Ive borne in mind that the mortgage was a long-term financial commitment, secured on 
Mr and Mrs Cs property, and the consequences of falling behind with their mortgage 
payments could have been serious. Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could 
have been useful for Mr and Mrs C, especially as theyve told us that aside from any 
payments from Mr Cs employer, they didnt have any other means they could have used 
to make their mortgage payments if Mr C was off sick, or if he lost his job.
Mr C was eligible for the PPI. Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt point out the main 
things the policy didnt cover  for example provisions about unusual employment 
arrangements or existing medical conditions. But based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time, its unlikely hed have been affected by any of these. 
The cost of the policy was shown clearly on the mortgage offer. So I think Mr and Mrs C 
would have understood how much theyd need to pay for it. And as they were paying for 
the PPI monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time without further cost if their 
circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted the cover.
So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs C would have 
made a different decision about taking out the PPI even if better information had been 
provided. On balance, I think theyd still have decided to go ahead with the cover.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman