DRN-1631287
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited would not 
reinstate their personal protection policies in full and pay a claim for either critical illness or 
terminal illness benefit. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out two joint protection policies in 2013 and 2014. They provided life 
cover and separate critical illness cover both with decreasing terms, each with premiums 
payable on the 27th of each month. The life cover had an initial sum assured of £58,000 and 
the critical illness cover was  £150,000. The policies were taken out through an independent 
financial adviser. Mr F says these policies were of particular importance because he had 
recently become self-employed.
In 2017, Mr F started to become unwell with neurological issues. By 2018, his symptoms had 
worsened and Mr F underwent a series of hospital investigations, initially with suspicions that 
he may have a type of cancer. From July 2018, Mr F says he no longer received any 
income.
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs F contacted a debt charity for assistance. Mr and Mrs F say 
that Mrs F opened them up a new bank account under the guidance of the charity, and she 
moved their priority bill payments to that account. Mr and Mrs F say their health insurance 
policies were seen as a priority payment. However, in the process of moving accounts, the 
direct debits for the policies were missed and they werent transferred.
Consequently, L&G was unable to collect the premiums from Mr and Mrs F on 27 November 
2018. The last premium they had paid for either policy was Octobers premiums, paid late on 
8 November 2018.
L&G sent Mr and Mrs F a letter dated 5 December 2018 explaining that it could not collect 
the direct debit payment and it needed to receive payment within 14 days for the policy to 
continue. It had tried to recollect the premiums on 8 December 2018 as it had with the 
previous missed payment, but it was returned as unpaid by their bank.
Since no response was received and no arrears were paid, L&G wrote to Mr and Mrs F 
again on 24 January 2019, explaining that cover under the policies had now ceased. It gave 
Mr and Mrs F a further 14 days to reinstate the policies, but again no reply was received.
Mr and Mrs F say they did receive letters from L&G but they didnt open them or action them 
at the time. This was because of dealing with Mr Fs significant ill-health, the debt charity and 
making claims for state benefits.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs F made a claim for terminal illness benefit with the help of their IFA. Mr 
F was sadly diagnosed with a type of motor neurone disease in March 2019.
 
L&G agreed to assess whether any claim could have been made whilst the policies were in 
force.In May 2019, it told Mr and Mrs F that it couldnt pay a claim for either policy.
In respect of reinstating the policies, L&G explained that it appreciated Mr and Mrs F went 
through particular financial hardship in mid-2018, but it had followed a process of notifying 
them that their policies were going to lapse if they didnt pay the arrears of premium 
payments. Since Mr and Mrs F didnt act on these letters, it was right to lapse the policies on 
27 December 2018.
L&G also said neither Mr Fs MND diagnosis nor his terminal illness confirmation came 
before the policies ended. They were both made by his consultant and GP in March 2019. 
Since the policies were no longer in force at that time, it was correct to refuse the claims.
Mr and Mrs Fs IFA appealed the matter with L&G, but it was unwilling to change its view.
So, Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint to this service. They said it was clear Mr F had 
fallen ill over a year before the policies lapsed and it was clearly not their intention to allow 
them to cease. They said it should assess their claims on that basis as they clearly wished to 
retain their cover and rely on it.
Mr F explained that a differing provider had paid out on a claim, after he had provided 
verifiable evidence that he and Mrs F were suffering from financial hardship at the time the 
policies lapsed.
Our investigator initially asked L&G if it would be willing to reinstate the policy as a goodwill 
gesture.
L&G said that it was willing to exercise goodwill and make a discretionary payment on the 
critical illness policy. This was despite the policy definition being met. It said it had done so 
since Mr F had suffered from his illness whilst his policy was in force, but it took some time 
to receive a diagnosis.
The claim value as at the date of Mr Fs diagnosis was £125,534. It offered to pay that sum 
assured, less the missing premiums to March 2019. It said it was not willing to pay interest 
on that sum, as it was an ex-gratia offer.
Mr and Mrs F accepted L&Gs proposal regarding the critical illness claim. But they wished 
to continue the complaint about the life policy.
L&G reiterated that it had no obligation to reinstate the life assurance policy. It said it didnt 
have to send out arrears letters but it did write to Mr and Mrs F on two occasions and it 
notified their IFA via an electronic system on three separate occasions (when payments 
were missed and when the policy was lapsed).
Mr and Mrs Fs IFA also wrote to our investigator. He explained that in the almost 20 years 
he had known Mr and Mrs F they had always prioritised insurance for their health and 
protection of their family. He did not realise the situation with their lapsed policies until Mr F 
contacted him shortly after receiving his diagnosis in March 2019. The IFA said he had 
previously tried to contact Mr and Mrs F regarding their annual review in December 2018 
and January 2019 but he had received no reply.
The IFAs view was that Mr and Mrs F were so understandably concerned about Mr Fs 
decline in health that they simply overlooked their lapsed policy. He felt L&G ought to 
reinstate the remaining life assurance policy so a claim could be made in the future or as 
required.Our investigator did not think the remainder of the complaint should succeed. She said that 
the evidence showed Mr and Mrs F were aware their policy premium had been cancelled. 
They didnt seek to remedy that until March 2019 when they met with their IFA. But by then, 
the policy had lapsed.
She also said her view was that this service should expect L&G to look at whether Mr and 
Mrs F intended to pay the premiums and whether they had the means to do so. She noted 
that according to the debt charity, this wasnt the case because their debts significantly 
exceeded their income.
The investigator said Mr and Mrs F could have responded to the lapse letter from L&G to 
avoid the policy being lost. Whilst it was unfortunate they only had reason to consider 
reinstating their cover after it had lapsed, she didnt think it was fair to insist L&G place the 
policy back on risk when it wasnt obliged to. Because of that, it couldnt pay a terminal 
illness claim. That was because the statement in respect of Mr Fs life expectancy was given 
by his GP in March 2019.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our investigator. Mr F said, in summary:
 
they had maintained their policies right up until Mr F became poorly  this 
demonstrates their intent to retain their health insurances;
despite suffering considerably with symptoms in 2018 -meaning their income 
dropped significantly- they still maintained their insurance premiums;
it is utterly inconceivable that the investigator would think Mr and Mrs F would cancel 
their policy intentionally;
from early 2019 to his diagnosis in March 2019, Mr F suspected he was suffering 
from MND as he had researched his symptoms;
given the nature of the condition it took a considerable time to mentally process this 
news;
he did not open the letter from L&G until sometime in February 2019 by which time it 
was too late to reinstate the policy within the 14 days stated;
it was only when his life expectancy was discussed in March 2019 that he felt able to 
get in control of his and Mrs Fs circumstances and plan ahead;
thats why they only contacted the IFA at that time;
initially the concern was to access any investments and pensions he had so the 
protection policies were not the focus of the IFA;
they disagree that Mrs F could have dealt with the matter  instead she was having 
to work full time to keep them afloat;
they also had significant health issues with their dependent child from October 2018 
onwards;
they have supplied a copy of their bank balance of December 2018 which shows they 
could have afforded to pay the policy premiums;
they have also evidenced they made up a payment immediately for a missed direct 
debit on their car payment that same month;
though they accumulated debt and needed help from a debt charity, this was 
because of the specific circumstances of Mr Fs self-employment and the loss of 
income;
they did have the means to pay, unlike the investigator said, because they were in 
receipt of state benefits of a further £1200 per month after the debt statement was 
produced to negotiate with their creditors;
they arent pointing blame at L&G for voiding the policy or failing to make them 
aware;what theyre saying is they were not in a position to address the matter;
their intention was to maintain life insurance and that had Mr F not had such a 
debilitating condition which affected his ability to work they would have continued to 
enjoy the benefit of the life assurance policy.
L&G said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I do wish to send my best wishes to Mr and Mrs F. I was sorry to 
learn of Mr Fs diagnosis and of the circumstances which led to the policies being cancelled. 
I recognise how difficult things must be for them and their family.
I need to be fair to both parties in a complaint. My remit is to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances. I have therefore looked at whether the policy was fairly 
lapsed or not, and if at any time a claim was payable in accordance with the policy terms.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator, albeit with a different 
reasoning. That means I wont be asking L&G to do anything more.
I can see our investigator has made points about whether there was intent to pay the 
premiums. I dont doubt Mr and Mrs F when they say that they did intend to pay them, they 
did not mean to cancel them, and it was circumstances which led to their delay in trying to 
address their lost cover.
Nonetheless, I dont take the view that intent is the key factor in this complaint. Nor do I think 
that whether Mr and Mrs F could have found a way to pay the premiums is central to the 
outcome here. That is because (as Mr and Mrs F say) the policies didnt lapse because they 
couldnt afford to keep them or because they wanted to cancel them but because they 
changed bank accounts following debt management advice. 
What is key is whether L&G acted fairly when it couldnt collect the premiums.
I have looked at what the parties' obligations are under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. That is the start point. The policy terms say:
7.3 What happens if you dont pay your premiums?
We are entitled to cancel this policy if any premiums are not paid within 30 days of 
their due date. If we cancel this policy, the cover will end and no further premiums will 
be payable. We will not refund any premiums already paid.
8.1 You will not be eligible to make a claim under this policy if:
you dont meet the definitions for cover as described in sections 2 and 3, or
section 2.1.1 applies, or
the premiums under this policy are not up to date.The missing premiums were due on 27 November 2018. Thirty days from this date was 27 
December 2018. L&G went beyond this and gave Mr and Mrs F 14 days from the letter of 24 
January 2019 to reinstate their cover. Sadly, this wasnt addressed until almost two months 
later.
L&G has behaved fairly because it has acted within the terms applying to both policies. The 
terms are explicit that it is not obliged to pay a claim if the premiums are outstanding and it 
can terminate the policy after 30 days has passed from non-payment of any premium.
I know Mr and Mrs F feel strongly that because a differing insurer has agreed to apply 
discretion and pay a claim, that this service must compel L&G to do the same. This is 
particularly since it has done so with the critical illness claim.
But I cannot simply instruct L&G to do that. In considering what is fair and reasonable to both 
parties, I must refer to the contract of insurance between Mr and Mrs F and L&G. I cannot 
infer terms in the contract to allow for goodwill or ex-gratia payments. An insurer may well 
choose to apply discretion or act outside of the terms (if it does so in a more favourable way 
than the terms allow), but it is not something I can order it to do in these circumstances.
I do not underestimate that Mr and Mrs F were suffering from particularly difficult 
circumstances, but L&G was not at fault for that. As I have set out above, it has acted within 
the policy terms. And therefore, I cannot order it to reinstate the life assurance policy such 
that a terminal illness claim can be assessed now.
As an aside, I have considered whether a terminal illness claim could have been met before 
8 November 2018 (the date of the last paid premium as claims can only be made where the 
premiums are up to date). The policy wording for that requires proof that the terminal illness 
definition has been met and the definition says:
a definite diagnosis by your hospital consultant of an illness that satisfies both of the 
following:
The illness either has no known cure or has progressed to the point where it 
cannot be cured; and
In the opinion of your hospital consultant and our Medical Officer, the illness is 
expected to lead to death within 12 months.
I have seen no clear evidence that would support the policy definition of terminal illness 
before 8 November 2018. The evidence Mr and Mrs F have supplied regarding life 
expectancy was issued in March 2019, and it was not provided by a hospital consultant. If Mr 
and Mrs F believe they do have evidence of this nature, theyd need to present that to L&G 
directly in the first instance. 
My final decision
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs F and Im sorry that this is not what 
they have hoped for. However, my decision is that the complaint regarding the failure to 
consider a terminal illness claim cannot succeed. This is because L&G acted in accordance 
with the policy wording when it cancelled the cover due to non-payment of premiums, and 
there is no evidence to show a claim could have been met before the policy lapsed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.Jo Storey
Ombudsman