DRN-1670976
The complaint
Mrs G, who is represented by a third party, complains that Sesame Limited (Sesame) 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in June 2006, when she was 
arranging a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs G says she the PPI wasnt properly explained to her and she didnt need it. 
However, our adjudicator upheld the complaint because in her view Mrs G wasnt eligible 
for the PPI at the time she took it out, having only been in continuous employment for 4 
months instead of the 6 months required under the policy terms. 
As Sesame doesnt agree with our adjudicators finding, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about payment protection insurance on our 
website, and Ive used this approach in this case.
Sesame accepts it advised Mrs G to take out the PPI policy. So it had to make sure it was 
suitable for her needs, as well as making sure that Mrs G had enough information to decide 
whether she wanted to take it out. Mrs G also needed to be eligible for the cover, or it 
wouldnt be any use to her at all. 
This policy had a set of eligibility rules for who could take it out. One of those rules, 
common to many PPI policies, was that a person had to be continuously employed for 6 
months when the policy started. I can see Mrs G had been employed for around 4 months 
at the time. This made her ineligible for the cover.
I think if that term had been fully explained to Mrs G at the time, then shed have decided 
not to buy the policy. Shed only been employed for around four months at that point and 
had previously been in full time education. So I think she would been aware that it was 
likely that this term would make her ineligible for the cover.
 
Sesame says that had Mrs G needed to claim, given that the eligibility criteria was close to 
being met, its own in-house insurance team would have been able to use their discretion 
regarding the eligibility criteria. But thats not the same as a definite guarantee that Mrs G 
would have her claim considered. I think Mrs G ought to have enjoyed the peace of mind of 
knowing she was eligible for the cover from the time she took out the PPI.
It follows that I agree with our adjudicators initial finding and so I am upholding this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Sesame should put Mrs G in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
Sesame should:
- Pay Mrs G the amount she paid each month for the PPI
- Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
- If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Sesame can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sesame to take off tax from this interest. Sesame must 
give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Sesame Limited to compensate Mrs G as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman