DRN-2832135
The complaint
Mr K is complaining that the vehicle supplied to him by Black Horse Limited was 
misrepresented. He says the odometer mileage reading was incorrect, and the car had 
actually covered more miles than was noted on the finance agreement. 
What happened
Mr K took out a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse Limited for a 2 year old vehicle. 
The cash price was around £17,000 and the mileage registered on the finance agreement 
and the odometer for the vehicle was 8,718 miles. 
Soon after obtaining the car, Mr K noticed that the sat-nav system suggested that the car 
had travelled 17,842 miles. The supplying dealership carried out a diagnostic check and said 
that this confirmed the mileage on the odometer was correct and that the sat-nav had 
suffered a technical glitch and not recorded the mileage correctly. The sat-nav system was 
reset so that it recorded things correctly from that point onwards. 
Mr K was concerned that the car had covered more miles than had been advertised meaning 
it was worth less than he had paid for it. He was also concerned that if this was the case, it 
may have missed a scheduled service which might invalidate the warranty. He complained 
to Black Horse Limited, saying that the goods were not as described at the point of sale and 
he felt a £3000 price reduction would be a fair resolution to the complaint.
Black Horse Limited did not uphold this complaint, saying they were satisfied that there was 
no actual mileage discrepancy and that the mileage it had been sold with on the finance 
agreement was correct, and confirming the vehicle had not missed a scheduled service and 
the warranty was still valid. Unhappy with this, Mr K brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator here investigated the complaint and did not uphold it. They felt that it was 
most likely that it was the sat-nav showing the wrong mileage, not the odometer, and didnt 
feel the business needed to do anything further. 
Mr K disagreed with this view and asked for the case to be reviewed by an Ombudsman for 
a final decision. He said he felt that the previous owner of the vehicle had used a mileage 
stopper which stopped the odometer registering the miles being travelled for a period of 
time. He felt they had then forgotten to delete the recorded mileage from the sat-nav system, 
and when he found this, the dealership had deleted this mileage intentionally from the sat-
nav system.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K feels the mileage has been misrepresented to him and the car was worth less when he 
obtained it because it had covered more miles than he believed was the case when he 
entered into the finance agreement. To uphold a complaint about misrepresentation, I would 
need to be satisfied that the mileage covered by the car at the point of sale had been 
misrepresented to Mr K and that this misrepresentation induced him to buy the car. 
The evidence in this case is for the most part the testimony from each party. I can see from 
the finance agreement that the mileage noted for the vehicle was 8,718 miles. There is no 
evidence provided by either party confirming the details shown on the sat-nav system other 
than testimony.
Black Horse Limited has confirmed that when Mr K queried the discrepancy with the sat nav, 
the supplying dealership carried out a diagnostic check and confirmed the odometer reading 
was correct, and that there had been an error with the sat-nav which they had corrected. So, 
I am satisfied that there was a discrepancy between the two sources around how many 
miles the car had travelled. 
The testimony from the business around the checks carried out and the actions the 
dealership took is plausible and makes sense as a course of action in these circumstances. 
They confirmed the odometer reading was correct through a diagnostic check and moved on 
to identify a problem with the sat-nav which they fixed, which corrected the mileage on the 
sat-nav system. 
We do occasionally see complaints alleging that the mileage has been altered on an 
odometer. However, this would be more commonly alleged for older cars with higher 
mileage, where a significant change in the recorded mileage might significantly increase the 
price of the car. In this instance, the mileage isnt all that different, and would still be below 
average mileage for a 2 year old car. 
Alongside this, Mr K has been unable to provide any evidence to corroborate his suggestion 
that the mileage had been changed on the odometer. Whilst I understand his concern at the 
possibility this had happened, there is no evidence that the odometer was wrong. As such, 
there hasnt been a misrepresentation to him. 
On balance, I think it is most likely that the sat-nav mileage reading was incorrect, and the 
odometer was correct. Black Horse Limited have already confirmed this to Mr K, and 
confirmed that this meant there had been no issue with the car servicing intervals or his 
warranty when he obtained the car, so I wont be asking them to do anymore.  
 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman