DRN-4008720
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the delays caused by Financial Administration Services Limited 
(Fidelity) in providing the book costs for her General Investment Account (GIA) which she 
transferred to another platform provider. 
What happened
Mrs C held a GIA with Fidelity. She wanted to move the account to another platform provider 
which I shall refer to as B in my decision. As part of the move Mrs C needed the book costs 
for capital gains tax (CGT) purposes in order for her to be able to accurately report to 
HMRC. 
The book costs were requested but there was a delay in them being provided and Mrs C has 
said she incurred additional costs because of the time her accountants had to take in trying 
to assemble a CGT report. She suffered further worry and anguish. Fidelity had provided 
poor or no service which resulted in delays and inconvenience. 
In its response to Mrs C, Fidelity said that it didnt have to provide CGT information. But it did 
have an add on feature for CGT purposes which its website made clear had limitations.
Remaining dissatisfied Mrs C brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She said 
that because the book costs were unknown it wasnt possible to assess any potential losses 
or gains for capital gains tax purposes. So, she wasnt able to take any action with her 
investments with B. Mrs C says this caused her a financial loss. She wanted an apology and 
comfort that other investors wouldnt suffer similar losses and anguish. 
After Mrs C brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, Fidelity confirmed that it 
had been able to provide a schedule of the book costs for her account. It also said it had 
paid £50 into Mrs Cs account because she had been misled. She didnt accept the offer.
In its submission to the Financial Ombudsman Fidelity said that it was Mrs Cs responsibility 
to have recorded the information that she was seeking. But it acknowledged that it should 
have made this clear to B earlier. Because of this it increased its total offer to £200. We 
passed this offer onto to Mrs C.  
Mrs C rejected the offer of £200, so our investigator proceeded to assess the complaint. She 
said;
She outlined the dates from when the report was requested by B until the correct 
contact details were provided to B in February 2021.  
Mrs C had said the CGT report was industry standard information so not having it 
would have caused her frustration. But the investigator concluded there were no 
regulatory requirements for this or that it formed part of the agreement Mrs C had 
with Fidelity. 
Fidelity did provide a CGT tool, but this was a value-added feature which had its 
limitations, and which couldnt be relied upon. 
Fidelity provided a Confirmation of Transaction letter when trades on account were 
carried out and the onus was on Mrs C to make any tax determinations based on the 
information those letters contained so she couldnt find that Fidelity was at fault. 
However, Fidelity should have explained the extent of its obligations in response to 
Bs requests at an earlier date. That delay caused Mrs C distress and the investigator 
thought the total of £200 offered because of that was fair. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. It was the book costs that she needed rather than a 
CGT report and it was only Fidelity who had that information. The information Fidelity 
eventually provided wasnt in accordance with the regulators guidelines. B had to rely on 
lengthy reconstruction and non-compliant information sent by Fidelity after many delays.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons. I appreciate Mrs C feels strongly about her complaint and will explain further. 
Mrs C has said that she wants some comfort that other customers wont go through the 
same experience she has. But I can only consider complaints on their own individual 
circumstances so I cant make such a finding. 
The information a business is obliged to provide its customer  over and above any 
regulatory requirements about reporting of transactions etc  would be within the agreement 
between the customer and the business.
In assessing this point, Fidelity has confirmed that it sent a Confirmation of Transaction letter 
(a contract note) to the customer or the customers independent financial adviser whenever 
a transaction took place on Mrs Cs account. And the book cost and purchase date for 
capital gains tax purposes would be recorded in that contract note. The same would apply to 
any sale transaction contract notes. Those contract notes would provide the acquisition 
costs/sale proceeds and dates that would be needed as raw data for CGT calculations in 
order to manage the CGT for the account and to report to HMRC. So, I am satisfied that 
Fidelity carried out the actions it was obliged to do with regard to book costs.
Some financial firms do provide CGT services such as offering CGT reports, the 
management of CGT on a customers behalf and provision of a consolidated tax voucher for 
HMRC reporting as examples. But these would inevitably incur a cost  and if such a service 
was offered by Fidelity  I cant see that it was one that Mrs C took advantage of. 
But Fidelity did tell us that it does have a value-added tool for its clients that can assist with 
CGT, but that tool had limitations in the information it provided. Ive referred to Fidelitys A 
brief guide to Fidelity capital gains tax report which said that the CGT reporting tool has 
been designed to make it easier for you to understand any CGT liability you have to declare 
on your tax return. 
The document makes clear that the information given is not to be regarded as any form of 
tax advice and that customers should always seek appropriate expert advice in relation to 
tax. It explains that the acquisition costs and disposal proceeds would be recorded in the 
contract notes. It provides other information about CGT and then has a detailed Disclaimer 
section outlining the limitations of the report. The disclaimer makes clear that the CGT reports do not act as a substitute for maintaining 
records yourself to substantiate any tax return or filing you make. So, looking at the service 
Mrs C did receive I am satisfied that Fidelity acted as it should. It provided the contract notes 
that recorded acquisition costs and disposal proceeds at the times of the relevant 
transactions that would be needed for any CGT calculations and in order to substantiate any 
tax return or filing you make. Those contract notes were sent to either Mrs C or her 
independent financial adviser, so she was already in receipt of that information. 
But the CGT added value tool isnt the issue here. Its about the information Fidelity was 
responsible for providing with regard to book costs. Fidelitys responsibly was to provide 
contract notes that gave information for the basis of working out whether there were any 
losses or gains on investments for CGT purposes, its management and any reporting or tax 
due to HMRC. It did offer the CGT added value tool but explained the significant limitations 
and that any tax calculations werent tailored or take into account the individual customers 
circumstances. 
In conclusion, Fidelity had already provided book costs/disposal proceeds information for 
any transactions that had taken place while Mrs C was a customer via the provision of 
contract notes. So, Mrs C already had access to the raw information needed to establish any 
unrealised gains or losses. Fidelity didnt have an obligation to provide any other information 
over and above that but did offer the facility of the CGT tool to assist its customers. So, I 
cant agree that Fidelity hasnt acted as it should have done.
However, like the investigator, and as already recognised by Fidelity, I think it should have 
responded to B sooner about the limited information it could provide. And undoubtedly this 
delay would have caused Mrs C distress and inconvenience as she was waiting for this 
information  which Fidelity couldnt provide  in order to manage any CGT on her account 
and report to HMRC. Fidelity initially offered Mrs C £50 but later increased this offer to £200 
in recognition of the delay in confirming this with B and the impact that had on Mrs C. I think 
that offer is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience that was caused by Fidelity.
Mrs C has said the information provided in the book cost report she has been given is not in 
accordance with the FCA Guidance note Making transfers simple If Mrs C has any 
concerns about that, she will need to raise them Fidelity. 
Putting things right
Overall, I dont find that Fidelity didnt provide the agreed service to Mrs C with regard to the 
book cost information. But I do agree that it should make an offer for the poor service she 
received by Fidelity not confirming its limitations of the information it could provide at an 
earlier date. And taking all of the above into account I think £200 is fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint. 
If Mrs C does accept the offer, Fidelity should ensure that it pays the full £200 or evidences 
to Mrs C that it has already paid her the £50 originally offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Financial Administration Services 
Limited should pay the compensation already offered. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman