DRN-1932517
The complaint
Ms R has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to correctly identify the 
cause of a problem with her hot water supply.
What happened
Ms R has a Homecare policy with BG. Shortly after an annual service visit in July 2019, Ms 
R experienced an intermittent supply of hot water to her bathroom. She called BG and an 
engineer attended on 9 August. He wasnt able to observe the problem as it was intermittent, 
but he thought it might be a problem with the mixing valve for the shower. Ms R had this 
replaced by another engineer a few weeks later, which cost Ms R £158.40.
Ms R says that the problem continued until the hot water stopped completely. She called BG 
again and an engineer visited on 15 December. He thought it might be a problem with either 
the boilers diaphragm or the flow switch, as the fault was intermittent. The flow switch was 
replaced on 16 December, but this didnt fix the problem, so the next day the diaphragm was 
replaced. This had deteriorated significantly, and when this was replaced, the system 
worked properly again.
BG has accepted that its initial diagnosis was incorrect and refunded Ms R the £158.40 she 
spent on the replacement mixing valve. It also offered her £60 compensation for the 
inconvenience shed been caused.
Ms R initially accepted BGs offer of £60, but then withdrew this as she feels that £250 is 
more appropriate. She feels that the deteriorating diaphragm shouldve been identified at the 
service visit in June. As she wasnt satisfied with BGs offer in response to her complaint, 
she brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt consider that BG had acted unreasonably in that as soon as BG were 
made aware of the re-occurrence, they fixed it within a day. Ms R hadnt suffered any 
financial loss, and shed been offered £60 compensation.
Ms R doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive taken into account that Ms R experienced problems with her hot water supply for some 
time, but it appears that this was intermittent. BGs engineer didnt notice it when he visited 
on 9 August 2019, so he told Ms R it mightve been the mixer valve. Some time passed 
before Ms R had this replaced, but it wouldve been replaced by 5 September when Ms R 
was invoiced for this work.
But it wasnt until December 2019 that Ms R contacted BG again to complain that she was 
still experiencing hot water problems in her bathroom. BG engineers then attended on three 
consecutive days until the problem had been correctly identified and resolved.
I dont consider that BG is to blame for the fact that Ms R continued to have this problem for 
so long.  If shed contacted BG in September after it became apparent that replacing the 
mixer valve hadnt solved the problem, the problem couldve been sorted out then.
As to whether the deteriorating diaphragm shouldve been identified at an annual service 
visit, Ive taken account of what is routinely done at an annual service. Ms Rs policy states:
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will 
include testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces. If the visit shows that its 
necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean it, well do so. During 
the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows you exactly what weve looked at. 
If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you about it.
I consider that a fault thats only intermittent is very difficult to identify and wouldnt be 
apparent from the sort of inspection carried out at an annual service. Nor would it have been 
apparent to BGs engineer when he attended on 9 August. Its often the case that various 
tests need to be done to find the root cause of a problem. Whilst this can be frustrating, I 
think its up to the customer to report back if an attempted fix hasnt had the desired result. 
BG has reimbursed Ms R for the cost of the mixer valve that she had fitted when BGs 
engineer initially suggested it might be the cause of the problem. And as soon as Ms R told 
BG some three months later that the problem was continuing despite the replacement of the 
mixer valve, BG visited again quickly and correctly identified the cause of the problem.
As I consider that BG wasnt responsible for the length of time if took to identify and fix Ms 
Rs hot water problem, I consider that BGs offer of £60 compensation is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint and I dont require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything other than to pay Ms R the £60 compensation it 
offered her if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman