DRN-4206247
The complaint
In summary, Mr W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, didnt 
complete the transfer of an Individual Savings Account (ISA) in the time it should have. And 
he doesnt think it responded to his complaint within the timeframes that it should have.
As Clydesdale is the company responsible for the complaint, I will refer to it in my decision 
rather than Virgin Money.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr W requested a transfer of an ISA he had with another provider to 
Clydesdale. He wasnt happy with the time it took for the transfer to be completed and 
complained to Clydesdale.
In its response to his complaint, Clydesdale apologised that the transfer took as long as it 
did. And it accepted he had received poor customer service. It confirmed that interest had 
been backdated to November 2022. It also offered Mr W £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr W didnt accept the £100 offered by Clydesdale. So, his concerns were looked into by 
one of our investigators. They said that Clydesdale had made mistakes. But they didnt think 
it needed to do anymore as it had provided a detailed response to the complaint, repaid and 
backdated interest and offered £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr W. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said that the transfer was from an ISA he had with another provider to 
Clydesdale and didnt think the investigator had correctly understood his complaint. He was 
transferring an ISA to Clydesdale, not from it. He provided further submissions and 
explained in summary, that he was concerned the investigator hadnt realised that 
Clydesdale was in charge of the paperwork and therefore the timetable for the transfer. He 
didnt think the compensation offered adequately compensated him for the distress and 
inconvenience he had incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Clydesdale needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
In reaching my findings, I havent commented on every point of concern Mr W has raised. I 
dont intend to offend him by not doing so or mean any disrespect in taking this approach. 
Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues I think I need to consider.  
From the evidence Ive seen Clydesdale has paid interest Mr W lost out on as a result of the 
delays and backdated this to when the transfer should have been completed. I understand 
Mr Ws concerns that Clydesdale hadnt processed his ISA transfer application within the 
relevant timeframes. Thats not in dispute and Clydesdale accepts that there were delays in 
the ISA transfer being processed which were down to it, and in it providing Mr W with 
information and applying the interest correctly. So, I dont need to make any findings on that 
point. Instead, I need to think about appropriate compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused. 
Mr W has also raised specific concerns about how Clydesdale handled his complaint and the 
timeframes in which it wrote to him. I do understand that Mr W is unhappy with the time it 
took Clydesdale to respond to his complaint but that isnt something I can consider. This is 
because complaints about complaint handling arent regulated activities, or any of the non-
regulated activities that this service can consider. So, I and this service, dont have the 
authority to investigate that aspect of his complaint.
I can consider Mr Ws understandable concerns about the time it took Clydesdale to process 
his ISA transfer. And I agree that he has been caused some distress and inconvenience as a 
result of that, and has had to chase Clydesdale to get the transfer progressed.  
Deciding on an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience, isnt an exact 
science. I need to think about the impact on Mr W of the mistakes made by Clydesdale when 
considering the amount of any award that might be appropriate, to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused.  
I acknowledge the transfer took longer than it should have. I also accept that Mr W was put 
to the inconvenience of having to chase this matter up with Clydesdale over several months. 
It seems to me that the impact on Mr W has been relatively moderate, although I 
acknowledge he doesnt think so.
Part of Mr Ws concerns as Ive explained, stem from the delays in dealing with his 
complaint. For the reasons Ive given, that isnt something I can consider awarding 
compensation for. 
Although its possible that Clydesdale could have offered to pay more compensation, for the 
reasons Ive summarised, I dont think what it has offered Mr W is an inappropriate amount 
of compensation, to reflect the inconvenience he has been caused because of the delays by 
it in processing his ISA transfer.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that if that amount hasnt already been paid to Mr W and if he accepts my 
decision, Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay Mr W £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman