DRN-3430056
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that their claim for storm damage under their home insurance 
policy with AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim for storm damage under their policy. The verge to their roof was 
damaged following strong winds. The builder who had originally fitted the verges said the 
dry verges have become dislodged due to high winds that wasnt due to our work we 
completed. But we will rectify this.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. They took photographs of the damage. 
AXA said, they could not see any evidence of storm related damage and noted the damage 
has been caused by poor workmanship. Mr and Mrs P were unhappy AXA declined the 
claim and wants it to re-consider its decision.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He didnt see any evidence of a storm 
at the time of the incident, so didnt think AXA had been unreasonable in declining the claim. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P said that AXA declined the claim due to poor workmanship, rather than for 
there been a lack of a storm. However, as storm damage is the only part of the policy Mr and 
Mrs P are potentially able to claim for from this incident, I have considered this complaint 
from the perspective of a storm damage claim. When our service looks at a storm claim, 
there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
AXA have defined in its policy what a storm or a violent period of weather is. It defines it as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) which are the equivalent to Storm 
Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale.
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour. Snow to a depth of at least one foot 
(30cms) in 24 hours. Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks 
glass.
AXA said at the time of the reported damage, winds of 28 mph were recorded, which doesnt 
meet the definition of a storm within the policy. Our service has our own weather records we 
can use to check reported weather conditions around the country. I have checked these for 
Mr and Mrs Ps incident and the records are consistent with what AXA has stated. Therefore, 
I think AXA has been fair in saying storm conditions werent present at the time of the 
incident.
As I have answered no to this question, I wont consider the other questions. I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P has said AXA didnt talk about the storm when it declined the 
claim and pointed to poor workmanship as the cause. AXAs loss adjuster had reported that 
the screws into the mortar had not been made with a solid fixing. Its unusual for winds of the 
strength reported to cause the damage presented. I would expect winds to be at a strength 
consistent with AXAs definition of a storm before they start causing materials to be blown 
away from fixed positions.
I think its more likely the strong winds exposed the poor workmanship that AXA highlighted 
when it declined the claim. I dont think the winds were the main cause of the damage.
Ive considered the £25 compensation AXA paid for difficulties getting through to speak to 
the claims department. I think this is fair based upon the evidence I have seen for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delay and frustration in progressing the claim. So, 
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require AXA Insurance UK plc to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman