DRN-2730776
The complaint
Mr K says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr K took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in late 2003, which came into effect in early 
2004. Mr K paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It 
covered him for an amount he chose, in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr K and Nationwide a provisional decision on 2 March 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the policy had been mis-sold. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold here  Ill explain why.
Mr Ks mortgage application had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of what the policy 
was for, and then had boxes which could be filled in if he wanted PPI, and boxes which 
could be filled in if he didnt want it. The boxes to turn down PPI were left blank, the boxes to 
buy it were filled in with the details of the cover Mr K wanted, and Mr K signed specifically for 
the policy  separately to signing for the lending itself. The policy was not a condition of his 
mortgage. And Ive not seen any wider problems with the sales process from the time, nor 
anything which shows that Mr K was misled or unfairly pressured here. So I think its most 
likely that Nationwide made it clear Mr K didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to 
take it at the time.
Theres some debate over whether Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr K, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Nationwide if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr K as 
possible, Ive assumed it did. That means Nationwide had to check that the policy was right 
for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
For example, it looks like Mr K was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and 
offered him more comprehensive cover, especially for when his benefits reduced to just a 
fraction of his normal pay. It also meant he could effectively protect his savings and use 
them for other things, instead of potentially having to sacrifice one asset to save another. 
Further, this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment. There was no 
guarantee that Mr K would have the same work situation, benefits, or savings available in 
the many years to come. And if he fell behind on his mortgage, he couldve lost his home. So 
it seems reasonable that he took out this insurance, to protect his home and provide some 
peace of mind.
It is possible that the information Nationwide gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr K chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have really been useful for Mr K in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it could pay out 
in a claim, and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. Overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
Mr K pointed out that the policys benefit was lower than his mortgage payment. But 
ultimately, thats because that was the benefit he chose. And it makes sense that he chose a 
reduced amount, since he was only shoring up the gaps in his existing cover. Further, the 
policys cost was proportionate to the benefit, so he kept the cost down this way.
Mr K also pointed out that Nationwide got some of the dates and amounts wrong, and 
provided a policy schedule to show this. I can completely understand why he provided this 
schedule, as one of the benefits is labelled as payment protection. But the policy 
documentation hes sent over is from a life and critical illness policy that he took out a few 
months after the PPI. This was a different policy which covered different things, and was not 
an alternative to or replacement for the PPI policy. And it didnt exist yet at the time of his 
PPI sale. So Im afraid that other policy wasnt relevant here.
Lastly, I understand Mr K is unhappy with the way Nationwide handled his complaint. Im 
afraid I cannot consider this, as I can only decide complaints about regulated activities  
such as the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a regulated activity in and of 
itself. So while Im sorry to hear that Mr K found the complaints process stressful, I cant 
consider that point. Instead, Ive focused my decision on the sale of his PPI.
The unfair commission
Since I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, this means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Nationwide has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell him, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
30 March 2021. But neither Mr K nor Nationwide sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that Nationwide doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI, and that its offer to refund the excess commission and profit 
share is fair.
What the business needs to do
Nationwide has to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. That means Nationwide should pay back to Mr K the extra he 
paid each month because the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the 
cost of PPI. Nationwide should also pay Mr K 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr K can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman