DRN-2069588
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) charged her for three 
months payments after she had voluntarily terminated (VT) her finance agreement.
What happened
Mrs Y had a car with funding provided by BFS and she decided to change it. She visited a 
BMW dealer and agreed on a new car. She called BMWFS from the showroom and said she 
wished to VT her existing agreement. She was told that she had to put it in writing and send 
it by email or post. She says she sent a letter the following day, but BMWFS says it has no 
record of receiving it. 
When Mrs Y collected her new car she left the old one with the dealer in June. In September 
she discovered that she was still being charged for the old one. She complained to BMWFS. 
It agreed to cover the cost of a MOT and remedial work which had been carried out on the 
car after she had left it with the dealer, but it didnt agree to refund the three months 
payments after she had sent her VT notification. It said it had no record of receiving the 
notification and she could have sent it by email or recorded delivery.
Mrs Y brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She noted the signed notification sent by Mrs 
Y dated 21 June. She also pointed out that Mrs Y had left the car with the dealer and so she 
didnt have use of it for the three-month period under dispute. 
Our investigator suggested BMWFS repay the three months payments plus interest. 
BMWFS didnt agree and said VT was a legal process and written notification was required. 
It had not received the notification and it wasnt responsible for that. It said that it paid the 
£220 cost for remedial work and the MOT and it thought this was a fair gesture.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is unfortunate that the failure to action the VT request wasnt picked up sooner by either 
Mrs Y or the dealer which had a car sitting in its compound doing nothing. However, it wasnt 
noticed until September when Mrs Y saw that her payments were continuing for the old car.
BMWFS require written confirmation of the termination of an agreement and I believe Mrs Y 
was told this when she called the business from the dealer. She has provided a copy of the 
notice which she sent on 21 June by first class post. This service accepts a business has 
issued a letter or form if its records show that it has been sent and we say that it cant be 
held responsible for the non-delivery. I think it only fair and reasonable that we treat 
consumers in the same way. I am satisfied that the form dated 21 June was sent by Mrs Y 
and she cannot be held responsible for its non-delivery.I also have to take into account that Mrs Y didnt have use of the car for the three month 
period. She had left it at the dealers thinking it had been returned and the agreement 
terminated. If she had kept it I might have reached a different conclusion, but I think that 
given she had sent the notification and returned the car it was reasonable for her to have 
concluded the agreement had been ended.
Putting things right
I am satisfied that Mrs Y returned the car and sent the required notification. As such I 
consider it only fair that her payments be returned.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to repay the three months payments of £219.23 plus interest at 8% simple from the 
date they were paid until the date they are repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman