DRN-3705700
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP to switch 
his personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest his pension 
funds in unsuitable assets. 
What happened
Mr D had a personal pension with a well-known pension provider. In March 2013, he signed 
a letter of authority allowing Portal to gather information on his behalf. Portal gathered
information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives on a client information form on
the same day.
According to the document, Mr D was a self-employed window cleaner hoping to retire at
age 65. His pension was then valued at around £28,000. He was 48 years old and lived in a 
property he owned with an outstanding mortgage. He owned a holiday home in Spain. He 
had around £220,000 altogether in mortgages.
Portal set out its advice to Mr D in a suitability report. According to the report, Mr Ds 
objectives were to:
be able to access funds through drawdown in future;
benefit from a potentially higher investment performance;
move away from equities;
move to a cheaper scheme;
have access to a greater investment fund choice; and
be able to pass benefits to his family
Mr Ds risk profile was recorded as moderately-adventurous. Portal recommended that he  
transfer to a SIPP to meet his objectives, and that his funds be invested in thirteen funds. 
The top five holdings (amounting to about 60% of his pension) were:
Lakeview UK Investments
Marbella Resort and Spa
Real Estate Investments USA
Strategic Residential Developments
Motion Picture Global Investments.
Lakeview UK Investments was a five-year bond with an annual return of 11%. Real Estate 
Investments financed the purchasing and refurbishing of property bought from banks and 
paid an annual return of 15%. The Spanish resort was also a fixed interest bond that ran for 
seven years with a fixed interest payment of 7%. The motion picture investments fund was 
concerned with financing films and paid 30% interest in year 3 and 10% thereafter.
The report noted that while the funds invested in can be considered relatively illiquid 
investments they do produce returns that can be used to meet your income requirements 
and as such are considered suitable by Portal Financial.
Portals charges for advice were 5% upfront and 1% a year for ongoing advice, plus 0.5% for
SIPP charges, and additional investment charges. 
Portal said that overall, this strategy would cost more than Mr Ds existing arrangement and 
Whilst the intention is that this will be more than compensated for by the increased growth 
of your pension fund this cannot be guaranteed.
Mr D complained in 2021 after some of his funds were noted as having no value and had not
received interest payments. Portal said Mr D was out of time to complain and should have 
made his complaint sooner, but an ombudsman at this service determined that he had 
complained within our time limits.
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of Mr Ds complaint and thought it should be 
upheld. He said the advice wasnt suitable and that if Mr D hadnt been advised to move his 
investments, he would have stayed with his previous pension provider. He asked Portal to 
calculate whether Mr D had suffered a loss and, if so, to compensate him for that loss. He 
also said Portal should pay Mr D compensation of £500 for the distress caused to him.
Portal has not accepted the investigators view or agreed to carry out the calculation, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before giving advice to Mr D, Portal should have taken reasonable steps to ensure its advice 
was suitable for him. That would involve, amongst other things, obtaining relevant 
information about his financial situation and his investment objectives to be able to 
recommend something that was suitable. And it should have considered whether he was 
able to bear the investment risk, and had the necessary knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks involved.
The suitability report said Mr D wanted to benefit from the features of a SIPP, including lower 
costs and greater access to investments. The SIPP that was recommended didnt lead to 
lower costs. But Ive considered whether the other features would have been of sufficient 
benefit to make it suitable for Mr D, despite the higher charges.
A SIPP would provide more flexibility than the personal pension Mr D had before. But the 
higher charges were likely to reduce the value of his funds. So Id need to see a very good 
reason why those features were needed. From the evidence Ive seen, Im not satisfied the 
benefits of moving to the SIPP were enough to make it suitable for Mr D.
The regulator at the time produced a report in 2014 highlighting good and poor practice in 
the area of pension switches. This restated existing principles so it would have been relevant 
here. The review noted the most common causes of poor practice in pension switching 
including,
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment flexibility,
but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but there was no
evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was flexibility of a drawdown
option, but there was no evidence that this option was needed).
The SIPP left Mr D with higher costs that would have had the effect of reducing the value of 
his pension. It may have provided extra features but I dont think Mr D had a pressing need for them. To have benefited from the advice, Mr D would need the new investments to 
perform better than his previous pension just to stay still. Portal had no reason to know if this 
would happen. And in fact the investments have not performed well.
The fact-find also said Mr D was unhappy with the performance of his current plan and 
preferred investment in property over equities. But theres little evidence of any discussion 
about what alternative funds were available. From the evidence available, it seems the 
transfer gave Mr D a pension with higher costs and benefits that were of little 
immediate advantage to him.
Looking at the nature of the investments, the majority of funds were highly specialised. The 
property investments were poorly diversified, and had a significant chance of failure if a 
resort or single development was involved, while the motion picture investment was highly 
speculative, with its success resting on a few projects in a niche industry.
Portal explained the target returns on each of the secured bonds but I dont think Portal gave 
an adequate explanation of the unregulated nature of these investments and the potential for 
the loss of the entire investment if the fund defaulted. They were niche investments in single 
ventures, where many investors pooled their money to be invested in the specified way.
The FCA has said in previous guidance that investments like this might be suitable for 
certain investors. It gives an example of good practice when advising sophisticated, high net 
worth individuals, limiting investment in unregulated investments to no more than 3%-5% of 
the portfolio, with this being backed-up by robust and on-going monitoring. Portals 
recommendation saw the majority of Mr Ds pension invested in the high risk, potentially 
illiquid funds  far more than the recommended amount.
These were relatively high risk investments. The suitability report warned that the 
investments were illiquid, as once invested in a project of a long term nature it would be 
difficult for Mr D to withdraw. An investment in shares or bonds or even an established 
property fund would be less vulnerable to this. They should have been treated as speculative 
investments for a small part of an investment portfolio but Portal recommended that Mr D 
invest most of his pension into these. Portal said the income payments provided by the 
investments would negate the issue of them being illiquid but that wouldnt be the case if the 
income payments stop, which is what happened here. 
I think Portal had enough information at the time to know these investments were not 
suitable for someone in Mr Ds circumstances. He was an inexperienced investor with a 
modest income and the pension represented his entire retirement savings. I dont consider 
these investments were suitable for Mr D, who didnt fit the profile of the limited group of 
sophisticated high net worth investors for whom unregulated investments may be 
appropriate.
Taking into account all of the above circumstances, I dont think the advice to Mr D to 
transfer his pension into the SIPP and invest the majority of his funds in these high risk 
investments was suitable. I dont think Portal gave much thought to whether it may have 
been in Mr Ds interests to leave his pension where it was. And Im satisfied that if he had 
not been advised to move his pension, he would likely have stayed with his existing provider.
I also agree that Mr D would have been very upset to find out the investments had not 
performed well. This was all of his retirement provision and to find out some of the funds had 
lost all their value  leaving him worried about how much pension he would have for his 
retirement  would have been very distressing. So a compensation payment to reflect this 
distress is reasonable.Putting things right
To compensate Mr D fairly, Portal should do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, pay into Mr D's pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr D wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr D would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr D £500 for the distress this complaint has caused him.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some
liquid/some
illiquidNotional 
value
from 
previous
providerDate of 
transferDate of 
settlement8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance) Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So, the actual value should 
be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal should take ownership of the 
illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
Portal pays should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Portal may require that Mr D provides an undertaking to pay it 
any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr D's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional 
value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr D's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the portfolio, or this is 
something that Mr D can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the portfolio, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that Portal 
pays Mr D an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr D's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay the amount calculated 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman