DRN-3956088
The complaint
Ms V complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has treated her 
unfairly in relation to a purchase she made using her credit card.
What happened
Ms V is represented in her complaint by a relative, but Ill refer to everything thats been said 
on her behalf as if Ms V had said it herself, to keep things simple.
Ms V booked holiday accommodation (the accommodation) with a third party I will refer to 
as V. Ms V used her AESEL credit card to make the booking. V also offers a book with 
confidence guarantee (the guarantee) to all customers who make a booking with it that 
meets the conditions of the guarantee, those customers then become what the guarantee 
calls a protected traveller. On the face of it, Ms V was a protected traveller in relation to this 
booking.
When Ms V and her party arrived at the accommodation they found it to be substandard and 
unsafe which she considered to be both a misrepresentation and a breach of contract. She 
complained to both the owner and V that night and the following day. But they got nowhere.
Therefore after spending one night in the accommodation (Ms V and her party arrived late 
and were travelling with small children so felt compelled to stay that first night) they moved 
out and stayed elsewhere. Ms V had to pay for this alternative accommodation which cost 
more than the accommodation. Ms V asks to be refunded for the cost of the accommodation, 
plus the difference between what the accommodation cost and what the replacement 
accommodation cost.
Dissatisfied with the response from V and the owner, Ms V turned to AESEL to put things 
right. In coming to AESEL Ms V relied on the rights she believes she has against AESEL 
because she used her credit card with it to make the purchase. Specifically, Ms V relied on 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). The general effect of Section 75 
is that if Ms V has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier of 
the goods she can also bring a like claim against AESEL provided certain conditions are 
met. One of these conditions is that there must be a specific type of agreement a debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement. Under this agreement Ms V must be the debtor, AESEL the 
creditor and V the supplier.
AESEL rejected Ms Vs complaint on the grounds that the contract for the supply of the 
accommodation was made between Ms V and the owner of the accommodation. On that 
basis there was no debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in relation to this contract that would 
entitle Ms V to make a valid claim against AESEL under Section 75. 
Ms V was not satisfied with AESELs response and complained to our service.
Once Ms Vs claim was with us AESEL indicated that it was prepared to look at the 
guarantee as that was a contract made directly between Ms V and V which it thought was 
funded by the credit card payment. Moreover the guarantee provided for the refund that Ms 
V wanted. However, it said Ms V had not supplied any evidence of making a claim under the 
guarantee and that V had declined the claim and provided its reasoning.
We asked Ms V if she had any evidence to show she had claimed under the guarantee. Ms 
V merely told us she had complained to V by phone but not that she had followed this up by 
making a claim.
Our investigator did not recommend that Ms Vs complaint ought to be upheld.
AESEL accepted this recommendation, but Ms V did not. Ms V repeated her previous stance 
and asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant regulations, 
law, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Here relevant law 
and regulations include but are not limited to Section 75 and the relevant rules about 
chargeback. Ill look at each in turn.
Section 75
As I have already mentioned in order for Ms V to have a valid claim under Section 75 there 
would need to be a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place. Here I think no 
such agreement exists, The roles of the participants in the booking were clearly set out in the 
terms and conditions on Vs website and by making the booking Ms V agreed to these. 
Specifically those terms and conditions provide.
The Site acts only as a venue for users to interact with each other. Rental contracts are 
concluded only between the Guest and the Host.
Therefore Ms V made her credit card payment to V, but her contract for the rental of the 
accommodation was with the owner of the accommodation who was the supplier. It follows 
Ms V had no valid claim against V under Section 75 in relation to this contract.
That said, on the face of it the guarantee did cover Ms V in these circumstances. But the 
guarantee was very specific about the process requirements for claiming against the 
guarantee. In particular in the process requirement clause in the guarantee said:
In order to obtain any reimbursement for a Loss under the Program, a Protected Traveler 
must comply with the requirements set forth below. Failure to follow these requirements, or 
the taking of any action that impairs [Vs] ability and/or right to mitigate the Loss, or the 
making by any Protected Traveler of any false or misleading statement(s) with respect to any 
request for reimbursement hereunder, may void the Protected Travelers eligibility for 
reimbursement under the Program.
It then listed 8 requirements and I am not satisfied on balance that Ms V demonstrated she 
complied with any of the requirements. I accept on balance that she did call V but as far as I am aware that was not to make a claim under the guarantee. And even if I am mistaken 
about this she has not demonstrated she fulfilled the remaining requirements. Therefore I 
cant fairly or reasonably say the guarantee was misrepresented to her or breached. It 
follows Ive no proper basis to say AESEL ought to have done anything further when I take 
account of the operation of Section 75.
For completeness Ill add, although I make no finding about this, it is not entirely clear that 
the credit card payment Ms V made paid also for the guarantee or whether this was an 
added extra that V gave customers who made a booking. Plus it is not clear if the guarantee 
was made on the part of V or a third party. But I dont need to look into these points in any 
event in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
As Ms V paid for the services using her credit card card and wanted a refund, Ive thought 
about whether AESEL dealt with her request fairly. The chargeback process is relevant in 
this case. Chargeback is a process which in some very specific circumstances allows 
customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there is a problem with goods or services 
that they have paid for using a credit card. This process would not have refunded her 
consequential losses but would have potentially covered her for the cost of the 
accommodation.
Chargebacks are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules There is no automatic right 
to a chargeback. But we consider it is good practice for a financial business to consider 
carrying out a chargeback if its customer asked it to do this or if the circumstances indicated 
it should carry out a chargeback, provided that there is fair chance the chargeback will be 
successful.
If I am to order AESEL to refund all or part of the cost of the services, I must be satisfied that 
it acted incorrectly when I take account of the chargeback regulations. 
But in this instance I think chargeback would not have helped Ms V. This is because the 
chargeback would have been dealt with under the card schemes rules as I already 
mentioned, and they would have required a valid chargeback reason.  V provided the 
services it was meant to provide in relation to acting as a venue for Ms V and the owner of 
the accommodation to contract. Moreover, Ms V would, most likely, have been unable to 
demonstrate V had misled her about the guarantee or not provided what it had promised. 
Therefore, on balance I cant see that there would have been any chargeback reason that 
would have helped Ms V.
I recognise Ms V is likely to be disappointed with my decision. I take on board she had 
young children with her, and she was concerned for their welfare. Moreover, she also had a 
person with her who had an allergy that meant that the conditions in the accommodation 
could have been dangerous to him. She and her party were on holiday and instead of having 
a restful start to their holiday they had to run around looking for new accommodation. Plus I 
recognise shes out of pocket. I dont underestimate any of this and the upset it caused her. 
But my decision brings to an end our powers in trying to resolve her dispute with AESEL
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman