DRN-3499531
The complaint
Mr L has complained, through his representative, about the shares he bought through 
Templeton Securities Limited (an appointed representative of Alexander David Securities 
Limited). The representative has said that the firms failings resulted in Mr L investing in 
shares which were high risk and unsuitable.
What happened
I sent out my provisional decision on this complaint on 10 May 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. I have reproduced part of that provisional decision here, and it 
forms part of this final decision. 
The provisional decision said:
My understanding is that Mr L was advised by an unauthorised firm to open a SIPP and 
transfer his existing personal pension into it. The total amount transferred into the SIPP was 
approximately £24,000. My understanding is that Templeton Securities Limited wasnt 
involved in the advice given to Mr L to switch his pension to the SIPP.
Mr L was then persuaded by another unregulated firm to open an account with Templeton
Securities. He completed an application form on 9 May 2014 for a Private Client Portfolio
account.
On the same date (9 May 2014), Mr L signed a letter of authority for the unregulated firm
allowing it to obtain information about his pension.
When Mr L opened the account he completed a Private Client Portfolio Agreement and 
Application Booklet. These said, amongst other things:
What to expect as a client of Templeton Securities
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as an
independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private client
investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit individual client
needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which will
enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we are
unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
We are required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 {"FSMA") to provide
you with suitable investment advice and services, based on the information you provide to
us about your circumstances. By completing this form in its entirety, you will enable us to
fully comply with the requirements of this Act.
Under the section Important Financial Information it said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and
liabilities, and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when
assessing the suitability of our investment management service we provide...
Please enter details of your total assets and liabilities (Please enter amounts to
the nearest thousand pounds)
Under a list of asset types including Property, Cash, Investment ISAs, Equity Investments
and Investment Bonds, £305,000 was recorded against Property, £20,000 Cash; £23,900
against Pension Plans and £150,000 Other Assets. Mr Ls total assets were recorded as
£498,000, and his net worth as £250,000 after deduction of his total liabilities which were
£280,000. Mr Ls income was noted as £4,500 per month and his expenditure £2,800 per
month.
Under Investment Risk and Objectives it said:
Preferred Level of Portfolio Risk
Please indicate below your preferred level of portfolio risk as part of your overall investment
strategy.
A tick was placed in the Medium/High category.
The section headed Investment Experience asked what types of investment Mr L had 
traded previously and the box Advisory Broking was ticked. When asked to describe his
level of experience for various asset classes, the novice category (less than 1 year) was
ticked for equities, fixed interest and alternative assets. And the intermediate (1-5 years)
for Funds.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of investments
for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we have received and
which I agree to.
The relevant sections of the General Terms and Conditions of Business included:
2 Introduction
2.1 This document contains details of the investment advisory and execution only
services which Templeton Securities (TEMPLETON) shall provide you with our
services in accordance with the Client Application Form, and it sets out the obligations
and rights applying between us and you.
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable Regulations. 
The term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by
the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable
Regulations, the latter will prevail;
A total of £22,890 was transferred into the account on 22 May 2014.
Templeton sent a letter to Mr L dated 20 May 2014. Amongst other things it said:
We are required to classify each of our clients into one of three categories: Retail Client,
Professional Client or Eligible Counterparty. Based on the information available to us, we
have classified you as a Retail Client in respect of all the services we make available to you.
This means you are within the category of clients who receive the highest level of protection
under the regulatory system.
We note your interest in high risk products, investments in smaller companies, in particular
'Penny Shares' and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small unquoted
companies involve a high risk that all or part of your investment may be lost. You may also
have difficulty in selling these shares at a reasonable price and in some circumstances you
may not be able to sell at any price. There can be a big difference between the buying and
selling price and if they have to be sold immediately, you may get back much less than you
paid for them.
On 22 May 2014 Mr L e-mailed Templeton Securities. The e-mail included:
I wish to invest £11,293.00 in Eligere investments plc (ELI) gxg listed securities with a
55 pence limit for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £11,293.00 in Emmitt plc (EMT) aim listed securities with a £1.75 limit
for T1 settlement.
Please advise me via e-mail when this has been transacted.
Templeton Securities bought these shares investing £11,203 in Eligere and £11,228 in
Emmit (including commission and costs). My understanding is that the instruction was
prompted by the one of the unregulated firms who provided Mr L with the wording for it.
Mr L was paid a sum of approximately £6,000 by one of the unregulated firms for the
transaction.
Templeton Securities said it wrote to Mr L on 11 September 2014. The letter said:
Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type of
stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to invest
in such high risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these Execution only but wish to advise that
in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the 
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not benefit 
from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business Rules.
The FCA issued a statement about the promotion of shares in EMMIT on 31 October 2014.
It said it had been made aware that individuals were being encouraged to transfer moneyfrom their work pension schemes into Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) and use
that money to buy shares in Emmit plc. It said some investors were being offered cash
back on their investments in Emmit plc of up to 30% of the transfer value, paid by a third
party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors appeared to have invested 100% of their
pension assets into Emmit plc shares and could suffer significant financial loss if they have
done this without fully understanding what they were doing.
Trading of shares in Emmitt plc and Eligere Investments plc was suspended in May
and June 2015 respectively.
Mr L complained to Alexander David through his representative in January 2020. The
representative said, in brief, that Templeton Securities knew or ought to have known that it
was extremely suspicious to receive multiple almost identical instructions to invest in at least
two non-mainstream companies trading on alternative markets within a short space of
time. It said if proper enquiries had been made it would have become apparent that Mr L
didnt understand the potential risks and consequences of making the investments. And if
they had been pointed out he could have avoided proceeding. It said that it should have
been clear to Templeton Securities that the nature of the investments made were wholly
unsuitable for Mr L. And that Templeton Securities shouldnt have permitted the investments
to be made.
Templeton Securities didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint, and Mr Ls representative referred the
complaint to us. One of our investigators considered the complaint. He recommended that it
should be upheld. In summary, he thought that the circumstances of the transaction ought to
have alerted Templeton Securities that something unusual and perhaps concerning was
going on as they had received a number of similarly worded execution only e-mails in a short
space of time. He thought if Templeton Securities had looked into the matter it wouldve
seen Mr L was a novice investor when it came to equities and he was investing his entire
pension provision. He thought this was inconsistent with the information Templeton
Securities held on Mr L, and had it investigated as it was obliged to do it shouldnt have
allowed the purchase to go ahead.
The investigator said that Templeton Securities had to comply with the Regulators Principles
which included conducting business with care and due diligence; acting in the best interest
of their customer; and, above all, treating them fairly. The investigator didnt think Templeton
Securities had acted in line with the Principles because, if it had, it wouldve uncovered the
pattern of execution only requests and intervened to investigate further. On doing so and
identifying the clear risk to Mr L, it should have acted in his best interests by declining the
transaction. He said by failing to do so it had breached the regulators guidelines and caused
Mr L a significant financial loss.
Mr L, through his representative, said he accepted the investigators findings and had
nothing further to add.
Alexander David/Templeton Securities didnt respond to the investigators assessment.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one
or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1R).Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments
(article 25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to
provide advice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only
sale.
Ive therefore read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to
provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint. When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct
Authoritys Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at
the relevant time.
When evidence is incomplete Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities 
which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is most likely to have happened
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
My understanding is that both shares were allowable as per the SIPP Permitted
Investment document.
The documentation and literature that was provided at the time that the Private Client
Portfolio account was opened clearly described it as providing an advisory service. However,
whilst the account was advisory, the terms did also provide for Templeton Securities to
accept execution only instructions in some circumstances.
Clause 6.4 came under the heading Appropriateness. Clause 6.1 said we may be subject
to an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the
contemplated product or service. I think this is reference to the requirements under COBS
10 (the regulators Conduct of Business Rules). My understanding is the shares bought here
werent subject to COBS 10. But Clause 6.4 went onto say:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that
transaction, you are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only
basis. Where the transaction relates to non-complex financial instruments such as shares,
bonds and UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order on that
basis and we will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate
for you.
And Clause 3.1 provided:
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in
a non- complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or
product investment recommendations. [My emphasis].The documentation that has been provided doesnt show that Mr L was designated as
an execution-only client. However Clause 3.1 and 6.4 provided an alternative basis for
carrying out execution only services as highlighted. And Clauses 3.1 and 4.9 went onto
say:
You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when you engage our
services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility on a
continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions.
Given the particular wording of the 21 May 2014 e-mail, I think Templeton Securities was
entitled to reasonably believe that Mr L wasnt expecting advice about the merits of the
transaction. It was an order to buy particular shares and at a particular price, on a
specific settlement basis. I dont think there was anything in the e-mail that suggested that
Mr L was asking for advice about the merits of the purchases or otherwise suggested that
Mr L was expecting Templeton Securities to give him advice. I think this is consistent with
the transaction been driven by the unregulated firm(s). Templeton Securities wasnt
therefore accepting responsibility for the investment decision executed on an execution only
basis as per Clause 3.1. And it carried out the instruction as per Clause 4.9.
Clause 6.4 of the terms said that Templeton Securities would write to Mr L where it
executed a transaction in non-complex financial instruments to inform him it had placed the
order on that basis. Templeton Securities didnt do this at the time. It says it did write to
Mr L on 11 September 2014 which I will consider further below.
Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. We
have received a number of complaints against Templeton Securities representing
Alexander David, about very similar transactions that all happened at around the same
time.
Its apparent that Templeton Securities received a number of requests to open this type
of advisory account with it, all within a relatively short period. And very shortly after the
accounts were opened e-mailed instructions with almost identical wording were sent to
Templeton Securities asking to invest in these same two shares (and in some cases
one other share).
By the time that Templeton Securities received Mr Ls e-mail (22 May 2014), it had already
received several other e-mails since the previous day, from different investors, all with near
identical wording. The e-mails were sent to the same person at Templeton Securities (who I
understand held the CF30 function with Alexander David Securities at that time). Templeton
Securities/Alexander David should have copies of these e-mails on their files. However
details (to the degree that it is appropriate to provide) of these e-mails can be requested
from the investigator if required.
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that
duty wasnt unqualified. Firstly, it had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any 
order or instruction from Mr L as provided in Clause 3.7 of the Terms and Conditions. 
Second, it had an obligation to comply with the FCAs rules.
As I have set out above, the accounts Terms and Conditions included:2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable Regulations.
The term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by
the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable
Regulations, the latter will prevail.
So the duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the Terms and Conditions as
an overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those Terms.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through
application of its Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton
Securities was providing regulated financial services and was bound by these Principles and
other Rules. This is consistent with the accounts terms and conditions.
As the investigator said, in British Bankers Association v The Financial Services Authority &
Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules
are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach
a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be fair
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about
their relationship to specific rules.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the Principles which I think
are relevant to this complaint. In my view they are Principles 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of
its customers and treat them fairly.Im obliged to consider the Principles and as I set out above this was recognised by the
courts in the case British Bankers Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin). That the Principles must always be complied with has also been
confirmed by Jacob J in Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration v Financial Ombudsman
Service [2018] WHC 2878 (Admin) at paragraph 134. The Principles are not just guidance
but rules in their own right and it is established that firms must comply with them, and I have
considered them in that context. And as I have said above, the duty to comply with the
FCAs rules was provided in the Terms and Conditions as an overriding duty that prevailed
over anything to the contrary in those Terms.
Ive therefore considered the FCAs Principles in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances of this complaint. Ultimately, I need to consider whether in conducting this
business Templeton Securities complied with these Principles. Ive considered the matter in
the context of the wider circumstances as I have described in considering Templeton
Securities obligations; that Templeton Securities was receiving a number of e-mails sent to
the same person; there was a pattern of remarkably similar worded execution only
instructions from different clients with SIPP accounts it was being asked to process, in the
same niche shares, on non-mainstream markets, and within a reasonably short period of
time.
I think in these circumstances a stockbroker, acting reasonably, ought to have been alerted
that something unusual and concerning might be going on. In my view, the circumstances
ought to have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in the normal processing
of the transaction and take a closer look behind it.
If it had done so, it would have identified that the instructions were coming from ordinary
retail customers who:
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of time from 
opening were all sending execution only instructions to make their first investment;
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in these same niche shares 
presenting significant risks; they werent the type of investments that you would 
normally expect to form the significant part of anyones pension provision;
had sent almost identically worded instructions to invest in the same niche shares, 
suggesting these retail consumers may be being systematically advised by someone 
to buy these shares and on how to go about it.
And this was in the context that:
Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And a 
regulated firm giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions 
themselves so as to charge dealing commission. It raised the possibility of serious 
malpractice if an unauthorised person was giving investment advice in breach of s19 
of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
The number of instructions to purchase two niche shares, specifying particular days 
for settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly unconnected 
retail customers. Including settlement details in their instructions was not only unusual 
but served no obvious purpose from a pension investors point of view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an unauthorized 
person was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension funds in the shares of one or two small, obscure companies: an FCA-authorised firm would have regulatory 
obligations not to give unsuitable investment advice, and would be unlikely to find 
such shares a suitable pension investment for many (if any) of their clients, let alone a 
string of clients, and all at around the same time.
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Mr Ls instructions ought 
reasonably to have caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction. If 
it had done so, and looked at the information it already had available through the account 
opening documentation, it would have seen that the £23,900 invested in the SIPP 
represented Mr Ls entire pension provision. He did have other assets valued at £150,000, 
but it didnt record what these were. And it was recorded that that Mr Ls preferred level of 
risk was Medium/High, and experience wise he was a novice investor in equities.
Mr Ls instructions to invest his entire pension into two niche shares, presenting significant 
risks, was at odds with his financial circumstances as listed, inconsistent with him being a 
novice investor in equities, with a likely limited understanding of the investments, and 
preferring a Medium/High level of risk.
Given these inconsistencies, I think Templeton Securities should have recognised that the 
investments were likely to be unsuitable for Mr L. And that Mr Ls placing of the unsuitable 
order wasnt a result of some idiosyncrasy of Mr L himself, because others were giving 
virtually identical instructions in similar circumstances. There was plainly likely to be a third 
party behind all the instructions.
So in this context, is it reasonable to think that Templeton Securities should have 
discovered that the source of the numerous and similarly worded instructions to buy the 
niche shares came from an unregulated source?
Templeton Securities has said the unregulated firms werent known to it. And it never had 
any discussions or agreements with either of them. It said it had no knowledge of or 
arrangement of any kind for the introduction of business or otherwise.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest there was any formal arrangement between 
Templeton Securities and either of the unregulated firms.
However there is a Form of Authority relating to one of the unregulated firms on 
Templeton Securities file that was signed by Mr L and dated 9 May 2014. Such a form was 
on the majority of the complaints that have been referred to the Ombudsman Service. But 
irrespective of that, I think there were clear warning signs in the existing information that 
Templeton Securities already had available to it. And on making further enquiries with Mr L 
and other clients directly, it would have become apparent that an unauthorised person was 
advising clients to invest in these shares and helping them do so; giving investment advice 
and arranging deals in investments in breach of s19 of The Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000. I dont think Mr L or the other clients would have reason not to tell Templeton 
Securities who had recommended the transactions and the unregulated firms role if 
Templeton Securities had asked the question and pointed out the reasons for its concern.
In this context, I think Templeton Securities should have identified that Mr L and other 
clients were probably being given regulated investment advice by a firm which lacked 
authorisation to give the advice, and that an unregulated firm(s) were probably breaching 
the general prohibition under s.19. On making reasonable enquiries it would have
discovered that the advice in Mr Ls case was inconsistent with his circumstances and 
unsuitable for his pension fund, and that executing his instructions was entirely contrary to 
his best interests. In these circumstances I think it should have exercised its discretion to 
decline to accept the instruction.So I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under Principles 2, 3 and 6. I think
if it had conducted its business with skill care and diligence and took reasonable care to
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk
management systems, it should have identified the unusual pattern of execution only
requests and intervened to take a closer look at the transaction. If it had done so, in the
circumstances as I have described, I think it should have spotted the clear risks to Mr L,
and, acting in his best interests, exercised its discretion to decline to accept his instruction.
Taking all the circumstances into account, I consider that Templeton Securities
unreasonably accepted Mr Ls instruction when it had the opportunity and obligation
to prevent the purchase of the shares.
Given that I think Templeton Securities failed to meet its regulatory obligations, I need to
decide whether its failings caused the losses that Mr L has claimed. So Ive considered
what Mr L would likely have done if Templeton Securities had declined to carry out his
instruction, particularly given that the incentive represented a significant proportion of the
amount invested and that it could have been used to pay off some of Mr Ls liabilities.
Mr L has told us that he was unemployed at the time of the transaction and that he thinks the
income recorded on the application form was in respect of severance pay from his old
employer. He said he cannot recall what the Other Assets valued at £150,000 noted on the
form were. However that he did hold two properties overseas (in his country of birth), albeit
he doesnt think they were worth that amount. Mr L said the £305,000 property on the
application form was a buy to let property which he had a 50% share in. And the £250,000
liability recorded on the form was a mortgage on the buy-to let property  his share of that
liability being £125,000. The £30,000 liability was for personal loans and credit cards.
Mr L also said he was employed as an associate for a firm working in global markets. We
asked Mr L what his responsibilities were in this role, and he said it was mainly providing
analysis and research to be included in business pitches. He said he didnt have any
financial qualifications. In relation to the £6,000 payment that Mr L received from one of the
unregulated introducers, Mr L said it was spent on general living expenses.
On the one hand Mr L had already transferred his money to the SIPP and switched money
into the advisory account with Templeton Securities. So if Templeton Securities had declined
to accept the instruction Mr L would have had practical difficulties if he still wanted to buy the
shares; he would have needed to find another broker and get the SIPP provider to
open another account to enable him to do so.
However on the other, I recognise the influence of the unregulated firms who appeared to be
driving the transactions in the background. The payment of £6,000 from one of the
unregulated firms could have been motivation for Mr L to want to continue to buy the same
shares, irrespective of the actions of Templeton Securities and therefore the practical
difficulties of doing so.
Templeton Securities said it sent a letter to Mr L dated 20 May 2014 which said amongst
other things that it noted his interest in high risk products, investments in smaller
companies, in particular 'Penny Shares' and investments that are not readily realisable e.g.
small unquoted companies, involve a high risk that all or part of your investment may be
lost.
However my understanding is this was an introductory letter and, regardless of whether the
new client was low, medium or high risk, it was a generic paragraph that was included in the
letter to give a general warning of trading in high risk shares. Ive currently seen no evidencethat Mr L had expressed an interest in high risk products, investments in smaller
companies, in particular 'Penny Shares' and investments that are not readily realisable. And
when he opened his account the documentation showed he had limited experience of
investments and was a novice investor in equities.
I think its likely Mr L would have lost trust in the unregulated firm(s) if Templeton
Securities, as a regulated firm, had said it wouldnt process his instruction and its reasons
for not doing so. When Mr L opened his account the documentation showed he had limited
experience of investments, was a novice investor in equities and his preferred level of risk
was Medium/High. So the investments were out of character and werent consistent with an
investment in these high-risk shares.
Given the significant risk of loss of the amount invested in the shares, approximately
£22,400, relative to the £6,000 payment; the practical difficulties of buying the shares if
Templeton Securities had declined his instruction, that Mr L hadnt got a history of this type
of investment and that Mr L had indicated his preferred level of risk was Medium/High, I
think, on balance, its unlikely that Mr L would have invested in Emmit and Eligere had it not
been for Templeton Securities failings.
In its final response letter dated 10 March 2020 Templeton Securities said it wrote to Mr L
on 11 September 2014 concerning the suitability of the investments. A copy of that specific
letter hasnt been provided with the firms file, however my understanding is the letter said:
Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type of
stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to invest
in such high risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these Execution only but wish to advise that
in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not benefit
from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business Rules.
Ive thought about whether Mr L should have taken action to mitigate his losses on receipt
of this letter in September 2014.
The letter was about the Emmit shares only. It did say the shares were high risk, but it said
the investor should consider whether or not they felt they were appropriate for them. It was
relatively brief. It did draw the investors attention to the high-risk nature of the investment.
And that Templeton Securities hadnt assessed suitability. But the letter didnt indicate there
were any particular problems with the investment. So I dont think the wording was
sufficiently strong or specific such as it ought to have prompted Mr L to act.
As I said, the letter only referred to Emmit; Eligere wasnt mentioned in any event. My
understanding is that the Emmit share price was around 132.50p at that time. A sale at that
price would still have represented a significant loss for Mr L, albeit in hindsight hed have
avoided the total loss of his investment which he now faces. But selling wouldve crystallised
a loss. And I dont know if Mr L wouldve been able to sell and, if so, at what price. A
sudden and large volume of sell instructions might not have been possible for the market to
accommodate and is likely to have impacted adversely on the share price  I bear in mind
that Templeton Securities appears to have written to other investors at about the same time.
Taking all the above into account, I dont think it would be fair to conclude that Mr L should
have taken action to mitigate his losses on receipt of the 11 September 2014 letter. I thinkthe onus was on Templeton Securities to do more, and but for Templeton Securities
shortcomings Mr L wouldnt have been invested in the shares in the first place.
So I think Mr Ls losses flow from the failure of Templeton Securities to meet its
regulatory obligations. And I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for
Templeton Securities to pay compensation to Mr L for the losses that resulted from
those failings.
Weve been told that the FCA conducted an investigation into Templeton Securities with
regard to Emmit, including a full review of all telephone calls and e-mails but
then dropped the investigation, deciding that there was no case to answer and no
wrongdoing found on Templeton Securities part. Ive seen a copy of a letter sent by the FCA
to Alexander David about that investigation, but on the face of it I dont think the FCA were
investigating the same matter. In the absence of full details of that investigation, Im not
persuaded it changes my findings as set out above. Im considering if Templeton Securities
met its obligations to Mr L in its dealing with him. For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think it
did.
Applying sections 27 and 28 FSMA
I have also examined a separate basis upon which Templeton Securities may be responsible
for the same losses. Ive considered the findings in the Court of Appeal case Adams v
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP. In deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable
in the circumstances, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into
account, amongst other things, relevant law and regulations. In doing so Ive considered the
facts of this case in light of the legal principles expounded by the Court of Appeal in the
recent case Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, which I think are relevant.
The court considered, amongst other things, the application of sections 27 and 28 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
In summary, s27 may apply where an authorised person makes an agreement with
another person in the course of carrying out a regulated activity, which was a
consequence of something said or done by an unregulated party acting in breach of the
general prohibition (s19 of FSMA). S27 provides that an agreement to which it applies is
unenforceable against the other party, and sets out what the other party can recover.
S28 of FSMA provides the court with the discretion to allow an agreement to which
s.27 applies to be in any event enforced, if it considers it is just and equitable to do
so.
The relevant parts of section 27 and 28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 provide:
27 Agreements made through unauthorised persons.
(1) This section applies to an agreement that 
(a) is made by an authorised person (the provider) in the course of carrying on a regulated
activity,
(d) is made in consequence of something said or done by another person (the third party)
in the course of
(i) a regulated activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general prohibition,
(1A) An agreement to which this section applies is unenforceable against the other party.
(2) The other party is entitled to recover
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; and(b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted with it.
(3)Agreement means an agreement
(a) made after this section comes into force; and
(b) the making or performance of which constitutes, or is part of, the regulated activity in
question carried on by the provider.
28 Agreements made unenforceable by section 26 or 27 [general cases].
(1) This section applies to an agreement which is unenforceable because of section
26 or 27, other than an agreement entered into in the course of carrying on a credit related
regulated activity.
(2) The amount of compensation recoverable as a result of that section is
(a) the amount agreed by the parties; or
(b) on the application of either party, the amount determined by the court.
(3) If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the case, it may
allow
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
(4) In considering whether to allow the agreement to be enforced or (as the case may be)
the money or property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained the court
must
(b) if the case arises as a result of section 27, have regard to the issue mentioned in
subsection (6).
(6) The issue is whether the provider knew that the third party was (in carrying on the
regulated activity) contravening the general prohibition.
(7) If the person against whom the agreement is unenforceable
(a) elects not to perform the agreement, or
(b) as a result of this section, recovers money paid or other property transferred by him
under the agreement, he must repay any money and return any other property received by
him under the agreement.
(8) If property transferred under the agreement has passed to a third party, a reference in
section 26 or 27 or this section to that property is to be read as a reference to its value at
the time of its transfer under the agreement.
The Court of Appeal decided that s27 of FSMA applied in the circumstances of that case.
So it went onto consider s28 (3) - would it be just and equitable, in the circumstances of
the case, to allow the agreement to be enforced/ the money and property paid or
transferred under the agreement to be retained. In deciding the matter s28 (4) required it to
consider s28(6)  did the provider know the third party was contravening the general
prohibition? It considered whether this meant actual knowledge of it or constructive
knowledge. And decided it meant actual knowledge. It found that Carey didnt have actual
knowledge. But then it went onto say:
Where a provider actually knew that the general prohibition was being breached, that
must weigh heavily against use of the power conferred by section 28(3) of FSMA. If, on
the other hand, a provider lacked such knowledge, it may still be appropriate to deny
relief under section 28(3). And
Likewise, meeting the requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief
should be granted. Amongst the factors that it may be proper to take into account is
whether the provider should reasonably have known that the general prohibition was being 
contravened.
The court decided, on the particular facts of the case, not to exercise the discretion
provided to it in s28. It didnt think it was just and equitable to grant Carey relief undersection 28(3) of FSMA. It referred to the surrounding circumstances that it thought ought
to have given reason for Carey to be concerned about the possibility of the unregulated
firm arranging and advising on investments, even though it didnt in fact appreciate that
the general prohibition was being contravened.
The court made the following comments:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions,
there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their own
folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr Adams caused his
own losses and misled Carey; and
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto
the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and
being required to return money and other property and to pay compensation regardless of
whether they had had knowledge of third parties contraventions of the general
prohibition.
Ive considered Mr Ls complaint in light of the Courts findings. For s27 of FSMA to
apply, an agreement must have been made by an authorised person (here, Templeton
Securities) in consequence of a contravention of the general prohibition by a third party
(here the unregulated firm(s)).
Given the facts of Mr Ls complaint and the surrounding circumstances as I have set out
above, I think its most likely the unregulated firm(s) was/were breaching the general
prohibition by arranging deals in and advising on investments  articles 25 and 53 of the
Regulated Activities Order. And I think the advice and the unregulated firm(s) actions in
providing Mr L with his draft purchase instruction clearly played a crucial part in Mr L
buying the shares. As I have explained, I think its hardly likely that so many ordinary retail
clients would suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest in these two little known niche
shares at around the same time. So I think a court would find that s27 applies, and Mr L
can (subject to s.28), recover the monies he invested through his agreement with
Templeton Securities when it accepted his instructions to purchase the shares and the
investment losses he sustained.
Ive therefore gone onto consider s28.
I think the overriding question is that set out in s.28(3); whether it would be just and
equitable in the circumstances of the case to allow enforcement of the agreement or
retention of the price paid. The significance of s.28(4) and (6) is to require the court to
have regard to whether the firm knew the third party was breaching the general
prohibition. But as the Court of Appeal emphasised, meeting the requirements of section
28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief should be granted. So whilst it has to be taken
into account, it doesnt make that factor necessarily determinative.
Equally, the question of whether the firm should reasonably have known the general
prohibition was being breached is something that it may be proper to take into account,
but it is also not a determinative test, just a potentially relevant circumstance in some
cases.
I think in deciding s28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Mr Ls case, the court
would, as it did in Adams v Options, look at all the circumstances in the round.For the reasons I set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that
should have reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients were
being systematically put in harms way; being given the same seemingly irresponsible
advice by a common, unknown source. As I have said, I dont think Templeton Securities
acted reasonably when ignoring those signals of potential wrongdoing. And I think whilst
the court would take into account it may not have had actual knowledge of the breach, I
think, looking at the circumstances in the round, had it acted reasonably rather than
ignore those clear warnings it would have discovered the breach on making reasonably
enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to
allow Templeton Securities relief under s28. And therefore Mr L could recover his money
under s27.
Accordingly, my provisional decision was that I thought it was fair and reasonable to uphold
Mr Ls complaint on either of the bases I had outlined; that is, that Templeton Securities had
failed to meet its regulatory obligation under the Principles. And that its likely that a court
would decide that Mr L could recover his money under s27. I went on to set out how I
thought Alexander David should calculate fair compensation and pay it to Mr L.
I asked Mr L and Alexander David to provide any further evidence or arguments that they
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision.
Mr Ls representative said Mr L accepted the provisional decision.
Alexander David Securities Limited responded to say, in summary that it thought the
provisional decision missed fundamental issues and had failed to take fully into account:
Conditions precedent regarding previous Financial Ombudsman Service rulings.
That the FCA had conducted a thorough investigation into TS Capital in regard to 
Eligere and Emmit including a full review of all telephone calls and e-mails. The FCA 
had dropped the investigation as it decided there was no case to answer. No 
wrongdoing had been found.
TS Capital had accepted and undertook the instruction for the transaction on an 
execution only basis. It hadnt agreed to provide advisory services as per clause 3.2 
in its terms and conditions.
The account was a trust account opened by a regulated SIPP provider. Mr L was the 
beneficiary with powers to undertake transactions. At the time of Mr Ls instruction, it 
wasnt unreasonable for TS Capital to accept the instruction and to conclude that it 
was an ordinary transaction(s) for investments listed on recognised exchanges.
The terminology in the instruction wasnt necessarily technical for someone who had 
previously made any direct stock market investment. The nature of the instruction 
wasnt in itself, or in a series, necessarily unusual, given the account was opened 
with it by a regulated firm and clients could and did obtain and undertake investment 
research through a variety of mediums. This included web and internet forums, tip 
services etc. At the point of the transaction it was unaware of any issues with the 
investments.
TS Capital wasnt aware of the payment of £6,000. It said this was a pension 
liberation attempt, and Mr Ls version of events surrounding the payment wasnt consistent with the known facts surrounding this issue as highlighted by the FCAs 
alert in October 2014. It said the key trigger of the scam was a promise of a 
cashback. It thought this was the motivation for Mr L to transfer and subsequently 
send specific instructions to buy the shares in question. It thought the ability to 
liberate some of his pension savings prior to the dates he was allowed to access his 
pension was the most likely reason for the investments.
The facts in the court case Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (formerly 
Options Sipp UK LLP and Carey Pensions) were entirely distinguishable from the 
subject matter of Mr Ls claim. Mr L had approached TS Capital directly, and TS 
Capital had no arrangement in place with any person who may have advised Mr L 
beforehand.
It didnt accept that relief should not be provided under s28 (3). It said the 
introduction(s) all came directly from a regulated pension provider, they were 
technically the account holder and Mr L a beneficiary. It didnt believe that it was 
unreasonable to undertake and accept the specific execution only instructions from 
Mr L or the other clients at that time. Or for TS Capital to be unaware that an 
unregulated entity was contravening the general prohibition at the point the 
instruction was received and the investment was made.
It became aware of general market concerns (I understand about Emmit) in 
September 2014, and acting reasonably it sent a letter to Mr L to raise awareness as 
to the potential suitability of the transaction. It thought this letter should have caused 
Mr L to question the investment at around this time. It said Mr L was obliged to have 
mitigated his position and sell the shares prior to their suspension. It thought this was 
the date that any fair and reasonable award should be calculated at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Mr
Ws complaint.
In respect of the further evidence and arguments made by the firm:
The response to the provisional decision referred to TS Capital. The firm was trading 
as Templeton Securities Limited at the time of the event that the complaint is about. 
Ive taken the references to TS Capital as appropriately referring to Templeton 
Securities Limited at the relevant time.
It said my provisional decision didnt take into account previous Financial 
Ombudsman Service rulings. It didnt say which rulings, but Im aware that on other 
cases it has referred to assessments issued by our adjudicators. Those cases were 
resolved at an informal stage in our process by our adjudicators and on the facts as 
they understood them. They werent decided by a final decision issued by an 
Ombudsman. Ive made my decision on Mr Ls case on the basis of what I consider 
are all the relevant circumstances to decide what I consider be fair and reasonable 
given all the evidence and arguments available.
As I noted in my provisional decision, weve previously been told about the FCA 
investigation into Templeton Securities with regard to Emmit. I said Id seen a copy of a letter sent by the FCA to Alexander David about that investigation, but on the face 
of it I didnt think the FCA were investigating the same matter. We have asked for 
fuller details of the FCAs investigation in other cases and no further detail has been 
provided. And no further information has been provided in response to this 
provisional decision. Given I have seen no further details, Im not persuaded it 
changes my findings as set out above. Im considering if Templeton 
Securities/Alexander David met its obligations to Mr L in its dealing with him. For the 
reasons Ive set out, I dont think it did.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I accept that Templeton Securities 
undertook the instruction for the transaction on an execution only basis. However I 
dont think Templeton Securities wider obligations were diluted because the 
regulated SIPP Provider was technically the account owner; this wasnt unusual, and 
the instruction to invest came directly from Mr L. Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
that the SIPP provider was involved in the instructions to invest.
I accept that the terminology in the instruction may not necessarily have been 
technical for someone who had previously made direct stock market investment. And 
that investors can obtain tips/do their own research from the variety of mediums 
mentioned by Templeton. So it might receive a number of orders for a particular 
investment at around the same time. But the situation here was that a series of        
e-mails were all sent to the same specific person, with near identical technical 
wording, giving very specific instructions to invest in particular niche shares. I think 
this suggested there was likely to be a single source behind the instructions. And that 
its clients were being systematically advised by a third party to buy these shares, and 
on how to go about it. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I think the 
series of e-mails should have alerted Templeton Securities that something unusual 
might be going on, and ought to have been a trigger for it to intervene in the normal 
processing of Mr Ls instruction and take a closer look behind it. And having done so 
it would have identified the role of the unregulated firm(s).
Templeton Securities letter to Mr L in September 2014 wasnt related to Mr Ls 
investment in Eligere. And for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont 
think the content of the letter was such that Mr L ought to have sold the shares (in 
Emmit or Eligere), or that he acted unreasonably by not selling them. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to say that compensation should be calculated on the 
basis that Mr L should have sold his shares following receipt of that letter.
I accept the payment of £6,000 may not have been known to Templeton Securities 
when it processed the instruction. I dont think this was a pension liberation attempt 
as such, but as I said in my provisional decision, I recognise that the unregulated 
firms were driving the transaction, and the cash sum of £6,000 would have been a 
motivating factor for Mr L. However I think irrespective of the motivation behind it, if 
Templeton Securities had intervened in the processing, and said it wouldnt process 
Mr Ls instruction, Mr L would have had to re-assess his options. And for the reasons 
I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think he would have gone on to invest in 
Emmit or Eligere.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs 
Handbook to take into account, amongst other things, relevant law and regulations. 
Although the facts of Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP might be different, 
Ive considered the courts findings in the context of the facts of this case, and I think 
they are relevant. For the reasons I set out above and in my provisional decision, I think Templeton Securities ought to have been alerted there was something unusual 
going on, and made further enquiries about the investment instructions. And on doing 
so it would have identified it was likely an unregulated firm was breaching the general 
prohibition. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think a court 
would find it was just and equitable to allow Templeton Securities relief under s28 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. And find that Mr L could recover his 
money under s27.
So for the reasons I have set out above, I think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr L as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if Templeton Securities had not
agreed to purchase the shares for Mr Ls account.
If it had done so I think Mr L, having already completed the switch of his pension to the
SIPP, would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given
Mr L's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Alexander David Securities Limited do?
To compensate Mr L fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr L's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value no 
compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr L's pension plan,
to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David
Securities Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr L's
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into
the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected marginal rate of
tax at his selected retirement age.
I think Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age. So the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.investmentBenchmarkfrom
(start date)           to
(end date)additional 
interest
The amounts 
invested in 
Eligere 
(£11,203) and 
Emmit 
(£11,228)  
including 
charges, less 
a deduction 
of £6,000  
divided 
equally - so 
£3,000 from 
each.FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;The date 
of 
purchase 
of each  
shareDate of a 
final 
decision8% simple a
year from date
of a final decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr Ls 
acceptance of
this decision
The deduction of £6,000 reflects the payment that was made to Mr L and which he has
had use of.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Pay Mr L £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has caused 
him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr 
L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David
Securities Limited should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted
from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual
value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David
Securities Limited may wish to require that Mr L provides an undertaking to pay it anyamount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan.
Alexander David Securities Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced
a return using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Mr L would have invested. Mr L had indicated he was willing to
take a medium/high degree of risk. But it appears this was largely driven by the unregulated
firm. Mr L had already switched his money to the SIPP. I think if Templeton Securities had
refused to accept Mr Ls instructions he could have sought suitable advice from it on how to
invest his pension. Given his particular circumstances including his capacity for risk, I think
he would have been advised to invest at medium risk.
I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable
proxy for the degree of risk I think its likely that Mr L would have been recommended and
he would have agreed to take.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
I think it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ls complaint on either of the bases I have 
outlined in my provisional decision and as set out above; that is, that Templeton Securities 
failed to meet its regulatory obligation under the Principles. And that its likely a court would 
decide that Mr B could recover his money under s27. 
Accordingly, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr L as I 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman