DRN-2883006
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Miss B. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1997 alongside a store credit account. 
Miss B was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Miss B has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
The form, which Miss B signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make by 
ticking a box. So I think it likely Miss B understood she had a choice. 
There is a tick in the box where you request PPI, but Miss B says she wasnt asked 
about PPI and the box must have been ticked by a member of staff, who would have 
received commission. I accept this is possible, but because this happened about 24 
years ago, I have also to consider that Miss B might not now remember fully all the 
details of the transaction  so, although shes certain she didnt tick the box, I cant 
know how much I can rely fully on what she now recalls. And, if Im to say the member 
of staff did something wrong, such as secretly ticking the box, Id need reasonable 
evidence of it  and I dont have enough evidence to fairly say this happened. 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Miss Bs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would have been for Miss B to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Miss B clear and fair information, so she could make 
an informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other 
information was given to Miss B, if any. So Ive thought about whether better 
information is likely to have made a difference. But, in Miss Bs circumstances at the 
time, even if shed been given all the necessary information, I dont think its likely to 
have made a difference to her decision. I say this because its likely that the PPI would 
have lasted longer than her full employer sick pay, and would have paid out on top of 
that or any redundancy pay. It would have put off the time shed need to fall back on 
savings and the other family help shes mentioned. Also it doesnt look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is 
likely still to have seemed potentially useful, and better information probably wouldnt 
have made a difference to whether or not Miss B took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman