DRN-3107739
The complaint
Ms O complains that IG Markets Limited did not tell her that her stop loss order would not 
execute after market hours. She says IG Markets should pay her US$2,250 for the loss 
shes made.
What happened
On 22 February 2021, Ms O placed a stop loss order to sell a holding of shares, which I will 
refer to as C. She set the price at US$50. She submitted the order online around an hour 
before the US market closed and when the shares were trading at above US$50.
The order was executed when the US market opened the following day when C shares were 
trading at below US$50. Ms O received US$35 for each share. She says the order should 
have been triggered after the market closed when she would have obtained the price she 
wanted.
IG Markets said it was only possible to trade C shares during market opening hours and that 
Ms Os order was correctly triggered when the share price moved passed the level she had 
set.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
IG Markets had acted in line with its terms and conditions.
Ms O didnt agree. She said, in summary, that IG Markets should have told her that its stop 
loss orders dont work after market hours.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator, for the 
following reasons:
The market trading hours for C shares are 2.30pm to 9pm UK time. Whilst some trading will 
take place outside of these hours, deals are not carried out on exchange. Potential buyers 
and sellers are electronically matched. 
IG Markets terms and conditions say (4 (1)):
You may request a quote to open a Transaction or to close all or any part of a Transaction 
at any time during our normal hours of trading for the Instrument in respect of which you 
wish to open or close the Transaction. Outside those hours, we will be under no obligation to 
but may, at our absolute discretion, provide a quote and accept and act on your offer to open 
or close a Transaction.
Whilst this term is not specifically about stop loss orders, I think it makes it reasonably clear 
that IG Markets will generally only trade during market hours.
IG Markets has provided the information that is shown on its website about C shares. This 
includes the trading hours for the shares  14.30-21.00. I think it is reasonably clear that 
the shares would only be traded during these hours.
I fully understand Ms O wanted to protect herself from price movements during out of hours 
(off-exchange) trading. But it is usual practice for orders such as stop loss and limit orders to 
be triggered during market opening hours only. Theres nothing in IG Markets terms and 
conditions, or on its website, to suggest that a stop loss order could be triggered outside of 
market trading hours. Prices outside of market trading hours can be much more volatile, 
making trading riskier, and I would expect IG Markets to have made it clear if orders were 
going to be triggered outside of trading hours.
I dont find there was any obligation on IG Markets to attempt to trade Ms Os order outside 
of market trading hours. Her requested price of US$50 wasnt reached before the market 
closed on 22 February. When the market re-opened the following morning, her order was 
correctly triggered. Unfortunately, the best available market price was below Ms Os desired 
price. But I dont find IG Markets did anything wrong here, so I cant ask it to reimburse her 
for the loss she feels shes made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman