DRN-3882279
The complaint
Mr D complains about charges arising from advice given by Profile Financial Solutions 
Limited (Profile) to switch his two existing personal pension plans to a SIPP (self invested 
personal pension) with a new provider. 
What happened
Mr D had two pension arrangements with a major provider. In April 2016 Profile advised him 
to switch both plans into a SIPP with a new provider. 
Mr Ds representative complained to Profile in 2018 on Mr Ds behalf. But Profile didnt 
receive the letter of complaint dated 29 August 2018. So Profile wasnt aware of Mr Ds 
complaint until we contacted it, the complaint having been referred to us in the absence of 
any final response having been received. The complaint then made was that Profile had 
given Mr D unsuitable advice in 2016 to transfer his existing pension arrangement into a 
SIPP to invest in unregulated investments. 
Profile issued its final response on 20 March 2019. Profile didnt uphold the complaint. It said 
it didnt recommended transfers into unregulated products. Its adviser had identified Mr D as 
a conservative investor and had recommended a transfer into a LV Flexible Guaranteed 
Series 2 Fund, which Profile deemed suitable for a that type of investor. In June 2019 Mr Ds 
representative asked to withdraw the complaint.  
A further complaint was made to Profile in December 2020. Profile issued its final response 
letter on 4 March 2021. Profile said its understanding of the complaint was that the fees and 
costs associated with the switch werent explained to Mr D. Profile said its records showed 
Mr D had received a welcome call during which hed confirmed receipt of the welcome pack. 
It included Profiles terms of business, explaining the fees and charges and giving generic 
examples. And, during the pension review, the adviser had explained the costs of Mr Ds 
current plan and those for the recommended plan, including both the charge for the initial 
switch and the ongoing fees. The pension switch documentation was sent to Mr D by 
recorded delivery. The charges were explained in the enclosed suitability report and the 
illustration.  
The complaint was referred to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. She said, having 
listened to the call recording, the adviser had explained quite early on in the call the charges, 
both those involved in the new SIPP and what Mr D had been paying. And the suitability 
report outlined the costs involved, which were also shown on the illustrations. Other literature 
provided also dealt with the charges. The investigator didnt think Mr D had been 
misinformed about the charges involved in the switch and the ongoing management and 
adviser fees.
Mr Ds representative asked for the complaint to be reviewed, saying that Mr D hadnt 
understood thered be an ongoing charge for both the provider and the adviser. 
The investigator considered the comments made but she wasnt persuaded to change her 
view. She maintained that the literature provided to Mr D outlined the ongoing advice 
charges and the providers charges for managing the SIPP. The ongoing service and 
charges section of the Your agreement with Profile Financial Solutions Ltd document 
explained what was included and the costs of the service. And the charges and 
renumeration section of the suitability report outlined the charges. 
In the telephone call on 28 April 2016 Mr D was advised that the plan charges and the 
adviser fee would be taken directly from his SIPP. Mr D had mentioned during the call hed 
benefit from ongoing advice and liked the idea of having someone at the end of a phone. 
The investigator thought Mr D wouldve queried the costs involved for ongoing advice had 
these not been explained.
In response Mr Ds representative said Mr D didnt have sufficient understanding of the 
amounts of fees which were taken each month. The fees discussed on the telephone were 
recorded as percentage amounts and whether that was on a monthly or annual basis wasnt 
confirmed. The paperwork Mr D received gave different amounts at different times and was 
inconsistent and confusing. An ordinary retail investor such as Mr D wouldnt have 
understood the fees which were discussed or written down. Mr Ds representative asked for 
the matter to be reviewed and so the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive noted above, this is the second complaint Mr D has made, through his 
representative, to Profile. All Im considering here is that further complaint, made in 
December 2020 and centering on the fees and charges Mr D would be paying for the new 
arrangement. The letter of complaint (dated 10 December 2020) does raise issues about 
suitability, as does what Mr D has said on his complaint form. But, as Ive said, an earlier 
complaint about suitability was made but later withdrawn and I havent considered suitability 
here.  
Like the investigator Ive reviewed Mr Ds telephone call with the adviser and the documents 
provided. I accept Mr D may not have fully understood the fees hed be paying for the SIPP 
and ongoing advice. I note he later cancelled the ongoing adviser charge, perhaps after hed 
seen the charges on statements issued by LV. 
The suitability letter refers to low ongoing charges. Profile may have considered what Mr D 
would be paying as low compared to what other SIPP providers and advisers might charge. 
However, it was still more than Mr D was paying  0.75% pa for one plan and no explicit fee 
for the other (which was invested in with profits)  and even if the advisers ongoing fee is 
discounted. 
But I think the central question is whether Profile disclosed the charges. And from what Ive 
seen Profile did  both over the telephone and in writing. Mr D may not have fully understood 
what was said over the telephone, but the suitability letter confirmed things. It says theres 
an initial fee of 3.09% and gives a monetary amount (£2,145) based on Mr Ds current fund 
value. It goes on to set out that theres a maximum total annual charge for the new plan of 
1.405%, which includes the 0.30% fund based adviser fee. A figure in money terms 
(£201.97) was again given. 
Profile also referred Mr D to the illustration which confirmed the fees and set out the effect 
on Mr Ds fund. The illustration (the personal quote) from LV was a fairly lengthy document. 
But it included a clearly labelled section about charges which said that these comprised LVs charges for managing the plan and the money in the fund. Plus the separate adviser 
charges. 
Looking at the latter first, these were clearly set out  as an initial, once only, charge of 
£2,146.58 and on ongoing charge of 0.30% of Mr Ds pension pot each year. The £2,146.58 
is consistent with the figure of £2,145 given in the suitability letter. And the illustration 
confirms the 0.30% is a yearly charge (although its taken over the course of the year). 
Theres also a summary showing the total yearly adviser charges. The first year includes the 
initial charge but the other years shown are just made up of the 0.30% fund based charge, 
assuming the fund grows at the rate set out. I think the adviser charges were clear.
The illustration set out the product charges. I accept these were more complicated. They 
depended on fund size and investment choices. Mr D may have found it difficult to work out 
exactly what hed be paying to LV. But the suitability report did set out the maximum total 
annual charge of 1.405% pa which, after deduction of the advisers 0.30% fee, would leave a 
maximum of 1.105% pa payable to LV. I think if Mr D had been unhappy with that or wanted 
further information as to exactly what hed be paying to LV, he couldve queried that with the 
adviser.  
Mr Ds representative has said that contradictory information was provided. But no examples 
were pointed to and from what Ive seen what Mr D was told about charges was consistent. 
For example, and as the investigator mentioned, the Your Agreement with Profile Financial 
Solutions Ltd leaflet also set out Profiles charges, including the ongoing service cost of 
0.30% pa and how that charge would be taken.   
Overall, I dont think Profile misinformed Mr D. I accept he may not have understood the fees 
hed be paying. But I dont think that was Profiles fault.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman