DRN-3732915
The complaint
Mr F complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc irresponsibly gave him a loan that he couldnt 
afford. For simplicity, I will refer to the business throughout as Sainsburys. 
What happened
In November 2020, Mr F applied for a loan with Sainsburys. He was given a loan of 
£12,000 and the monthly repayment was £248.13. 
In 2021, Mr F complained to Sainsburys to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Sainsburys didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 23 September 2022, a 
section of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was 
my intention not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Sainsburys will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Fs complaint is that Sainsburys made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Sainsburys has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr F provided at the time 
of application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mr Fs 
name to assess Mr Fs level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Sainsburys 
decided to agree to the loan of £12,000. So, there was some assessment of affordability at 
the time of the sale.
The Sainsburys checks showed that Mr F had over £10,000 in unsecured loans. Mr F 
recalls having more debt than this figure. But Mr F also explained that he was in the habit of 
borrowing informally from friends and family. And those borrowings wouldnt have been 
visible to Sainsburys on their credit check.
It is also worth noting that Mr Fs credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application. 
When I say this, I mean that Mr Fs management of his existing credit showed no recent 
history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the 
point that the lending decision was made, Mr F was affording his existing credit. And so, 
Sainsburys were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And 
whilst the declared purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation, I dont think that the 
information that Sainsburys had at the time of the lending decision, would have lead them 
to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr Fs expenditure. 
But, considering the amount of the loan Mr F was taking, the amount he would have to 
repay for it in total and his existing borrowings, I think that Sainsburys could have made 
more searching enquiries into Mr Fs income. I say this as the regulations suggest that they 
could have sought corroboration for the declared income. But had they sought clarification 
through payslips, I do not believe that what they would have seen anything that would have 
made the loan seem unreasonable. 
Mr F has explained that he had a gambling habit at the time which was the prime cause of 
his existing borrowings and the one he was applying for with Sainsburys. But Mr F also told 
us that he had not told Sainsburys about the gambling habit. And, as discussed above, the 
gambling habit had not led Mr F to blemish his credit file at the time he applied for the loan. 
And Mr F has explained he had worked hard to borrow money informally from friends and 
family to repay his debts. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Sainsburys at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. Sainsburys was not made aware of the habit at 
the time the loans were made. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that Sainsburys acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Fs 
expenditure more closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Sainsburys provided to Mr F was unreasonable. 
I know that Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has invested 
time and energy in pursuing his complaint. But I want Mr F to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. But having considered all the submissions in this case, 
particularly those concerning the time of the lending decision, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 7 October 2022. Both Sainsburys and Mr F have acknowledged 
receiving the decision and have made further submissions. Sainsburys have repeated their 
position. Mr F is disappointed with the outcome of my provisional findings. Having received 
responses from both parties in this complaint, I am proceeding to my final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reread the entire file and all of the submissions post decision in order to reach what I 
think is a fair and reasonable decision in this complaint. In doing so, I have confined my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because 
Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and 
decide whats fair in the round.
Mr F has noted that the figure I gave for the amount of personal loans he held at the time 
of the lending decision is less than his loan total at that time. I have rounded the figure to 
try to protect anonymity in the same way that we dont use surnames in decisions. 
It does seem to be the case that not all of Mr Fs credit showed on the report Sainsburys 
received. Not all credit providers report to all credit agencies. Mr F has also explained that 
he was being very active in managing credit at that time and so, not all of the activity may 
have been ready to be captured by the checks. And Mr F told us he was also in the habit 
of borrowing from friends and family at this time and none of that information would be 
available to a credit agency. 
But Sainsburys procured credit information to see how Mr F was managing his credit 
before making its lending decision and that is, in itself, not irresponsible. And at the time 
that Sainsburys made its lending decision Mr F had a clean credit record. So, Mr F 
appeared to be managing his credit at that time, as he had not allowed his credit file to be 
adversely affected. And Mr F declared a good level of income and supplied some 
expenditure information with his application. And that suggested that the new lending 
would be affordable.   
So, Sainsburys appeared to have little reason to make further enquiries into Mr Fs 
expenditure at that time based on the information it was provided by Mr F and it procured 
for itself.  
I know that Mr F is disappointed with this because had Sainsburys seen the bank 
statements that Mr F has supplied us in the investigation of his complaint, it is very likely his 
gambling addiction would have been evident. But as I mentioned in the provisional decision, 
Mr F did not share information about his addiction with Sainsburys. And so, Sainsburys 
were denied information that may have changed their lending decision. So, considering the 
information that Sainsburys did have at the time of the lending decision, I think they had no 
reason to make more searching enquiries than they did. 
In saying that, I have also noted that Mr F chose to present himself as someone who 
wanted funds for debt consolidation, when he applied for the loan. So, I dont see the 
lending decision Sainsburys made as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
Sainsburys, adding to an already significant amount of personal borrowing. Instead, rather 
than the new credit adding to Mr Fs burden of credit, it would have appeared to 
Sainsburys that Mr F was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage his 
existing debt by taking out a loan and using it to secure more favourable terms to existing 
credit. I say that because Mr F could have been saving money on interest he would have 
been paying elsewhere, had he used the loan for the reasons he provided to Sainsburys 
at that time. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for Sainsburys to have 
facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr F to the contrary, Im not persuaded that based on the information 
provided to Sainsburys, or what Sainsburys could see of Mr Fs management of other 
credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. Mr F thinks my judgment is not in step with the guidance on our website. That guidance is 
general in nature. My decision is based on the particular details of Mr Fs case. And I 
consider it to be in line with our standard approach. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman