DRN-2876519
The complaint
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) arent protecting his personal data while its 
staff work from home during the Covid pandemic. 
What happened
Mr W says he had an issue concerning his lost credit card with HSBC. When he telephoned 
HSBC to discuss this, on each occasion he heard an automated message warning he might 
hear background noises of family members/pets, while its staff work from home during the 
Covid pandemic. Mr W says when he questioned this with HSBC, they were unable to 
alleviate his concerns that non-staff members could be present in the same room as their 
employees, and possibly have access to his personal data. Mr W doesnt think HSBCs view 
that their staff are trusted to do the right thing goes far enough and they need specific 
training and guidance on protecting customers data, while working from home. 
HSBC says their staff have received training on handling data responsibly and use bank 
approved secure computer systems. HSBC says they dont have an alternative whilst the 
Covid pandemic continues and trust their staff to do the right thing during these difficult 
times. 
Mr W wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that it wasnt this services role to decide whether a business had breached data 
protection laws but, in any event, couldnt see any evidence to suggest Mr Ws data had 
been compromised here. The investigator also felt HSBC were following the government 
guidelines issued at the start of the Covid pandemic and they had put procedures in place to 
protect Mr Ws personal data.
Mr W wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see that it would be worrying for Mr W to believe his personal data might be 
compromised in the event of non-HSBC staff members, overhearing telephone 
conversations, or seeing personal data whilst in the same room as their employees, when 
they worked from home. When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC took 
reasonable measures to protect Mr Ws personal data while their staff worked from home 
during the pandemic. 
Mr W feels HSBCs recorded telephone message is strong evidence they are not 
safeguarding customers personal data in the way it should and HSBC havent been able to 
satisfy him that their staff have been adequately trained or told how to deal with this during 
the pandemic, whilst they have been made to work from home. 
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic, which affected businesses and 
customers alike. While Mr W may not agree, the backdrop of the pandemic meant that many 
businesses faced problems in balancing government advice while continuing to run their 
business to provide services to customers. Having said that, whats important here is how 
HSBC ensured, despite these exceptional circumstances, their customers personal data was 
properly safeguarded and protected. 
With this in mind, I requested the details of the training and guidance HSBC gave to their 
staff who worked from home during this difficult time. From the information provided to me I 
can see, before their staff could work from home, HSBC put them through mandatory 
training to ensure they were made aware of the risks associated with working remotely. 
HSBC says they reminded their staff how they should protect its customers information and 
encouraged electronic record keeping opposed to manual paper records, while at home. In 
addition HSBC have informed this service that they provided one to one training to their 
frontline staff and where appropriate ensured only those staff who provided a declaration 
that they had a secure home working environment could deal with telephone calls from 
customers - those who couldnt were put to use, helping its customers in other parts of the 
business.
Its also worth mentioning during this time, HSBC have confirmed to this service they 
maintained close contact with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to keep them informed 
about the actions they took to continue to serve its customers. 
While it may have been useful to have informed Mr W of the measures it had put in place at 
the time of his complaint, I am satisfied HSBC have taken reasonable steps to ensure its 
customers information is protected when its staff work remotely. So, its fair to say when 
HSBC refer to their staff doing the right thing, as Mr W refers, I am satisfied this means its 
remote working staff have taken on board the guidance and training given to them. 
The transcript of the telephone message HSBC recorded for its customers that Mr W refers 
to, says:
To protect the communities, we operate in and our people from the spread of Coronavirus, 
we are now operating a fully Work-From-Home Contact Centre team, who will continue to 
support your critical financial needs. Our agents have secure remote access to our systems, 
which may take us slightly longer to deal with your enquiry. Our people are at home with 
their families and pets and you may hear home life noises in the background. We thank our 
people for their commitment and we appreciate your understanding.
I am satisfied this message was provided to help customers understand they may hear 
sounds, voices and background noises they may not ordinarily hear when previously calling 
the bank. Thats not to say these unfamiliar sounds/voices when heard, meant there were 
non-staff members gaining access to HSBCs customers personal data, nor can I see Mr W 
has any evidence to show his personal data was compromised as a result of it. It follows that 
I cant say HSBCs telephone message suggests it has weakened, or is less protective of, its 
customer data as Mr W suggests  more that this is HSBC alerting its customers unfamiliar 
sounds may be heard when calling the bank.  
Thats not to say that I dont think that Mr W had some genuine concerns here  he clearly 
does and to some extent, I can see why. But while I understand the concerns raised by Mr W, there will usually be some risk in any method a business may use to protect customer 
data. Thats especially true when a business has to change and adapt processes in light of a 
large-scale event like this pandemic. But here, when faced with the backdrop of the 
pandemic and the challenging circumstances it presented, I am satisfied HSBC took 
reasonable measures, when its staff needed to work from home, to protect Mr Ws 
information. Its worth mentioning this was at a time when HSBC were trying to provide 
essential banking services to meet its customer needs. While Mr W may not agree, 
businesses can only do so much to ensure these measures are met, but I am satisfied, on 
balance, HSBC acted responsibly here to ensure they were, for the reasons I have already 
given.
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
HSBC here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman