DRN-3589402
The complaint
Ms L complains that Allianz Insurance Plc were unfair to reject a claim she made on a 
property they insure for her.
What happened
Before I proceed, I ought to say that Im aware Ms L has brought a previous complaint to us 
about this claim. Briefly, it related to ceiling and water damage/damp. The ombudsman who 
decided that case found that Allianz had been reasonable in rejecting a ceiling claim on the 
basis of gradual deterioration, a second ceiling claim on the basis of it showing no insurable 
event and the water claim on the basis of wear and tear.
So that complaint was not upheld.
I am unable to decide on issues previously decided but Ms L has provided further 
information which she believes to mean Allianz owes her a settlement. Ms L says she now 
believes damage to have been caused by storm conditions.
Allianz said Ms Ls surveyor had concluded the damage was a maintenance issue that had 
been ongoing for several months, and as such an insurable event couldnt be pinpointed. So, 
Allianz maintained that her losses would not be covered by the policy.
Ms L disagreed, she said that the reason it appeared to have been an ongoing issue was 
because it had taken time for the damage to present itself, on account of the drylining of the 
walls. Ms L says she believes a storm in late 2020 may have led to roof damage and that it 
was effectively caused by a one-off event which got progressively worse over time.
Ms L said that the reason the roof appeared to require maintenance, was because after the 
storm caused the initial damaged it deteriorated further. And that the resultant damage 
caused by water ingress was only discovered later was because it had been obscured by the 
drylining in the upstairs property.
Agreement couldnt be reached so an investigator here looked into the matter. They 
acknowledged there were storm conditions at the end of 2020, but didnt think they could be 
said to have caused the damage. This was largely because the roof damage didnt appear to 
have been typical of that which is caused by storm.
Ms L didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has made many points in relation to this matter, I havent addressed each and every 
one. Were an informal service and so focus on what we consider to be the pertinent points.
First of all, I note that Ms Ls policy covers her for damage from storm. But for such a claim 
to be covered it needs to be established that its likely a storm was the cause.
I have seen the surveyor report produced for Ms L. That says:
The roof is covered with tiles and contains a hip valley. The top of the flank wall is 
weathered by ridge tiles. There is a tiled roof to the bay. The elevations are rendered.
There are open joints within the weathering to the top of the flank wall which will be allowing 
water ingress. Once this water has entered the wall, it will be seeking to evaporate but will 
also transfer downwards due to gravity. As the water cannot evaporate at first floor due to 
drylining, it will continue down to the ground floor.
It also refers to there being some open jointing around the windows, and cracked render, 
which could be allowing water ingress. I do not consider such issues to be typical of storm 
damage, rather I think theyd be considered maintenance issues  so if that was the cause, it 
wouldnt be one thats insured by the policy.
The use of the word weathering does not suggest to me that it was storm damage. Id 
consider that word to be used where damage has been caused over time as opposed to a 
one-off event.
Ive thought about Ms Ls argument, that there could have been a one-off storm which 
caused initial damage and that it has worsened over time, to give the appearance of 
weathering. And while I accept thats possible, Im not persuaded its likely to be what 
happened  especially as alternative causes have been identified. Ms Ls surveyor said the 
appearance of the damage to the ground floor may have taken some time, but he does not 
say that the roof was damaged due to storm, just that it was a possibility.
There is another report from a roofing company. Theyve said:
I can confirm that following my inspection of the main roof yesterday, there are no tiles 
missing, everything is in order and therefore the roof has nothing to do with the internal 
damp you are experiencing
Ms L contested this and included comments of them later saying it is clear that more than 
re-pointing is required. Some of the ridge copings are loose where the mortar pointing has 
weathered.
The correspondence with the surveyor confirms that the rectification work recommended by 
the roofing company is maintenance. And I note they suggested the cause of the water 
ingress could have been Strong winds, heavy frosts, etc. could all have caused 
deterioration. The language used there again, could and deterioration is telling. The word 
could suggests something is possible, rather than it being likely. Also, deterioration does not 
lead me to the conclusion there was a one-off insured event, rather it suggests maintenance 
is required, as has been said elsewhere.
And frost damage is excluded from cover so not only is the open jointing and cracked render 
a possible cause there is another alternative reason thats not covered.
The storm identified at the end of 2020 might reasonably be described as being capable of 
causing some structural damage. So, while its possible that could have damaged the roof, I 
dont think theres enough for me to say it was the probable cause. Especially as the tiling 
has been said to have remained intact and instead it seems mortar was deteriorating. 
Ms Ls theory of a storm occurring toward the end of 2020 being the catalyst for the damage later identified, appears to be being supported by her statement that the lessees of the 
upstairs flat said a leak had occurred on 29 November 2020. If thats the case, with the 
suggestion seemingly being that the roof damage may have already been done by then, 
then a storm at the end of December 2020 isnt of much relevance. And if the roof had been 
damaged, and leaking, since November 2020 then it seems likely the lessees would have 
identified further leaks in their property in the meantime  even if they werent to be identified 
by Ms L until later. 
Overall, its mere speculation that a storm  toward the end of 2020  was the catalyst for a 
period of water ingress that only presented itself several months later. And just because the 
damp may have been undetected for that period it doesnt necessarily mean the initial cause 
can be attributed to roof damage caused by a storm  particularly as there are several other 
possibilities for the damage. In view of that, I wont be asking Allianz to do anything more.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman