DRN-3856687
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about their home contents insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc, 
because it wont settle a claim Mr W made for a watch and bracelet, which were lost or 
stolen at an airport.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr C was wearing a watch and bracelet whilst travelling. He took them off to 
go through airport security, putting them in his pocket once he was through the security 
checks. He didnt see the items again and made a claim for them to AXA. 
AXA began considering the claim. But it had concerns; about how the items had become lost 
or stolen, Mr Cs ownership of the items and whether the home address was occupied. AXA 
asked Mr C for various details in order to help it resolve its concerns. AXA wanted the serial 
number for the watch, an explanation of how the bracelet, tight fitting in nature, had been 
removed and to see various bills for the home address. Mr C said he couldnt get the watchs 
serial number and that he had been able to unscrew the securing fastening of the bracelet 
with his thumbnail. Regarding his home, he sent various documents to AXA, including some 
bills from 2017. But the only document Mr C provided from around the time of the loss was 
from February 2021, from a utility company, requesting an outstanding payment was made. 
In a final response letter dated 8 October 2021, AXA said its concerns had not been 
resolved by the information Mr C had sent it. It said until that happened, it would not be 
progressing the claim. Mr C was unhappy and complained to us.
Our Investigator felt it had been reasonable for AXA to want to see more bill data to ensure 
Mr Cs occupancy of the home. Mr C remained dissatisfied and provided further detail. Our 
Investigator noted that AXA, in its October 2021 final response, had agreed to review further 
detail if provided. So she felt the new detail should be considered by AXA  that it didnt 
reasonably form part of this complaint as it had been provided following AXAs final 
response. And she confirmed that her view, about AXAs actions at the time of that final 
response remained unchanged  that it had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr C remained unhappy. He sent detail to AXA and was unhappy with its reply. AXA 
confirmed it would log that as a new complaint. Mr C also reverted to ourselves regarding his 
initial complaint. He said he still felt it was unfair that hed been asked to provide more 
details and that he found AXAs enquiries to be offensive. He said that AXA was bringing his 
integrity, reputation and intelligence into question. He said hed been honest and provided 
everything he could, which he felt was enough. The complaint was passed to me for 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C is concerned, not just that AXA questioned his occupation of the 
home, but also that it had queries about the watch and bracelet. And whilst I know that 
matters have moved on since AXA issued its final response letter dated 8 October 2021, 
I can only look at the situation as it was at that time. And decide if AXAs decision in 
October 2021, to not progress the claim unless further detail was provided, was fair and 
reasonable. 
Im aware of the debate about the watch and bracelet. But really, for me, the occupancy of 
the home is the overriding issue. I can quite understand that AXA, without being satisfied in 
this respect alone, would not want to progress the claim. Given that the policy is offered 
based on the insured property being lived in by Mr C and contains express terms regarding 
unoccupancy of the home, I dont think its unreasonable that AXA would want to be satisfied 
in this respect before making any decision on the claim. So if Im satisfied that AXAs 
concerns, based on the detail it held in this respect, prior to its final response in 2021 are 
reasonable, then Ill likely find its refusal to progress matters  at that point  was fair and 
reasoble too.
Mr C has provided detail to AXA such as his passport and has commented about this 
evidencing he is a resident in the UK. But, as Ive noted above, it is Mr Cs occupation of the 
insured address which AXA wants, and is entitled, to assure itself about. 
Mr C has queried what utility bills will show AXA. But at this time, as no bills from around the 
time of the loss have yet been shown to AXA, it hasnt been able to determine what they give 
it cause to conclude. Im mindful though that it isnt unusual for an insurer to refer to usage 
on utility bills to reach conclusions about whether the home was likely occupied or not. And 
sometimes enquiries like that will cause an insurer to require more information and detail to 
be provided by the policyholder as part of on-going validation enquirers. As long as those 
enquiries are reasonable and reasonably handled, I have no issue with that type of 
investigation. I realise Mr C feels his integrity, reputation and intelligence are being brought 
into question  but that is not the case. Rather an insurer is entitled to validate a claim, which 
includes it considering its liability for it, and, here, Im satisfied that is what AXA has been 
trying to do. 
I note that as of October 2021, when AXA issued its final response, Mr C hadnt provided 
any bills from around the time of the loss. The only document he had shown from that period 
was a request for payment from a utility company. The letter was dated February 2021 and 
said the outstanding sum was due in respect of the last bill. But there was no detail 
showing what that bill was, what period it was for, or what the usage for the period of that bill 
had been. The other bill data Mr C had provided to AXA was dated September 2020 and 
earlier. Im satisfied that the detail provided by Mr C, up to October 2021, was not sufficient 
to satisfy AXAs concerns about Mr Cs occupancy of his home address/the insured property. 
It follows that I think AXAs refusal to progress the claim, without seeing more detail, was fair 
and reasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman