DRN-3694169
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr A holds with TSB Bank Plc; its a joint mortgage with 
Mrs A but they are estranged and she has not joined the complaint. Hes unhappy that TSB 
hasnt taken possession after the mortgage term ended.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr A and TSB. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with Mr A and 
TSB, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr A being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions.
The mortgage term ended in 2019, and realistically, the only way it can be repaid is if the 
mortgaged property is sold. Mr A no longer lives there but Mrs A does. Both of them must 
act together to sell the house themselves, and theres no indication they are willing to do 
that.
It could be sold by TSB in possession; possession can happen either voluntarily or by legal 
action to enforce the security. As with a sale by the borrowers, voluntary possession requires 
both borrowers to act in unison, and as they havent done shown any sign of being willing to 
agree to a common course of action, that too has effectively been ruled out. That leaves 
legal action by TSB to enforce possession, and it is this that Mr A complains hasnt 
happened.
The reason for that is very simple. TSB was prevented from taking action by the 
country-wide moratorium on possession proceedings imposed by the FCA in March 2020, in 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Very simply, TSB couldnt start possession 
proceedings, however much Mr A wanted it too.
Ms A is unhappy that in April 2022, after the moratorium ended, he received a letter from 
solicitors acting for TSB resuming recovery action, but still not starting possession action. 
That letter was issued since Mr A made his complaint and referred it to us after receiving 
TSBs final response in July 2021. If he wants to complain that TSB has taken too long to 
resume action after the moratorium ended, that would need to be in a separate complaint.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman