DRN-2886137
The complaint
Mr E complains that Close Brothers Limited (trading as Close Brothers Premium Finance)
(CBPF) was wrong to cancel finance and associated car insurance when he missed a
monthly payment.
What happened
In May 2019 CBPF provided Mr E with running account credit to pay for specialist car 
insurance. Under the finance agreement CBPF paid the insurance premium up front and Mr 
E paid back the money he borrowed in monthly instalments. When CBPF tried to claim the 
payment that was due at the end of September 2019, the direct debit was returned because 
of insufficient funds. CBPF and the broker (that arranged the finance) both contacted Mr E 
about the missed payment but he didnt respond. The finance, and the car insurance it paid 
for, were both cancelled and CBPF told Mr E he had to pay the balance of over £2,000.
Mr E was away for most of October 2019 (due to a bereavement) but he says a family 
member was checking his post and CBPF didnt send proper notice of the missed payment 
or give him enough time to bring the account up to date. The car insurance was cancelled - 
and he needs this for work - so he had to take out a new policy, which cost nearly three 
times as much - over £7,000. CBPF provided the finance for that as well and Mr E thinks 
hes been treated unfairly. He wants CBPF to compensate him for financial losses including 
the difference in premiums paid.
CBPF says it was entitled to end the finance agreement because Mr E missed a payment 
and then failed to bring the account up to date - despite being told about the arrears by text 
and letter. The account balance was over £2,000 when the agreement ended. CBPF tried to 
recover what it could from insurers but no refund was due (when the insurance policy was 
cancelled) because Mr E had made a claim a few months before. CBPF says Mr E remains 
liable for the debt and it offered forbearance by setting up a repayment plan but he didnt 
maintain that. 
Mr E referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators looked into what 
happened. Shes satisfied that Mr E was told how much he had to pay each month and 
when each payment was due - and he was reminded about his next payment during a 
phone call in late September 2019. She says he confirmed hed prefer correspondence by 
letter and not email at that time and he was sent letters and text messages when he missed 
his September payment but didnt contact CBPF. She acknowledges Mr E had some difficult 
personal circumstances around the relevant time - although he didnt tell CBPF about this 
until after the finance was cancelled. Given Mr Es preference for correspondence by post - 
she thinks it would have been reasonable to let CBPF know if he was going away. 
Shes satisfied that Mr E had enough information and he should reasonably have known 
what would happen if he didnt bring the account up to date. She considers CBPF was 
entitled to end the finance and she doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr E disagrees. In summary, he says CBPF didnt issue a default notice in compliance with 
section 87(1) of The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He doesnt recall the phone 
conversation in late September 2019 and he considers the finance agreement was 
cancelled too soon. Hes also concerned about the way his insurance was cancelled and 
hes unhappy that he was deprived of the chance to make alternative arrangements to pay 
for the relevant policy. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
My provisional decision
I considered the available evidence and I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Es complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators and Id seen additional evidence so I 
thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and respond, if they wanted 
to, before I issued my final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 June 2021. Ive summarised what I provisionally 
decided - and why - below. This forms part of my final decision. 
The role of this service is to resolve disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers informally. I am not a regulator and I dont have the power to tell CBPF how to run 
its business on a day to day basis. My job here is to consider the evidence provided by both 
parties, without taking sides, and decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome, in all 
of the circumstances of this particular complaint.
Mr E brings this complaint to our service because it relates to finance he took out with CBPF
to pay for car insurance. Mr E entered into a number of different agreements with different
parties at the relevant time  these included the insurer (who provided the insurance policy)
CBPF (the lender that provided the finance to pay the insurance premium) and an insurance
broker (who made the arrangements). 
Ive seen a copy of the finance agreement. This was a separate agreement to Mr Es policy 
of insurance. CBPF provided running account credit that allowed Mr E to draw down funds. 
Mr E used this money to pay the full amount of his insurance premium at the start of the 
policy and Im satisfied he had the benefit of the money.
Mr E agreed to repay CBPF by monthly instalments. Theres no dispute that he failed to
make the payment at the end of September 2019 on the due date - meaning his account 
went into arrears. When Mr E still hadnt paid this after another 21 days, CBPF ended the 
finance agreement. This left an outstanding balance. Under the terms of the finance 
agreement, the insurance policy provided security for the money that CBPF lent Mr E. And 
CBPF asked for the insurance to be cancelled so that any refund due could be used to pay 
off the outstanding balance.
I think the crux of Mr Es complaint about CBPF is that it should not have cancelled the 
finance without sending him a default notice first - in line with obligations set out under 
section 87 (and 88) of the CCA. And, if the finance hadnt been cancelled, he wouldnt have 
needed to take out new insurance.
Sections 87 and 88 CCA
Section 87 provides (as far as its relevant here) that a default notice (in accordance
with section 88) is required before a creditor (like CBPF) can become entitled by reason of
any breach by a debtor (like Mr E) to terminate the finance or enforce any security.
Section 88 sets out the content and effect of the default notice - which must be in the 
prescribed form, specify the nature of the alleged breach, what action is required to remedy it, the date before which that action is to be taken and allow the debtor 14 days to do so. The 
notice should also include a copy of the current Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
information sheet.
CBPF doesnt dispute it failed to issue the notice required (due to a technical issue). So, the
question for me is whether its likely to have made any difference to what happened if CBPF
had sent Mr E the appropriate default notice. 
I think its reasonable to look at the information that was provided to Mr E in this situation  
both when he took out the finance and when he failed to make his monthly payment on time.
information about missed payments in the finance agreement
Im satisfied the finance agreement drew Mr Es attention to the potential impact of missing
payments when he first took it out - on the first page, just above the box where Mr E signed
to say he had read and accepted the terms. Under the heading missing payments, it says:-
If you miss a payment you will incur extra charges, your credit record may be affected and
you may find it harder to borrow again from us or another lender. We may take steps to have
your insurance policy or policies terminated
I think this information was in a fairly prominent position where it could be easily seen - so
Mr E should reasonably have been aware that missing a payment could result in his
insurance being cancelled. Im satisfied that paragraphs 4  6 of the terms and conditions
also explain that CBPF may cancel the finance and seek to enforce the security (the
insurance policy) and obtain a refund in the event of a missed payment.
I consider the pre contract credit information provided to Mr E around the same time also
drew his attention to the importance of making payments on time. Under the heading Are
there any features of the credit agreement which could have an adverse impact on me? it
says (insofar as its relevant here) -
Yes. As the insurance policy forms the security for your credit, your insurance policy is at
risk of cancellation if you fail to meet your repayment obligations. If your insurance policy is
cancelled in such circumstances, we have the right to receive any proceeds or refunds paid.
If we do, we will use these funds to reduce the amount you owe us..We may. ..enforce any
security given to us under the terms of the credit agreement, which will result in the
cancellation of your insurance policy. Youll be liable to pay all sums owing to us, as well as
any charges. Your credit record may be affected, and you may find it harder to borrow from
us or another lender.
Based on this, I think its fair to say that Mr E was made reasonably aware, when he took
the finance out, of the importance of making monthly repayments on time and the
potential impact that failure to make such a payment might have - on both the finance and
the associated insurance.
information provided in October 2019 (after Mr E missed his September payment)
Ive gone on to look at the information Mr E was given when he missed the payment due at
the end of September 2019. I can see the broker sent Mr E a letter on 2 October which told
him his direct debit had failed and CBPF would try and take the payment again on 10
October. The broker said Mr E should get in touch if that was going to be an issue. Ive
seen nothing to suggest that Mr E (or anyone acting on his behalf) contacted the broker or
CBPF at this time.
It looks as if CBPF tried to take the payment again on 10 October 2019 but that wasunsuccessful. Ive seen a copy of a letter that CBPF sent Mr E on 11 October which
said:-
the account was in arrears by almost £400;
it was important to contact CBPF to pay the arrears;
a default notice had been sent on 1 October 2019 (which we know now wasnt 
sent); and
if Mr E didnt bring the account up to date by 21 October 2019, CBPF might 
cancel the finance and that could affect his car insurance.
This letter went on to give various payment options. It also signposted sources of advice if
Mr E was having financial problems and referred to the FCA information sheet (which it said
was included with the default notice) that contains important information about your rights
and where to go for support and advice.
I think the information provided in this letter was much the same as Mr E would have
received in the default notice  in that he was told how much was due, when it was due and
what might happen if this wasnt paid. He was also urged to get in touch if he was having
financial problems and signposted to sources of free financial advice. 
I think anyone reading this letter would be in no doubt as to the need to contact CBPF before 
21 October 2019 about the arrears or CBPF could cancel the finance which could impact on 
the associated insurance. And they would also be aware that free advice was available and 
where to access this, if support was needed.
I appreciate Mr E was away during this time - and I am very sorry to hear about his difficult
personal circumstances. CBPFs records indicate that Mr E was sent text alerts to let him 
know that the account was in arrears. Ive seen nothing to suggest that he wouldnt have
received these - even though he was away - and Mr E also told us that a relative was 
checking his post in his absence.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I think Mr E should reasonably have been aware of
the arrears and what could happen if he (or someone acting on his behalf) didnt get in
touch with CBPF by 21 October 2019. I accept a default notice would have given Mr E more
than the 10 days allowed in the letter of the 11 of October 2019 (even if it had been sent on
the same date) because Mr E would have had 14 days to pay. But, Im not persuaded thats
likely to have made any difference to the outcome overall and Ill explain why.
The investigator asked Mr E to supply evidence to show that he would have been able to
make the payment in time if he had received the default notice. Mr E provided statements 
from a savings account but Im afraid the transactions are such that the information provided 
is insufficient, on its own, to show that Mr E was in a position to make the required payment 
at the relevant time.
I can see that the broker wrote to Mr E on 23 October 2019, after the finance was cancelled. 
This correspondence said he still had another seven days to arrange to pay if he wanted the 
insurance cover to continue. Ive seen nothing to show that Mr E contacted the broker at this 
time to try and arrange an alternative way to pay. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded he was in a position to do so at the relevant time. I note he didnt actually take out 
replacement cover until early 2020. 
I understand Mr E is unhappy that his insurance was cancelled but this was cancelled by the 
broker and I cant reasonably hold CBPF liable for that. Theres no dispute that CBPF made 
a technical mistake - in that it failed to issue the default notice required sections 87 and 88 of the CCA. But Im not persuaded, on balance, that this error made any difference to the 
outcome for Mr E, overall. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I think it is unlikely that Mr E would have been able to make 
the payment required even if CBPF had issued the default notice. And I cant reasonably 
require CBPF to provide a refund or do anything else, in these circumstances.
The responses received from the parties
I invited the parties to let me have any further submissions by 28 June 2021. Both parties 
have now responded. CBPF has nothing further to add and Mr E disagrees with my 
provisional conclusions. 
Mr E thinks my provisional decision is unreasonable and flawed, in law. He refers to several 
findings of fact as well as sections 87 and 88 of the CCA. He also mentions some caselaw 
that he considers is relevant and should be taken into account - because the court found the 
issue of a default notice was a pre-condition to validly terminating a contract. Mr E feels this 
supports his view that CBPF wrongfully cancelled his credit agreement without a valid 
default notice - and the suggestion that CBPFs failure to issue a default notice was simply a 
technical mistake has no basis in law. 
Mr E says I must decide whether CBPF broke the law and acted in breach of contract  not if 
Im persuaded that CBPFs mistake made any difference to the outcome for him overall. He 
thinks CBPF should be held liable in damages for wrongful termination of the credit 
agreement without a valid default notice and requesting the cancellation of the insurance 
policy. He would like me to uphold his complaint and require CBPF to reimburse lost 
earnings/profit of about £10,000 and pay compensation for abuse of a fiduciary position and 
pain and suffering of about £5,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr E has strong feelings about what happened. I can see hes gone to some 
trouble to provide detailed submissions and I want to assure him, if I dont address every 
point that been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered 
everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to focus, in this decision, on what I 
think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. Im able to do this 
because of the informal nature of our service - which provides dispute resolution thats an 
alternative to going to court, at no cost to consumers. 
Whilst I must take the relevant law (amongst other things) into account when I make my 
decision, its not for me to make legal pronouncements. Instead, my role is to consider all the 
available evidence in order to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this particular complaint. And, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory 
(as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. That means I 
consider whats most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. 
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that Mr E was put at 
a significant disadvantage by CBPFs failure to send the default notice required under the 
CCA. I think Mr E was made sufficiently aware of the likely consequences of failing to make 
the payments due on time - and what his options were if he was having financial problems. 
And Im satisfied he had the chance to bring his account up to date and rectify the default. Mr E hasnt provided any new evidence or said anything that has persuaded me to change 
my mind. I have considered the caselaw he referred to which, broadly speaking, involves a 
contract between two sophisticated commercial parties who agreed that termination would 
be subject to the issue of notice to give one party the chance to rectify its default. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr E but I dont think this takes matters much further here - where Im looking 
at a different type of contract and a different sort of default notice. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Mr E had the opportunity to rectify his default and he failed to do 
so. I remain of the view its unlikely to have made any significant difference to the overall 
outcome if CBPF had sent the default notice specified in the CCA, in these particular 
circumstances. I appreciate Mr E feels its wrong that his insurance policy was cancelled but 
this was done by the broker and I cant reasonably hold CBPF liable for that.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that there are fair and reasonable 
grounds to require CBPF to provide a refund or compensation to Mr E or do anything further. 
I realise Mr E is likely to feel let down by this decision - as its not the outcome he wanted. 
But, Mr E is not obliged to accept what Ive said, in which case it remains open to him to 
pursue the matter by any other means available. 
I encourage Mr E to contact CBPF to discuss the outstanding balance. If hes having 
financial difficulties, I would expect CBPF to treat him positively and sympathetically - which 
may include agreeing a suitable repayment plan, if thats appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman