DRN-3566632
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr R is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr R bought solar panels for his home in June 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. Mr R says the installer misled him into believing that the 
panels would be self-funding, which they werent. He also says the installer misled him about 
the cost of buying the panels, because he had to repay Ikano more than the cash price.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr R and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, 
and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost. Also, it 
was made very clear to Mr R that he was taking out an interest-bearing loan.
Cost vs benefit
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £329.35. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is 
£7,075, payable over ten years. This document was signed by Mr R immediately below 
those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information 
to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr R could be 
forgiven for overlooking it in this context. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would 
clearly come to £707.50 each year. That is more than twice the stated benefit figure for the 
first year. Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr R about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
Loan interest
The loan agreement made it very clear that this was an interest-bearing loan, and that the 
panels would therefore cost him more than their cash price. It clearly stated that the total 
amount he would have to pay was £9,351.52.
So I cannot agree that the installer misled him about the price.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
