DRN-4123121
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that TSB Bank plc allowed his address to be changed without his 
knowledge or agreement.
What happened
Mr C is a customer of TSB Bank. On 6 February 2023 Mr Cs address was changed on his 
customer profile with them.
As part of their security measures around a change of address, TSB Bank sent a letter to Mr 
C, at the previous address, to confirm the change. On receiving the letter, Mr C called TSB 
Bank to say he hadnt requested a change of address, and the new address wasnt one he 
recognised. So TSB Bank started to look into what had happened. On 13 February 2023 
TSB Bank changed Mr Cs address back to his correct address. 
Mr C says he called for an update on 22 February 2023 (although TSB Banks notes show 
this call took place on 17 February 2023.) He says he was given the first name of the staff 
member who had potentially made the change, but was also told that they had no more 
information about where this staff member worked. After this call the adviser also added a 
note to Mr Cs accounts to say that any further payments or changes requested in branch 
would require photo ID.
TSB Bank continued to look into what had happened, and they sent Mr C their final response 
letter on 2 March 2023. They told Mr C they couldnt explain how the address details were 
changed, but reassured him it was an isolated incident. They told him theyd applied security 
measures to safeguard his accounts, and theyd credited his account with £150 to apologise.
Mr C brought his complaint to us, and our investigator looked into it. She sent Mr C her view 
of the complaint, and a follow up view. Her overall view of things was, in summary, that 
although TSB Bank had mentioned a staff ID number which resulted in the first name hed 
been given, they were unable to identify the staff member from this, or the location they had 
worked in. She didnt think it would be possible to fully explain what had happened. She said 
shed taken into account the period of time Mr Cs address was incorrect for, and that no 
information about his accounts was sent to the incorrect address. And having done so she 
thought the £150 already paid by TSB Bank was fair compensation for what had happened.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view. He said, in summary, that he didnt think TSB 
Bank had taken this seriously enough, or that the compensation reflects the seriousness of 
what happened. 
Mr Cs complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate its frustrating for Mr C that TSB Bank have been unable to fully explain how the 
change of address happened. But looking at the notes theyve provided about the 
investigation, Im satisfied theyve investigated things as far as they reasonably could, and 
simply arent able to provide him with a more detailed explanation.
Mr Cs said that he thinks the address may have been changed earlier than 6 February 
2023, but Ive seen evidence that the incorrect address was only showing on his profile 
between 6 and 13 February 2023. And from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that no information 
about Mr Cs accounts has been sent out to the wrong address as a result of what 
happened.
I dont doubt that this was an upsetting experience for Mr C and I can, of course, understand 
why he would be concerned about the security of his accounts moving forward. But TSB 
Bank have already put in place additional measures to protect his accounts. And theyve 
also paid him £150 in compensation.
Ive considered what Mr Cs said about the level of compensation. But taking everything into 
account, including the impact this has had on Mr C, I think £150 is fair and reasonable, and 
in line with the level of award wed generally make in similar circumstances. So, although Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr C, Im not going to ask TSB Bank to do anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint  in the sense that TSB Bank plc 
have already paid him fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman