DRN-4430112
The complaint
Mr B complains that RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) unfairly declined a claim under his 
European breakdown cover policy. 
Any reference to RAC includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr B had a European breakdown policy which covered the period from 19 August to 
2 September 2023. The policy was underwritten by RAC. 
The policy provided cover up to seven days before the planned departure date if the 
vehicle breaks down in the UK, and that if the vehicle cant be fixed by the departure 
date, RAC will arrange a hire car for the journey, or for use while the car is fixed  
whichever is sooner.
On 16 August 2023, Mr B called RAC to say there was an issue with his car and hed 
driven it to a garage for a diagnostic check. The garage had confirmed there was a 
fault, but it couldnt source the necessary part for a week. So, Mr B said he wanted to 
utilise the hire car cover under his policy. 
RAC said that as the vehicle had not been attended to by RAC and was already at a 
place of repair, it was unable to provide him with a hire car, in line with the policy 
terms. 
Two days later, Mr B insured a different vehicle on his policy so he could travel as 
planned. And he raised a complaint with RAC about its decision because he thought 
it was unreasonable given repairs hadnt been carried out by the garage. 
RAC maintained its position. Unhappy, Mr B brought a complaint to this Service. An 
investigator considered it but didnt uphold it. 
Because Mr B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered the relevant law and regulations, the regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, and codes of practice. Having done so, I agree with the outcome our 
Investigator reached, and Ill explain why.  
The starting point is the policy booklet which sets out the terms and conditions of the policy. 
A condition, which applies to the entire policy (including the provision of a hire car) states:
Direct request for services. You must request services directly from us. Well only 
provide cover if weve arranged or authorised your services. If your vehicle is already 
at a garage or another place of repair, you wont be covered.
And goes on to say:
To make a claim, you must call us and allow us to assess the claim and arrange 
repairs, replacement or other services. If you dont speak to us before requesting 
services, you will not be covered.
So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear that if the vehicle is already with another repairer  
who hasnt been arranged or authorised by RAC, then cover wont be provided. And that if 
the policy holder doesnt contact RAC before requesting services, cover wont be provided. 
Its not in dispute that Mr B contacted a garage and drove his car to it for a diagnostic check 
before speaking to RAC, as hes told this Service he hoped the fault with his car could be 
fixed without needing to involve RAC. So, on the face of it, Mr B hasnt complied with the 
policy conditions.
Mr B has said his car wasnt repaired by the garage and was parked outside the garage so 
was easily accessible to RAC had it wanted to inspect it. I accept Mr Bs car wasnt repaired 
by the garage  I dont think this is disputed - but whats relevant is whether his car was 
already at a garage or another place of repair when he sought cover. And even if his car 
wasnt parked on the garages property, it had already been looked at by the repairer, and 
so, I dont consider it being parked outside the garage to make a material difference here. 
Nor do I consider it reasonable to say Mr B hadnt used the garages services for the 
purpose of the policy term, as having the car checked to diagnose a fault, is a service by its 
very nature. 
Although Mr B said he acted with the best intentions  by having his car inspected by a 
garage in the hope of it being fixed without requiring RACs involvement  the policy requires 
him to contact RAC in the first instance. So, whilst it might have been well intended, Im not 
satisfied this absolves him of his responsibilities under the policy, nor that it would be 
reasonable to direct RAC to provide cover outside of its terms in this situation. 
Mr B has said the policy terms are unfair as the blanket application of them has prevented 
his ability to access the onward travel benefit of the policy. As our Investigator explained, 
insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality, and its common for insurers to 
limit their liability and the costs it might have to pay by requiring the policy holder to take 
certain steps. RAC terms arent out of line with other policies on the market, and I dont 
consider them to be inherently unfair. So, Im not persuaded RAC has treated Mr B unfairly 
by applying these terms and conditions. 
I dont doubt this situation was stressful for Mr B, but in light of the above, Im satisfied 
RACs decision to decline cover and not provide a hire car was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman