DRN-2318984
The complaint
Mr J complains that his debit card stopped working while he was abroad and is unhappy with 
the way Starling Bank Limited (Starling) dealt with this.
What happened
In 2019, Mr J was on holiday abroad with his family. He tried to withdraw cash from an ATM 
but his card was declined. He called Starling, who suggested he try another ATM. Mr J says 
he had to walk some distance with his family to find another cash machine. He says he tried 
using the card in several different machines, but it was declined by all of them. He says he 
had no cash on him and no other means of accessing money.
He called Starling again. They told him that there was nothing wrong with the account and 
suggested he enable the magstripe on the card and try it in the ATM again. Mr J did this, but 
the card was still declined. Mr J says he had to walk all the way back to his hotel with his 
family and they didnt have a meal that evening because they had no money.
The next day, Mr J was still unable to withdraw cash despite trying to do so again. He says 
he and his family didnt eat breakfast that day and couldnt go on the excursion they had 
planned because they had no money to pay for it.
Mr J contacted Starling and they again suggested he try another ATM. In a later call, Starling 
explained that Mr Js card had been temporarily blocked for fraud prevention purposes and 
thats why it kept being declined. Starlings system had flagged a transaction as potentially 
fraudulent and blocked the card. But it was actually Mr Js own attempted transaction which 
had been flagged. Once this issue had been identified, Starling reactivated the card and Mr J 
says he was able to withdraw cash that evening.
Starling agreed that they should have identified the issue earlier. They paid Mr J £89.50 to 
cover his call costs plus compensation of £35 for the inconvenience caused. Mr J wasnt 
happy with that and asked this service to look at the complaint. Our investigator 
recommended that Starling pay Mr J further compensation of £115. But Mr J didnt think that 
was enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience he had experienced, so he asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Mr J says the experience had a very negative impact on his familys holiday. He says he had 
no access to money for two days and his family missed out on a trip which theyd planned. 
He says that meals werent included in his hotel package and he had no money to pay for 
food during this time. Hes very upset about this and also unhappy that he had to spend a lot 
of time on his holiday going to different cash machines and calling Starling. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think its right for Starling to have security measures and procedures in place to 
safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. I dont think they did 
anything wrong here by placing a temporary block on Mr Js account when their system 
flagged a transaction as potentially fraudulent.
But I dont think the way Starling dealt with the situation from that point on was fair. Theyve 
explained that they dont proactively inform customers when their card has been blocked and 
that they wait for the customer to contact them. Mr J did contact Starling (as envisaged by 
this approach), but they didnt identify what the problem was.
Starling says that its telephony agents cant all see whether a block has been applied to a 
customers account. But they say the agents should have asked a team leader to check a 
different system. They accept that didnt happen here and they acknowledge that they 
should have identified the issue earlier.
So, Starling accept that they made some mistakes. But I dont think theyve done enough to 
recognise the impact of this. They knew that Mr J was abroad on a family holiday. He also 
told them that, until the problem with his card was resolved, he had no access to funds. But, 
over the course of several phone calls, the agents Mr J spoke to didnt get to the bottom of 
the issue. The advice they gave (to keep trying the card in different ATMs and enable the 
magstripe) only added to the stress and inconvenience for Mr J. And that solution would 
never have worked given that the card had been blocked. The situation was stressful for Mr 
J to begin with, but the fact that Starling didnt identify the problem straight away made it 
worse and prolonged the period of time Mr J and his family were without access to funds.
Mr J says he had another bank card with him, but there werent enough funds in that account 
to be able to withdraw cash. He says he specifically put money into the Starling account for 
spending while he was on holiday. Im afraid I dont think it was wise for Mr J to travel abroad 
with effectively just one debit card as his only source of funds. So Ive taken that into account 
in reaching my decision. But Im satisfied that the impact of the card being blocked would 
have been much less if Starling had identified the issue the first time Mr J called.
Its very difficult to put a monetary value on the stress and inconvenience caused by a 
situation like this. Mr J has explained in detail the impact it had and Ive taken that into 
account to decide the appropriate level of compensation here. The experience was very 
stressful and worrying and it had a direct impact on Mr Js holiday until the issue was 
resolved. But I have to be impartial, so Ive balanced what Mr J has said against the points 
Starling have made and the overall circumstances here. Our awards arent intended to 
punish a business when mistakes are made, but to try and put right so far as possible the 
upset and inconvenience which has been caused.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I think a further compensation payment of £115 is fair here. 
This will bring the total amount of compensation to £150, including the £35 which Starling 
have already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Starling Bank Limited must now pay further 
compensation of £115 to Mr J.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman