DRN-2818504
The complaint
A complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has unfairly declined a claim for trace and 
access under their all risks policy.
What happened
The circumstances and background of this complaint are well known to both parties. As a 
result Ive summarised events within this decision.
In May 2019 A discovered sitting water within the ground floor of its property. As own 
contractor was unable to locate the cause of the damage. So, A contacted Covea to 
make a claim. In turn it identified a leak from the corner of the building.
Covea said the damage was due to the defective construction of the extension walls 
(having been built without foundations) which caused pressure to the drains and 
cold-water feed under load bearing walls. This led to water escaping which in turn 
caused damage.
Covea declined the claim, citing exclusions relating to the collapse of the building, 
gradually operating causes and inherent vice and defective design.
A said while it accepted the main cause of the damage (the building collapse) was 
due to the inadequate foundations amounting to defective design, it felt a claim for 
trace and access costs related to the escape of water should be covered as there 
was a term in the policy providing cover for subsequent damage.
The complaint was brought to our service and our investigator didnt uphold it, saying 
Covea had fairly applied the policy exclusions when declining the claim. 
A didnt agree so the case was been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I sent my 
provisional thoughts on 30 April 2021, explaining why I intended to uphold the complaint. Ive 
summarised my reasoning below.
As policy is an all risks policy, meaning everything is covered unless it is excluded.
Theres no dispute that the policy excludes damage caused by or consisting of 
inherent vice, latent defect, defective design, plan or specification or the use of faulty 
materials. Nor is it disputed this exclusion applies to the damage caused by the 
collapse of the building.
Under this particular exclusion the policy goes on to say but this shall not exclude 
subsequent damage which results from a cause not otherwise excluded
A argued the escape of water is subsequent damage, and therefore shouldnt be 
excluded. And in turn Covea should settle the trace and access costs incurred.
Covea disagreed the escape of water could be considered an independent, 
intervening cause (and therefore subsequent). It said the propertys construction and 
gradual deterioration on the interior decorations was inevitable as there was no 
barrier in place to prevent the gradual ingress of water. It also said water had been 
entering the property gradually over an extended period of time which had been 
shown through previous leaks. And Covea said if the extension had been correctly 
built (including a damp-proof course), the water wouldnt have been able to enter the 
premises and cause the damage it did. It concluded the water damage was caught 
directly by the exclusion related to defective design.
Its not in dispute that there was no damp-proof course. However, I said if Covea 
sought to rely on the absence of a damp-proof course I wanted it to provide evidence 
to support that this breached regulations at the time of its build.
Under the heading Trace and Access the policy says:
In the event of Damage at the Premises resulting from the escape of water or oil 
from any fixed installation, We will pay for costs necessarily and reasonably incurred 
in: (a) locating the source of Damage in order to effect repairs (b) making good 
Damage is defined in the policy as Loss destruction or damage unless otherwise 
excluded.
There appeared to be no dispute there was loss, destruction or damage at the 
premises as a result of this escape of water. And I thought it was necessary for trace 
and access works to take place to locate the source of this damage. 
So, in line with the policy definition for damage, I considered whether this damage 
was otherwise excluded. Taking into account the specific term under section 18 
(which the other damage has been excluded under) which says this shall not 
exclude subsequent damage which results from a cause not otherwise excluded. I 
explained I was minded to agree that this trace and access cover is not excluded on 
the grounds Covea has previously given. 
I said this as the main exclusion is for damage caused or consisting of defective 
design, and Im satisfied the building collapse is caused by that. And from what Ive 
seen, so is the damaged pipework. But the water damage in question isnt directly 
caused by the defective design  its caused by the leaking pipework  so is 
subsequent damage.
So, I said my intended final decision was to direct Covea to accept the claim for 
escape of water damage, including the trace and access it is seeking. I noted the 
policy specifies that trace and access will cover costs necessarily and reasonably 
incurred in locating the source of damage. And that Coveas final response said if the 
trace and access cover did apply, then these costs would only need to be paid in 
regards to damage caused by the escape of water and not the damaged pipes  
which I agreed with. 
Covea responded to say it disagreed. It said trace and access costs would only be covered 
when a claim for escape of water or oil is made and it hadnt been presented with damage or 
costs related to an escape of water. It said it needed more information before determining 
whether or not to confirm whether the costs presented would be covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In response to my provisional decision, Covea has not provided any new arguments or 
evidence for me to consider. So I see no reason to depart from my initial thoughts.
Im satisfied Covea has previously unfairly declined As claim for trace and access 
costs  and it has failed to demonstrate that an escape of water damage claim would 
be excluded by this policy for the reasons it has given.My decision is to direct Covea to accept a claim for escape of water and trace and 
access costs, and then consider these in light of the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. 
As part of its consideration of these claims it appears likely Covea may need further 
information from A to support this in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. Covea Insurance plc must now accept 
As claim for trace and access and escape of water  subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman