DRN-2335826
The complaint
Mr W complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold him a whole of life assurance policy.
Mr W is a represented by a firm that Ill refer to as F.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In 1984 Mr W was sold a whole of life assurance policy by an adviser that Ill refer to as 
Mr B. It provided an initial sum assured of £25,000 for monthly premiums of £15  with 10% 
yearly escalation included for the first five years. The policy was originally provided by a firm 
that has since been acquired by Phoenix Life.
F contacted Phoenix Life in August 2019 enquiring about the policy. Phoenix Life confirmed 
the policy details and said it was arranged through one of their financial advisers that worked 
as part of their direct salesforce.
F complained to Phoenix Life in October 2019 about the sale of the policy. They considered 
the policy was mis-sold and so thought Mr W should receive a full refund of premiums, plus 
interest.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. They explained the policy was sold by Mr B who, at 
the time, was an intermediary working as an independent financial adviser. And so, they said 
Mr B was responsible for the advice provided. 
F queried the change in Phoenix Lifes position about who was responsible for the sale of 
the policy. Phoenix Life confirmed that their initial response was incorrect and apologised for 
this. They explained however, having checked with their commissions department, that Mr B 
was only part of their direct salesforce up until June 1983 after which his adviser status was 
terminated. An independent financial account was then set up  in June 1983  and the 
policy was sold to Mr W by Mr B in this capacity. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator didnt think Phoenix Life were 
responsible for the sale of the policy. He acknowledged that Phoenix Life had given 
conflicting information in respect of how the policy was sold. But, from Phoenix Lifes 
records, he thought it was more likely arranged by Mr B in his capacity as an intermediary. 
Our investigator felt this was supported by a letter sent to Mr W in 1987 that referred to his 
usual Insurance Adviser and which copied in a firm trading under Mr Bs name. He also 
didnt think it would be fair to hold Phoenix Life to their initial response  when they said Mr B 
sold the policy as part of their direct salesforce  as there wasnt anything to support this. 
Furthermore, while he noted Fs concerns about Phoenix Life saying Mr B worked as an 
independent financial adviser when they didnt exist in 1984, he didnt think this disqualified 
the evidence that is available. That being the 1987 letter referring to the insurance adviser. 
Our investigator also explained, although not necessarily common, some policies were sold 
independently and so the existence of independent financial advisers wasnt a prerequisite 
for it to have been sold to Mr W by an intermediary at the time. 
F disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mr B recommended the whole of life assurance policy to 
Mr W. But rather, whats disputed here is whether Mr B was acting on behalf of Phoenix Life 
or as an intermediary when the advice was provided. Due to the time thats since passed, 
there is limited documentary evidence available. This isnt surprising given the policy was 
sold about 36 years ago. Ive therefore considered what I think is most likely to have 
happened. Having done so, Im not persuaded Phoenix Life is responsible for the sale of the 
policy. Ill explain why.
There isnt a record of who received the initial commission for Mr Ws policy being set up in 
1984. That said, Phoenix Lifes records show Mr Bs employment was terminated in June 
1983. And that, in the same month, an intermediary reference number was also created for 
Mr B at that time. This intermediary reference number was used in the application form by 
Mr B for Mr Ws policy. I consider this evidence strongly supports Phoenix Lifes assertion 
that Mr B was no longer working as part of their direct salesforce when the policy was sold to 
Mr W. 
This change of employment for Mr B also seems to explain why the letter sent to Mr W in 
1987 referring to his usual Insurance Adviser was also provided to the firm trading under 
Mr Bs name. As F points out, this letter was sent three years after the policy was arranged. 
But, while that might be true, I think it supports the idea that Mr W had a relationship with 
Mr B over period of time. So taking Phoenix Lifes records into account, and on balance, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr B arranged the policy for Mr W in his capacity as an 
intermediary. 
I understand F feels very strongly that a key piece of evidence here is that Phoenix Life 
initially confirmed the policy was sold by Mr B as part of their direct salesforce. While Ive 
considered this, I havent seen any documentary evidence to support this happened. 
Instead, and as Ive explained, I think Phoenix Lifes records show Mr B was most likely 
working as an intermediary at the time and Im satisfied Phoenix Life apologised for this 
mistake. 
I likewise consider that, while Phoenix Life wrongly referred to Mr B acting as an 
independent financial adviser in 1984, I dont think this means theyre responsible for the 
sale of the policy. But rather, it seems theyve made an error in responding to the complaint. 
Nevertheless, what is important here is Phoenix Lifes position that Mr B was working 
independently of their firm.
It therefore follows that I dont think Phoenix Life is responsible for the sale of Mr Ws policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman