DRN-1549927
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about the closure of their bank account with Bank of Ireland 
(UK) Plc (BOI). In particular, they are concerned that they were unable to access the 
proceeds of a cheque they paid into the account shortly before it was closed. And they dont 
think they were given an adequate explanation or information about what happened to the 
money.
What happened
In 2019 BOI informed its customers that current accounts it operated for the Post Office 
were being closed. The letters informed customers that they would need to make 
alternative arrangements. The accounts were due to close on 11 September 2019
Mr and Mrs O went into a Post Office branch on 17 September 2019 and paid a cheque into 
their account.
On 19 September 2019 Mr and Mrs Os account was closed and the funds in the account 
transferred into a holding account. When Mr and Mrs O discovered the next day that the 
monies had been moved out of their account, they complained to BOI. They have said that 
calls hadnt been returned, and they hadnt been given a proper explanation as to what had 
happened.
BOI wrote to Mr and Mrs O on 29 October 2019 explaining what had happened. It said 
there had been an administrative error when the account was closed which meant the 
funds hadnt been transferred into their nominated account. The funds were transferred that 
day. It went on to offer £75 compensation for the trouble and upset they had been caused.
Mr and Mrs O werent happy with BOIs response, so they brought the complaint to our 
service to investigate. Our investigator didnt think BOI had given Mr and Mrs O an 
adequate explanation of what happened. She thought £150 would be more appropriate to 
compensate them for the trouble and upset they had incurred.
BOI didnt agree with the level of compensation suggested by the investigator, so the case 
has been passed to me for review.
I wrote to the parties on 29 June 2020, explaining why I disagreed with the level of 
compensation suggested by the investigator and the amount offered by BOI.
In response BOI said in summary, that it didnt think all of its submissions had been taken 
into account and it explained why it thought the £75 it had offered was fair. 
Mr and Mrs O said they thought my review of the case was accurate and reasonable as far 
as it went. They made several points about the conduct of BOI and its communications with 
them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that Mr and Mrs Os complaint should be upheld.
BOI has made several arguments about Mr and Mrs Os concerns and the compensation it 
thinks is appropriate. And it has raised a number of points in response to my provisional 
decision, including that it didnt think a few things had been considered.
My final decision will focus on the points that I think are the most important and relevant in 
order for me to decide whether BOI has done anything wrong and what level of 
compensation is appropriate in this case. So, I wont necessarily address every point that the 
parties think is important to them. But I want to assure BOI and Mr and Mrs O that I have 
read and thought about everything they have provided.
BOI has said that there hadnt been any consideration that despite Mr and Mrs O being told 
on several occasions that the account would be closed, they continued to use it. First, I think 
Mr and Mrs O were entitled to continue to use the account until it was closed. Secondly, my 
main focus is on what BOI did in respect of the issues Mr and Mrs O have complained about, 
not what Mr and Mrs O did or could have done. 
Its not in dispute that there were administrative errors by BOI in respect of Mr and Mrs Os 
current account. The first of these was that they were able to pay money into their account 
when they shouldnt have been allowed to. The second was that the money was then 
transferred into an internal suspense account with BOI rather than to the account that they 
had nominated.
I do think from what Ive seen, that BOI could have given Mr and Mrs O more information 
about what had happened to the balance of their account after it was closed. And having 
been told by Mr and Mrs O that there was a problem on 3 October 2019, I dont think it 
needed to take until 29 October 2019 for BOI to action the transfer of the balance of their 
closed account, to their new nominated account.
I think given what happened, it was right for BOI to offer Mr and Mrs O compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by its administrative errors. But I do think the amount of 
compensation suggested by our investigator is disproportionate to the impact this has had 
on Mr and Mrs O.
I say this because the amount involved is relatively small. And whilst Mr and Mrs O have 
had to expend time in making phone calls to liaise with BOI about what had happened, 
there is always a degree of inconvenience in having to bring a complaint. But I accept Mr 
and Mrs O were trying to find out what happened to their money and I think BOI could 
have given them more information which would have helped them understand what had 
happened. And I dont think the £75 offered by BOI is sufficient to compensate them for 
the inconvenience they have been caused.
Although Mr and Mrs O didnt have the money for a number of weeks after they should 
have, this was for a relatively short period of time. And as Ive said above, this was for a 
relatively small amount of money. So, I think this lessened the impact on them, than if it had 
been for a larger sum of money. As a result, given what Ive said; I think £100 is an 
appropriate sum to compensate Mr and Mrs O for the inconvenience they have been 
caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint about Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc. If Mr and Mrs O accept my decision, I direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to 
pay them £100 in settlement of their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman