DRN-3564729
The complaint
Mr V complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) gave him false information 
when he applied for a credit card.
What happened
Mr V applied for a credit card with Barclaycard, he says he was told a feature of the credit 
card was 0% interest for its lifetime. As such Mr V transferred the balance from another 
credit card. He complained to Barclaycard when he was charged interest the following 
month. 
Barclaycard apologised for giving him incorrect information and refunded the interest it had 
charged. It also supressed the interest on Mr Vs credit card for a further six months and paid 
£100 compensation into the account.  
Mr V didnt think this was enough. He says it was the banks error and he cant pay off the 
balance in six months. He also says other banks offer two to three years 0% interest or 
minimal interest for the lifetime of the credit card and he thinks Barclaycard should offer him 
the same.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he thought 
Barclaycards offer was fair. He said the six months 0% interest it offered was sufficient time 
to allow Mr V to find another credit card providing a longer 0% interest period. Mr V didnt 
accept our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons.
There is no dispute Mr V was given incorrect information when he was told he would have 
0% interest with the credit card. Barclaycard already acknowledged it made an error here. 
So, Ive thought about what happened and how it tried to rectify its error. I appreciate Mr V 
doesnt agree with the settlement it put forward, but I think what Barclaycard offered is fair 
for the following reasons:
When things go wrong, we expect a business to put it right, and usually ask it to put 
the consumer back in the position they would have been in had the error not 
occurred. What we wouldnt expect is for Barclaycard to be bound by the wrong 
information it told Mr V and to have to give him something it doesnt offer.  
Barclaycard says it already refunded the interest Mr V was charged, so I dont think 
hes lost out financially as a result of its error. 
Barclaycard confirmed it didnt have a 0% interest credit card on offer when Mr V 
applied for his card. Had he been given the correct information when he applied, 
Mr V would have had to either accept the credit card on the terms it provided or opt 
not to apply for the credit with Barclaycard. 
I think its unlikely Mr V would have applied for the credit if he knew it didnt offer 0% 
interest, so I think its right Barclaycard offered him 0% interest for as long as it could. 
It said six months is the maximum time it could suppress interest for, and I think that 
gives Mr V a reasonable amount of time to consider other options.
I appreciate Mr V would like two years 0% interest and mentioned that other banks 
are offering this. I also accept Mr V may have previously had 0% interest on a credit 
card with Barclaycard, but I dont think it means Barclaycard has to offer him the 
same now. The way in which it chooses to organise its processes and the products it 
chooses to offer is a commercial matter for it to decide. Its not something we would 
look to interfere with. And, I dont think its reasonable to ask it to offer something 
thats not available currently. 
I appreciate Mr V wouldnt be able to clear the balance on his credit card in six 
months. But Id expect him to take steps to mitigate his losses when things go wrong. 
Ive found several credit cards with 0% interest on balance transfers available on the 
market as he said. So, I must agree with our investigator, I think the six months 0% 
interest Barclaycard offered, afforded him enough time to research and apply for 
credit elsewhere that meets his needs. 
It will have been frustrating to discover the credit card he applied for didnt offer 0% 
interest on balance transfers. And I understand its inconvenient to have to apply for 
another credit card elsewhere. In the circumstances of this complaint, I think 
Barclaycards offer of £100 is fair compensation for the trouble it caused. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr V, but for the reasons Ive mentioned, I wont 
be asking Barclaycard to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman