DRN-4324262
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) caused avoidable delays
in the transferring of shares. He is also unhappy with the level of service he received.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr H contacted II and requested a transfer to them, of shares from another
provider. II say they contacted Mr H subsequently on three occasions in April, May and June
2021 by email, asking that he log the request at the third-party transferor.
II say that as they didnt hear further from Mr H or the transferor, the request was cancelled
at their end on 22 June 2021.
Mr H then contacted II on 23 July 2021, to query the cancellation. After speaking to a
manager as he was not happy with the explanation, he says he was told to send in a transfer
form and that II would contact the transferor on this occasion.
However, II say they didnt receive a form until 25 August 2021 and after asking Mr H to
amend it, the correct form was received on 27 August 2021. II then contacted the transferor,
but their US office. They were then told to contact the UK office on 10 September 2021.
II say they contacted Mr H twice in September 2021 by email, asking if he had initiated the
transfer with the transferor. On 24 September 2021, they then told him that the form was
incorrect as it had the US entity of the transferor. II went ahead with the transfer anyway and
it was completed on 6 October 2021.
Mr H complained to II. He said that the transfer had taken too long (six months from the
original request) and wanted to be compensated for it. He also said that information hadnt
been clear and he was unhappy that he was left with a small shareholding with the
transferor.
II responded to say that they were sorry if they hadnt been clearer in some of their
communications and paid Mr H £100 for the inconvenience of this. However, they said that
the delays had been caused by Mr H not doing what was required and not responding to
them in a timely manner. They also said that a small shareholding had been left as they
were fractional shares (likely purchased through dividend reinvestment) and couldnt be
transferred whole. They explained they would need to be liquidated and the proceeds either
withdrawn, transferred as cash or reinvested.
As no agreement was reached, the case was brought to this service for an independent
review. An investigator looked into it and he said that the £100 offered by II for their role in
the delays was fair. He felt that the majority of the delay was caused by Mr H failing to
respond in a timely manner and providing incorrect transferor details, namely the UK arm
instead of the US.
Mr H responded to say that he didnt agree. He said he wasnt responsible for the delays and
that the II systems and forms werent clear enough. He also said that he had lost money by
being advised not to switch the shares into another investment until the transfer had
completed, as the price subsequently fell.
II have subsequently offered a further £100 to Mr H (total of £200). They said this was to
recognise that they should have identified it was the US arm they needed to contact sooner.
Mr H didnt respond to this increased offer. The case has now been passed to me for a
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2023, an extract is below and forms part of this 
decision.
My provisional decision
I think the new offer made by II to settle this complaint is fair. Ill explain why.
I have first looked at the period from when Mr H told II he wished to transfer a 
shareholding to them in April 2021, until they received a correctly completed form on 
27 August 2021. I think that this delay was primarily caused by Mr H not responding 
and not providing what was required. Mr H was asked on at least three occasions 
during this time to contact the transferor to initiate the transfer. This is standard 
industry practice and wasnt done.
Mr H did finally contact II over the phone on 23 July 2021 and after that, it was 
agreed that a workaround could be found. Where Mr H would complete a form and 
give the relevant information to II, who would contact the transferor to initiate the 
transfer. The necessary information was given correctly on 27 August 2021.
However, I do think II caused a further delay after this point. They contacted the 
incorrect entity of the transferor, despite being aware who the correct arm to contact 
was from the call in July. This caused a period of delay of almost two weeks until a 
rejection letter was received from the transferor on 10 September 2021. This also 
caused some further confusion after this point, when II again asked for new forms 
from Mr H before their transfer team agreed to use the information it had, on 29 
September 2021 and the transfer was completed shortly afterwards at the beginning 
of October.
II have offered a total of £200 compensation for their part in the delays and the 
distress and confusion caused by their lack of clarity. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances and considering the impact caused to Mr H. They are not at fault for 
most of the delay and never did receive all the initially required information for a 
transfer, instead providing several workarounds.
Mr H has queried why his full shareholding wasnt transferred over and there is a 
residual number left. II have confirmed that this is a fractional shareholding, likely 
purchased through dividend reinvestment and cant be transferred over as is industry 
practice. They have given Mr H options to contact the transferor and liquidate the 
holding, to receive or transfer as cash. I think this is fair. 
Mr H has also complained that he should also be compensated for a loss in share 
value, from not being able to switch or sell the investment sooner. He says he was 
told to wait before doing so and the delays caused a loss in value. However, I havent 
seen anything to conclude that he was told this. Mr H could have made the decision 
to switch or sell earlier if he so wished so I dont hold II responsible for that.
In summary, I do think II could have acted quicker and clearer at times. In particular,between 27 August 2021 and 29 September 2021. However, I think their total offer of 
£200 fairly compensates Mr H for the impact of this. Especially considering much of 
the delay was caused by his lack of response and not providing the necessary 
information. I am glad to see that II agreed in the end to facilitate the transfer with the 
information they did have, saving any further delays.
II responded to say that they accepted the findings of the provisional decision and had 
nothing further to add. 
Mr H responded and confirmed he was happy to accept the findings of the provisional 
decision in settlement of the complaint. However, he wanted it recorded that he hadnt 
received the offer of a further £100 and that it was incorrect to say he hadnt responded to it. 
He said that it hadnt been made using his requested method of communication and so he 
hadnt received it, rather than not responding to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is nothing further for me to consider, my decision remains as outlined in my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons. Although I am happy to clarify that I agree with 
Mr H, that he didnt receive the further offer. Not that he didnt respond to it, as previously 
stated. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the further £100 (a total of £200) 
offered by Interactive Investor Services Limited is fair in the circumstances and should be 
paid to Mr H in settlement of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman