DRN-4029676
The complaint
Ms G says Tesco Personal Finance Plc has unfairly declined her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Below, Ive summarised the material facts in this case:
In July 2017, Ms G had an elective surgical procedure to replace breast implants  
one of which had ruptured  with breast implants manufactured by Allergan. The 
procedure cost £6,140  and Ms G used her Tesco credit card account to pay for it. 
In this decision, Ill call the consultant surgeon who performed the procedure Mr A.
Shortly after the procedure, Ms G started to experience some unexplained symptoms 
 including fatigue and nausea.
In January 2020, Ms G saw Mr A in clinic. In a letter to Ms Gs GP, Mr A explained 
that hed examined Ms G and said he didnt think the implants were the cause of her 
symptoms. He recommended further tests. Mr A said that if those tests were 
inconclusive, a specific procedure might help but ultimately [Ms G] may benefit from 
removal of both implants.
In February 2020, Ms G had a mammogram, an MRI scan, and various tests.
In July 2020, Ms G saw a consultant surgeon Ill call Mr B. Mr B sent Ms Gs GP a 
post-consultation letter, which said: the tests she had in February 2020 ruled out any 
obvious cause for her symptoms; her symptoms continued and she had chronic pain 
in her neck, back and legs; Mr B and Ms G had discussed her options and Ms G had 
asked Mr B to remove the implants; and, Mr B had explained to Ms G that removal of 
the implants may not resolve her symptoms.
In October 2020, Ms G had the breast implants removed by Mr B. The procedure 
cost her £6,726.
In or around November 2020, Ms G contacted Tesco to make a claim under 
section 75 of the CCA on the basis that the implants supplied were not of satisfactory 
quality. Specifically, she explained that Allergan had recalled its textured breast 
implants because of concerns they caused breast implant-associated anaplastic 
large cell lymphoma (BIA-ALCL). BIA-ALCL is a rare but serious form of cancer. 
She says she learned of the recall when she met with Mr A in January 2020 to 
discuss her symptoms.
Tesco contacted the hospital, which instructed a law firm to respond to the claim on 
its behalf. The hospital denied that there had been a breach of contract. And Tesco 
declined her claim.
Ms G then referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators thought the possible link between Allergans textured 
implants and BIA-ALCL, and the fact they were recalled by the manufacturer, was 
sufficient to conclude that Ms Gs implants were not of satisfactory quality  and 
recommended that Tesco refund the full cost of the implant surgery (£6,140) with 
simple interest at 8% per year.
Tesco disagreed with our investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
make a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 March 2023, which explained why I was minded to 
uphold this complaint and tell Tesco to refund the cost of the implant surgery with simple 
interest. It included the following provisional findings:
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, that the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Section 9 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant. This says that any 
goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality. And section 9(3) says:
The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects 
(among others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods
(a) fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually 
supplied;

(d) safety;

In December 2018, Allergan announced that it had suspended sales of its textured breast 
implants and was withdrawing any remaining supply in Europe. It suspended sales because 
its Conformit Europenne (CE) Mark for these products wasnt re-awarded. The 
withdrawal decision followed a compulsory recall request from the Agence Nationale de 
Scurit du Mdicament (ANSM)  Frances national agency for the safety of medicines 
and health products. At the same time, an update on the British Association of Aesthetic 
Plastic Surgeons (BAAPS) website said:
The BAAPS has advised its member surgeons not to insert Allergen textured 
implants from today.
In April 2019, the ANSM decided, as a precautionary measure, to restrict the use of certain 
types of textured breast implants (from six different manufacturers), to reduce the exposure 
of women to the risk of [BIA-ALCL] which remains a rare but serious risk.
In May 2019, Health Canada, which regulates products and manages health risks in 
Canada, suspended the licenses for Allergans textured breast implants because the 
potential risks associated with the implants outweigh their benefits, including the rare but 
serious risk of BIA-ALCL. 
And in July 2019, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) asked Allergan to recall 
specific types of its textured breast implants from the US market due to the risk of 
BIA-ALCL. In a statement issued on 24 July 2019, the FDA Principal Deputy Commissioner 
said:
Although the overall incidence of BIA-ALCL appears to be relatively low, once the 
evidence indicated that a specific manufacturers product appears to be directly 
linked to significant patient harm, including death, the FDA took action to alert the 
firm to new evidence indicating a recall is warranted to protect womens health.
Following the FDA request, Allergan announced a worldwide recall of its textured breast 
implants.As Ive explained above, the hospital denied that there had been a breach of contract. First, 
it said it wasnt liable for any acts or omissions of Mr A. Second, regarding the risk of 
BIA-ALCL and the recall of the implants, it said:
The decision of the GMED and ANSM (4 April 2019) to permanently withdraw 
macro-textured implants was a precautionary decision based on limited evidence. 
The decisions in themselves do not support the assertion that textured implants in 
general, and Allergan implants in particular, are not of satisfactory quality. (I 
understand the reference to GMED here to be a reference to the expiration of 
Allergans CE Mark for these products in December 2018 as GMED was working with 
Allergan on the CE Mark renewal process.)
While it admitted that Allergan recalled its textured breast implants globally in 
July 2019, the voluntary recall does not amount to an acceptance that the textured 
breast implants were not satisfactory quality.
The research into a potential link between BIA-ALCL and textured implants is limited 
because the number of instances are so small; BIA-ALCL remains an extremely rare 
disease and the number of known cases is extremely small compared to the 
number of textured implants sold worldwide; there are different types of textured 
implants, of which Allergans are just one; some patients may have had a variety of 
different implants over the years and their medical histories may not always be 
accurate, which further confuses the epidemiological picture; and, the results of 
individual studies should be treated with extreme caution.
The hospital doesnt think there is sufficient evidence to prove that textured implants 
in general, or Allergan textured implants in particular, are associated with a risk or 
increased risk of the development of BIA-ALCL.
The implants supplied to Ms G complied with all relevant standards and regulations 
in place at the time.
When Tesco declined Ms Gs claim, it said:
There was no evidence to show that her implants caused the symptoms she was 
experiencing and Mr B would not confirm they were the cause. (Here, it would be 
more accurate to say Tesco was not willing to pay Mr B the amount he wanted to 
produce a report.)
As the recall of the implants was voluntary, and there was no evidence to show that 
Ms Gs implants were removed for health reasons, it didnt think there was a breach 
of contract.
In reply to our investigators recommendation, Tesco said:
The December 2018 update on the BAAPS website specifically says: There is no 
need to remove or exchange any current implants based on the most up-to-date 
scientific data available.
The CE Mark was temporarily removed purely as a precautionary measure.
In July 2019, the FDA did not recommend removal for patients without symptoms due 
to potential risks.
Ill quote its last point in full: 
Given that theres no evidence that [Ms G] was in any danger as confirmed by 
BAAPS, and the best medical advice at the time was (and still is) not to remove [the 
implants], it is very much an important point that the ongoing symptoms which led her 
to the explant surgery were not due to the implants being of unsatisfactory quality. Ultimately, [Ms G] would have them removed no matter what, due to developing 
unrelated symptoms.
Both Tesco and the hospital say the recall of the type of implant used in this case was 
voluntary  and at the very least imply that this is significant in some way. However, the 
recall in Europe was not voluntary  it was compulsory. Allergan made this clear in the press 
release it issued on the 19 December 2018: The withdrawal decision follows a compulsory 
recall request from Agence Nationale de Scurit du Mdicament (ANSM), the French 
regulatory authority. (Emphasis added.) In any event, when, as here, a product is recalled 
by the manufacturer at the request of a regulator, Im not persuaded that it can accurately be 
described as voluntary  or that theres a difference between a recall in these 
circumstances and a compulsory recall. Similarly, I dont think its accurate to say, as Tesco 
does, that the CE Mark was temporarily removed as a precautionary measure. The 
CE Mark for Allergans textured implants expired in December 2018  and it wasnt renewed 
before Allergan announced a worldwide recall in July 2019.
More substantively, the hospital says it doesnt think there is sufficient evidence to prove that 
textured implants in general, or Allergans textured implants in particular, are associated with 
a risk or increased risk of the development of BIA-ALCL. Regulators around the world, 
however, clearly think there is  and they are, in my opinion, best placed to assess the 
available evidence (whatever its limitations) and to understand the epidemiological picture. 
The FDAs Principal Deputy Commissioners comments are particularly stark in this regard: 
Allergans textured implants [appear] to be directly linked to significant patient harm, 
including death. Its also worth noting that Health Canada updated its 2019 safety review on 
BIA-ALCL in April 2022. The update on its website says:
Updated data from 2019 indicates that the estimated risk of developing BIA-ALCL 
with Allergan [ ] macro-textured implants has roughly doubled since Health Canadas 
2019 review.

An increase in reported cases in Canada is consistent with trends seen in other 
countries, including the United States.
It says the updated risk estimate for Allergans textured implants is 1 in 1,636 compared to 
1 in 3,565 in 2019. For a different manufacturers micro-textured implants, the risk estimate 
is 1 in 17,627 and the risk estimate for a smooth surface implant is zero.
In the circumstances, I think Tesco is wrong to say, theres no evidence [Ms G] was in any 
danger. And in light of the regulators actions and comments, I am, on balance, satisfied that 
the breast implants used were not of satisfactory quality. This was a breach of contract for 
which Tesco is legally answerable.
Ive carefully considered Tescos point that theres no evidence that Ms Gs unexplained 
symptoms were caused by her implants. Later, its position seems to harden in response to 
our investigators recommendation, when it says the symptoms which led to the explant 
surgery were not due to the implants being of unsatisfactory quality. Given the available 
evidence, it simply isnt possible to say what caused Ms Gs symptoms  and there certainly 
isnt sufficient evidence to say unequivocally, as Tesco does, that the symptoms were not 
due to the implants. In any event, I dont think Ms Gs implants were of satisfactory quality for 
the reasons Ive explained above  irrespective of whether or not they caused her 
symptoms.
Similarly, while I appreciate the FDA, Health Canada and the UK regulator  the 
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA)  dont generally 
recommend preventive removal for patients without symptoms because of the risks associated with surgery, having provisionally concluded that the implants used were not of 
satisfactory quality, I think it was for Ms G to weigh up the risks involved and decide what 
was right for her.
As Im considering Tescos liability for a like claim, its important I consider what remedies 
or relief a court may order against the supplier in similar circumstances. That said, unlike a 
court, I cant make an award for loss of amenity, which refers to the impact an injury has 
had or will have on someones quality of life. I appreciate that Ms G hasnt asked me to 
make an award of this sort, but its important she knows that this is something a court can 
consider that I cannot.
I can, however, make a money award to compensate Ms G for any financial loss  which is 
something a court would also consider in a case like this. 
Here, I think Tesco should refund the cost of the implant surgery (£6,140). 
Ive carefully considered whether I think it should also refund the cost of the explant surgery. 
However, as Ive explained above, the Allergan implants replaced other implants  one of 
which had ruptured. Ms G told us that if shed known about the risk of BIA-ALCL and the 
symptoms shed experience, she would have simply had an explant surgery in 2017. So its 
likely she would have incurred the cost of an explant surgery in any event. Consequently, Im 
not currently minded to tell Tesco to refund the cost of the explant surgery.
Finally, if Ms G accepts my final decision  which I will issue when Ive had the chance to 
consider any additional comments or evidence I get  it may prevent her from subsequently 
suing either the supplier or Tesco in court for any complications caused by these implants. 
Ms G may therefore wish to seek some independent legal advice.
I asked Ms G and Tesco to send me any additional comments or evidence theyd like me to 
consider by 15 March 2023.
Ms G has confirmed that shes received my provisional decision and says she has nothing to 
add.
Tesco has also confirmed that its received my provisional decision. It hasnt sent me any 
further comments or evidence to consider, or asked for an extension to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent been asked to consider any additional comments or evidence, I confirm my 
provisional findings. My reasons remain the same.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance Plc to 
refund the cost of the implant surgery (£6,140) with simple interest at 8% per year from the 
date it declined Ms Gs claim until the date she receives the refund.
If Tesco think its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax from the 
simple interest it pays, it should tell Ms G how much its deducted and give her a certificate if 
she asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman