DRN-2840707
The complaint
E complains Santander UK Plc closed its business account and recorded a marker with 
CIFAs. It asks for the marker to be removed and compensation for its losses.
What happened
Mr O is the director of E, a limited company, and brings this complaint on its behalf. E held a 
business account with Santander. In 2019, Santander was contacted by Es merchant 
payment services provider about a payment made to Es account. Mr O made the payment 
using a payment terminal.
 
Santander reviewed the payment and blocked Es account. It asked Mr O questions about 
the payment and several others, and Mr O provided it with some information. Santander 
decided to close Es account and recorded a marker on the National Fraud Database 
operated by CIFAs, an established fraud prevention agency.
Mr O complained to Santander, but Santander rejected the complaint. It said it closed Es 
account in line with the account terms and was able to record the CIFAs marker. Unhappy 
with this response, Mr O brought Es complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Es complaint and decided Santander had acted fairly. They 
found:
Santander was able to block Es account. It had important legal and regulatory 
obligations to fulfil and could block the account while it carried out a review. It had 
been contacted by the merchant payment services provider about an unauthorised 
payment, so it was understandable why it had a concern and reviewed the account.
Santander had the discretion to close Es account. It applied the correct account 
terms, so it hadnt done anything wrong.
Santander was able to record the marker with CIFAs. Looking at all the information, 
there wasnt enough to tell it to remove the marker.
Mr O disagreed with the investigator. He said he was fine about Santander closing the 
account, but the CIFAs marker was unfair. He had not committed fraud and reiterated the 
payment problem was caused by the merchant payment services provider experiencing a 
system issue. 
Mr O asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr O said he is fine about Es account closing. So, Ive not considered this point any 
further, other than to say Im satisfied Santander could close the account and it 
reasonably applied the correct account terms.
The investigator was right to say Santander has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must account for. After Es merchant payment services provider 
contacted it about an unauthorised payment, it was understandable why it reviewed 
and blocked the account.
Santander needed to meet the evidential threshold CIFAS requires of its members to 
record the marker. But Santander isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt 
that Mr O was involved in a fraud. Indeed, a criminal investigation and prosecution is 
a matter for the police and crown prosecution service to conduct.
Nonetheless, reporting a CIFAS marker requires Santander to have enough robust 
information to confidently report the conduct of Mr O to the police, although it doesnt 
need to report him. This means it needed to have more than a mere suspicion to 
register a marker.
Mr O disputes being implicated or having knowledge of anything untoward in relation 
to the payment. And its not for me to make a finding that he is or isnt guilty of a 
crime; indeed, its possible he is innocent of any wrongdoing. Instead, what I must 
consider is whether the evidential threshold CIFAS requires was met. And I find there 
is enough information for Santander to have recorded the marker.
Mr O said he encountered difficulties making the payment using the payment 
terminal. He says an authorisation code was generated by the terminal, but the 
payment wouldnt go through. He recalls speaking to the merchant payment services 
provider who told him there were system problems. He made the payment the next 
day using the same code. But, Im not persuaded Mr Os version of events 
corresponds to the information I have.
The merchant payment services provider has no record of him ringing the day before 
the payment. Instead it has a record of him ringing several days later. Neither does 
the payment terminal provider have a record of him ringing until the day after the 
payment was made. So, I dont find Mr O did make the phone calls he says he did.
The information Mr O provided about the payment attempts he made the day before 
the payment does not establish how he got the payment authorisation code. The 
code isnt on any of the cancelled payment receipts. So, Im not satisfied he got the 
code from the payment terminal the day before the payment.
The merchant services provider has no record of system issues the day the payment 
was made or the day before, when Mr O says he encountered a problem. Ive no 
reason to doubt the accuracy of the providers records. They reliably show the 
payment was forced through using a code neither card issuer or merchant services 
provider recognised.
Mr O first told the merchant payment services provider his customer gave him the 
code. He later said the terminal generated the code. He said he misunderstood what the code was and thought it meant the customers card details. But I dont find his 
explanation persuasive. I doubt it would have taken as long as it did to realise an 
authorisation code was something different. And its quite clear an authorisation code 
is different to the card details of a customer.
E is now experiencing severe difficulties continuing to trade. And, I dont doubt a CIFAs 
marker may affect the decisions other account providers make in regard to E. But I dont find 
Santander acted unreasonably recording the marker. So, I am not going to direct its removal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, Ive decided not to uphold Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision on Es behalf before 16 July 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman