DRN-2379613
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs Z booked a trip to a country in South East Asia. They were 
due to fly from the UK to that country on 1 February 2020, with a layover in Beijing. Shortly 
before they were due to fly, given other airlines had begun cancelling flights to China as a 
result of Covid-19, Mr Z called his airline to check whether their flight would be affected. Mr 
and Mrs Z say they were told to travel as planned. On 31 January 2020, the day before they 
were due to travel, Mr and Mrs Z took out a travel insurance policy online.
Mr and Mrs Z flew to Beijing as planned. However, during their layover, they learned that the 
government of the country theyd planned to travel to had declared that travellers wouldnt be 
allowed to enter the country for two weeks if theyd been in China. Mr and Mrs Z tried to 
make other arrangements with their airline while they were in Beijing. However, as Mr and 
Mrs Z wanted to spend some time in their planned destination, they organised a one-way 
ticket to another country, where they stayed for two weeks until they could fly onto their 
original destination. Their original flight back to the UK had also been cancelled, so Mr and 
Mrs Z had to pay for an alternative flight back.
As a result of the disruption to their plans, Mr and Mrs Z lost out on the costs of pre-booked 
internal flights in the country theyd been due to travel to; pre-booked accommodation and 
the costs of their original return flight. They also incurred additional accommodation and 
travel costs due to their decision to spend two weeks in another country. Mr and Mrs Z had 
to leave behind some of their luggage and incurred other miscellaneous costs. So they made 
a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs theyd incurred.
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Zs claim. It said the curtailment section of the policy 
didnt cover their situation. It said the policy specifically excluded claims where the FCO had 
advised against all but essential travel to a particular destination. And it stated that Mr and 
Mrs Z had already known their trip could be affected by Covid-19 before they took out the 
insurance policy  so it considered they were aware there was a chance they might need to 
make a claim.
Mr and Mrs Z were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Zs complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
no travel insurance policy would cover the costs of the abandoned luggage or postage. She 
didnt think their claim was covered by the curtailment section of the policy, as it specifically 
excluded claims arising from prohibitive actions of the government of any country, or 
amendment of a trip due to government action. 
The investigator also noted that the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) had advised 
against all but essential travel to China on 28 January 2020  three days before Mr and Mrs 
Z had taken out their policy. Travelling against FCO advice was excluded by the policy 
terms. And she felt that it was most likely Mr and Mrs Z had been aware that Covid-19 could 
disrupt their travel plans before they bought the policy. So she thought it was fair for Great 
Lakes to consider Mr and Mrs Z had been aware of a potential reason to claim at the time 
the policy was sold. This meant she thought it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and 
Mrs Zs claim.
Mr and Mrs Z disagreed. They felt that parts of their original trip had been cancelled as a 
result of Covid-19, rather than curtailed. They didnt agree that theyd been aware that their 
trip might be disrupted due to Covid-19  they felt theyd carried out due diligence in 
checking with their airline whether the flight would go ahead. If theyd known what would 
happen, theyd have booked a different layover. They said their lives had been risked by 
being stranded in Beijing at the height of the pandemic. They also didnt feel the FCO 
exclusion clause should apply, as they hadnt been travelling to China  their actual 
destination was another country. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I should make it clear that in this decision, Im 
only looking at whether it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Zs claim. Mr and 
Mrs Z also complained to us about the sale of their policy by a separate financial business, 
which has been considered separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Zs claim. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr 
and Mrs Zs policy; the available evidence and the circumstances of their claim to decide 
whether Great Lakes handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Zs policy, as it forms their 
contract with Great Lakes. Great Lakes considered the claim under Section A  Cancellation 
or Curtailment. This says:
What is covered:
We will reimburse up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Benefits (for the cover level as 
shown on Your Policy Certificate) in total under this policy for financial loss You suffer, being 
non-refundable deposits and amounts You have paid for travel and accommodation You do 
not use because of Your inability to commence travel or complete the trip.
Cancellation cover applies if You have booked a Trip to take place within the Period of 
Insurance, but You are forced to cancel Your travel plans because of one of the following 
changes in circumstances, which is beyond Your control, and of which You were unaware at 
the time You booked the Trip
Curtailment cover applies if You are forced to cut short a Trip You have commenced, and 
return to Your Home Country, because of one of the following changes in circumstances 
which is beyond Your control, and of which You were unaware at the time You booked the 
Trip. Curtailment claims will be calculated from the date of return to Your Home Country.Mr and Mrs Z feel strongly that the first two weeks of their trip were cancelled due to the 
restrictions placed on their travel plans by the government of the country they were travelling 
to. But cancellation cover is intended to apply before a policyholder departs their home and 
starts their trip. Mr and Mrs Z had already left the UK and begun their trip. So while their 
plans were disrupted and some of their pre-booked travel and accommodation were 
consequently cancelled, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that their trip itself should 
be treated as cancelled. And curtailment is defined in the policy as an unexpected and 
insured event which requires your early return home, or the period you are hospitalised as 
an in-patient abroad. Mr and Mrs Z didnt return to the UK early and they didnt cut short 
their trip. So on a strict interpretation of the policy, I dont think it was unreasonable for Great 
Lakes to decide that the claim wasnt covered.
Even if I did think Mr and Mrs Zs trip should be treated either as cancelled, or effectively 
curtailed though, Id still think it was fair for Great Lakes to conclude their claim was 
excluded. The policy outlines an exhaustive list of insured events which are covered for 
cancellation or curtailment. This includes compulsory quarantine. Arguably, the decision of 
the government of the country they were travelling to to restrict entry to visitors from China 
for two weeks could constitute a two-week period of quarantine before Mr and Mrs Z could 
fly into the country.
But this section also includes a specific list of things that arent covered. So Ive looked 
carefully at this list to see whether any exclusions apply which would mean it would be fair 
for Great Lakes to turn down the claim. The policy says:
What is not covered
Prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment of the 
booked Trip due to government action.
Its clear the reason Mr and Mrs Z couldnt fly into their destination country as planned was 
because of its governments decision to restrict entry to travellers whod been in China. This 
led Mr and Mrs Z to amend their trip. So while I appreciate at the point they boarded their 
flight from the UK, Mr and Mrs Z didnt know that this restriction would be imposed, I think it 
was fair for Great Lakes to decide that the above exclusion clause did apply to their claim. 
Because I think it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on the above exclusion clause and the 
terms of its policy to decide Mr and Mrs Zs claim wasnt covered, I dont think I need to 
consider whether the FCO exclusion clause should also apply to their claim.
Great Lakes has also stated that it considers Mr and Mrs Z were aware of a reason they 
might need to make a claim when they first took out the policy. Ive thought carefully about 
whether it was reasonable for Great Lakes to reach this conclusion. 
Mr and Mrs Z told Great Lakes (and us) that theyd called their airline a couple of days 
before they were due to fly on 1 February 2020, to check whether their flight would be going 
ahead, given other airlines were cancelling flights to China due to Covid-19. They also 
referred to the fact the World Health Organisation had declared Covid-19 to be an 
emergency. Ive borne in mind that based on what they told Great Lakes, their call to the 
airline was prior to them taking out the insurance policy on 31 January 2020. So it seems to 
me that they likely were aware that Covid-19 could potentially affect their travel plans. Ive 
also considered the fact that the FCO had advised against all but essential travel to China on 
28 January 2020 as a result of the pandemic and that the situation was being widely 
reported.Taking the above into account, I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr 
and Mrs Z were most likely aware that their trip could potentially be affected by Covid-19 
when they took out their policy on 31 January 2020, which was some months after theyd 
booked their trip. Insurance policies are designed to protect policyholders against 
unforeseen and unexpected events.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs Z likely couldnt have foreseen 
the extent of the disruption to their plans. But given the timeline of events in this case, I think 
it was fair for Great Lakes to consider that Mr and Mrs Z were aware of a reason they might 
need to claim when they bought their policy in the circumstances of this particular case.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Zs position, as I understand theyre 
substantially out of pocket, I think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down 
their claim. This means Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Zs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman