DRN-2364904
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the service hes received from VFX Financial PLC (EasyFX).
What happened
Mr W has complained that he lost access to his EasyFX mobile app. Hes explained this 
meant he had to obtain foreign currency elsewhere. Hes also explained that hes received 
poor service from it overall, but some of the impact on him of this is private and 
confidential. Hed like compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think EasyFX had 
behaved unreasonably. She noted that EasyFX had contacted Mr W within 48 hours of him 
emailing him about the issues he was experiencing. She could also see from online 
records, that Mr W had access to his account on the day he had issues with the mobile app 
and the days following this. He had also been able to perform transactions abroad. 
Although she appreciated it may not have been ideal for him to have to use the EasyFX 
website instead of the mobile app, she didnt think this was a significant inconvenience.
The investigator also looked at the messages Mr W had received. He was unhappy about 
the number of text messages about EasyFXs systems. He feels they were forced upon 
him, as he hadnt agreed to receiving them. She noted he was sent 11 text messages in 
2018, 12 messages in 2019 and three messages in January and February 2020. These 
were in respect of: system and service maintenance, upgrades and issues (and resolution 
updates in respect of these); currency card stock availability; and login authentication.
Our investigator didnt think these messages were excessive or unnecessary. She also 
looked at EasyFXs Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy, which allow for these to be 
sent. However, EasyFX confirmed that Mr W had opted out of all marketing 
communication, and that accordingly he hadnt received marketing messages.
Lastly, our investigator looked into whether there had been delays when Mr W complained. 
She could see he asked to raise a formal complaint in an email dated 29 May 2018. The 
staff member was out of the office, so an automatic response was sent, advising Mr W to 
get in touch with another colleague. The staff member responded on her return to work on 
18 June 2018 and apologised for the delay, but a complaint wasnt raised. In its final 
response letter, EasyFX explained that this was because it felt that the issue regarding the 
mobile app had been resolved. It said it hadnt heard back from Mr W after the staff 
members email, so the matter was closed.
Mr W did later contact EasyFX, on 6 October 2019. This was to say he was unhappy with 
how the matter had been dealt with. Our investigator was satisfied that EasyFX had 
behaved reasonably. Although perhaps a complaint could have been raised, she didnt 
think it was inherently unreasonable that it wasnt, as Mr W hadnt responded. But when he 
did in October 2019, the complaint was raised.
Mr W was also unhappy about how this was handled. He explained he was only available 
outside certain hours, due to work commitments. These times were outside EasyFXs 
office hours. However, our investigator said that EasyFX had accommodated this, by 
making contact when it was most convenient for Mr W.
For these reasons, our investigator thought EasyFX had behaved reasonably, so didnt 
ask it to do anything further.
Mr W disagreed, so his complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator, and for the same reasons.
I can see Mr W had problems using the app. But Im satisfied that EasyFX responded 
within a reasonable time. And although it may have been less convenient, Mr W was able 
to use the website and perform transactions abroad, as shown by the account activity.
As regards the text messages, I agree they werent excessive. They were either 
system updates or log in authentications, and the receipt of these forms part of the 
terms and conditions of the account. Mr W had opted out of marketing messages, and 
so hadnt received any of these.
Finally, I dont think it was inherently unreasonable that EasyFX didnt log a formal 
complaint in 2018. Mr W didnt respond to its message, and as the issue with the app 
had been resolved, I think it was reasonable for EasyFX to consider the matter closed at 
that point. I can also see that it contacted Mr W at his preferred times, once the 
complaint was raised following Mr Ws further contact.
For these reasons, I dont think EasyFX has behaved unreasonably, so I wont be asking 
it to pay Mr W any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman