DRN-3781664
The complaint
Mr W complains Saga Services Limited (Saga) mis-sold him a home insurance policy 
because he was not made aware of a policy endorsement in relation to the flat roof clause. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
 Mr W generated a quote using an online price comparison site
Saga says it sent the quote by email and this email contained the link to retrieve the 
quote information pack. It says the pack contained the information about the 
endorsement
Mr W says the endorsement concerning the roof wasnt included and had it been he 
would not have gone ahead with the purchase of the policy
Mr W called Saga the following day, he enquired about some of the assumptions that 
were recorded in the documentation. He then proceeded to take out the policy and 
pay for it. But he says he wasnt made aware of the endorsement
Saga says it checked with Mr W on the call that he had received his quote 
documentation which he confirmed he had. It says it was therefore not required to 
read out any applicable endorsements as this information was outlined in the quote 
information pack 
Mr W complained to Saga, although Saga says no error was made it agreed to 
cancel the policy and refund Mr W in full 
Mr W remained unhappy and feels he should be compensated for the stress and 
anxiety Saga caused 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W has therefore asked for his 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W obtained a quote using a price comparison website. He was sent the quote by email 
and within this email there was a link to the online portal to obtain his quote information 
pack. This type of sale is classed as a non advised sale.
Ive looked at the pack, it contained a covering letter, schedule, statement of insurance, 
important information you need to know about your insurer, about our services, and product 
information documents. I can see the endorsement information was contained within the 
statement of insurance document, and the cover letter highlighted to check the 
endorsements and where to find them in the pack. This is what Id expect to see for a non 
advised sale and allows a consumer to make an informed decision whether to purchase the 
policy or not.
However, I am aware Mr W disagrees and thinks that Saga have lied and done a 
subsequent cover up. I have seen no evidence of this. On balance Im satisfied Mr W was 
sent the quote information by email as he confirmed he received it during the call he had 
with Saga. During the call Mr W refers to the assumptions in the statement of insurance 
concerning the roof being predominately made of tiles/slate/concrete/metal and says the 
assumption is incorrect as he has some flat roofs. This led to a discussion about the 
percentage of the roof that is flat and the construction of them. Then Mr W was asked if he 
would like to continue and he chooses to purchase the policy. Mr W also raised in the call 
that he had seen that the home emergency section didnt cover flat roofs and the advisor 
confirmed that was correct. 
So, from listening to this call, Im satisfied that the documents Ive seen were available to Mr 
W in the quote information pack. As I mentioned this sale wasnt advised and as the 
information had already been provided via the link in the email, I wouldnt have expected the 
advisor to reiterate the key information including any endorsements during the call.
Mr W requested the policy documents were sent by post, I can see these were generated on 
30 May 2022 and addressed correctly to Mr W. This information also contained the 
endorsements. 
I havent seen any evidence that Saga has made an error. And I can see when Mr W no 
longer wanted the policy, Saga cancelled it and refunded his premiums in full. I appreciate 
the first refund there was a shortfall of £25.51 and Mr W had to chase for this. But Im 
satisfied that this was processed in a satisfactory amount of time. Overall, I am therefore 
satisfied this is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint, and I wont be asking 
Saga to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman