DRN-2507222
The complaint
Mr Ps unhappy about how long it took esure Insurance Limited (esure) to repair his car 
under his motor insurance policy and the quality of the repairs. He thinks esure should have 
written the car off. And hes said hes been caused significant trouble and upset.
All references to esure include its agents. 
What happened
Mr P has a motor insurance policy which started in March 2019. In June 2019, he made a 
claim on the policy as his car had been stolen. Once it was recovered, esure arranged for 
repairs to be made by a dealership. There was initially a disagreement over whether damage 
caused during the recovery would be covered but, ultimately it was.
Esure has said one of the parts that needed replacing was a specialist part that needed to 
be built specifically for Mr Ps car. At the end of August 2019 the part arrived but it didnt 
match the one that was already in Mr Ps car. So it needed to be ordered again. Mr P was 
initially told this could take three months but the car was repaired on 26 September 2019.
Mr P complained a number of times to esure about the time it was taking for his car to be 
repaired. Hes explained he used his car for work and not having it significantly impacted his 
personal and work life. He also wasnt happy with the courtesy car esure gave him as it was 
small and aggravated his back problems.
Mr P says his car broke down after he collected it from the dealership. Esure said it tried to 
arrange further repairs on the car through the dealership and offered Mr P a courtesy car in 
the meantime. But Mr P arranged repairs himself elsewhere instead. He told esure during a 
phone call that these repairs took a further week during which time he was without a car.
During this same call (which weve been given a recording of), Mr P explained the second 
dealership carried out a number of repairs which werent done properly the first time. Hes 
also told us he part-exchanged the car a few months later as he thought it was unsafe.
Esure has pointed out during the call, Mr P said the only outstanding problem with the car 
was cosmetic damage to its interior.
 Mr P thinks esure shouldve written his car off and he wants it to cover his payments for his 
car under his finance agreement while he was without it. Hes said he took a lot of time 
chasing esure so he thinks it should cover his wages for the time hes had off.
Esure apologised for whats happened and paid Mr P a total of £450 for the delays and the 
issues he experienced once he received the car back but it didnt agree the car shouldve 
been written off. It made a complaint to the dealership on Mr Ps behalf and says it provided 
a courtesy car in line with its policy terms. It said the delays were unavoidable.
Mr P asked our service to look into things. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and 
as Mr P didnt agree with her opinion, the case was passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2020. In summary, I said the 
complaint should be upheld and esure should pay Mr P a further £300 because I thought:
The dealership acted on esures behalf  so it was responsible for what went wrong. And 
it shouldve been aware of this. Instead I thought it had told Mr P it wasnt responsible  
and that caused him to pursue a complaint against the dealership himself. 
The amount of time that passed before Mr P initially received his car back from the 
dealership wasnt significant or avoidable due to the parts needed.
Mr Ps expectations of what would happen exceeded the usual process. And I was 
satisfied it was his choice to get in touch regularly rather than it being necessary. 
It was fair for esure to repair the car rather than declaring it a total loss.
It wouldve been disappointing for Mr P to find there were ongoing problems when the 
car was returned. And it was reasonable he got it repaired by a different repairer.
The compensation esure had paid Mr P to make up for what had gone wrong and the 
stress he felt wasnt enough. Hed been without his car and due to the ongoing problems, 
a member of his family got locked in his car and the boot opened while he was driving. 
There wasnt enough evidence there were ongoing issues with the function of the car or 
that Mr P gave esure a chance to put things right before he part exchanged his car.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Mr P 
didnt agree with my provisional findings, he said in summary:
He suffered considerably from the amount of time it took for his car to be repaired.
He had to arrange the further repairs himself as no one could recover the car or help 
him. And esure was no longer helping with the claim.
He was told by experts the repairs were flawed and the car had been incorrectly wired.
He was without a car while it was being repaired. He needed to take time off work due to 
this and because he needed to drive the car a distance to get it repaired. 
The electrics were only repaired around six weeks after he got the car back. But even 
then, they were never fully repaired and technical issues returned. So he sold his car. 
And because the interior of it was never repaired, it lost value.
When his family member got locked in the car, it wasnt just distressing. And the 
compensation he received didnt cover all of his losses when the boot opened. 
Esure didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary, it said Mr P was repeatedly 
offered a courtesy car  including when his car needed further repairs. But he declined it and 
chose to borrow a car. And when he told it about the boot opening and his family member 
getting locked in the car, he seemed to find it funny, not distressing. It also said it was his 
choice to pursue a complaint against the dealership and didnt give him wrong information.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps said he suffered considerably from being without his car for four months. And whilst 
that might be the case, Ive considered whether he was without his car for an unreasonable 
length of time or whether esure couldve done anything more to repair it sooner. In this case, 
the majority of the time Mr P was without his car was when it was being repaired initially. 
And I dont think this amount of time was avoidable considering the parts needed to be 
manufactured. During this time, Mr P was offered a courtesy car so he could still get around. 
In any insurance claim, I would expect some element of inconvenience  and I dont think 
what Mr P experienced was beyond a reasonable level. 
Once Mr P did receive his car back however, I do think it wouldve been very stressful to find 
there were still problems with it. And Im satisfied he was inconvenienced unnecessarily at 
this point. 
Esure doesnt agree with Mr Ps version of events of what happened after picking his car up. 
From the emails its given me, I can see its network repairer arranged for some work to be 
carried out immediately which stopped some issues but the car needed further work. Esure 
tried to arrange for the original dealership to carry out further work but they were unable to 
straight away because they didnt have a courtesy car for Mr P to use in the meantime. 
Esure offered to arrange this for Mr P so that his car could be taken in and repaired quicker. 
But he declined this offer and chose to have it repaired by another repairer as it would be 
able to collect the car from his house and would keep the car for less time. 
Whilst I can understand why Mr P chose not to get the further repairs done by the original 
dealership, I dont agree esure was unwilling to assist him  or that it didnt help when his car 
had further problems. In any event, whilst I accept esure offered Mr P a courtesy car so the 
original dealership could do the work, overall, I can understand why he might not have 
wanted to make the journey to that dealership when the car still had problems  and his own 
repairer said it could collect the car and do the repairs in one day. And from the emails esure 
has given me, it seems to me the offer of a courtesy car was just so that the original 
dealership could the works straight away.
Esure hasnt given us a recording of the call when Mr P reported his boot had opened while 
he was driving at speed and his family member was locked in the car. Hes consistently told 
us these events were distressing and made him worried to drive his car. Hes also explained 
this to esure. I dont think its unusual or unreasonable for someone to talk about an incident 
in a calm manner after its happened. And I can see esure informed the dealership about 
what had happened and seemed to accept Mr P was worried about driving his car. So what 
esure has told me about Mr P laughing about the events over the phone isnt enough to 
make me think what hes told us about how he felt wasnt true  or that they had no impact 
on him.
Mr Ps highlighted again that the initial repairs werent done correctly and he had ongoing 
problems with the car which led him to sell it. But from the last communication Ive seen 
between him and esure, Im not satisfied there were ongoing issues with the car  or that he 
gave it the chance to put things right. Instead, he reported that the new repairers had 
identified and were fixing all of the problems and I cant see that he got in touch to report 
anything further. So Im not satisfied Mr P gave esure the opportunity to put these things 
right before he sold his car.From everything Ive seen in this case, Im satisfied the dealership that carried out the initial 
repairs on Mr Ps car was acting on esures behalf as its agent. I say this because it was 
appointed by esures network repairer and not chosen by Mr P. So when the repairs werent 
carried out to a satisfactory standard on the car, and there was potentially further damage 
caused to its interior, I think esure was responsible. Instead, I can see esure passed Mr Ps 
complaint about the interior of the car to the dealership. And during the call recording its 
given us, it told Mr P it didnt have control over the ongoing problems he had. And when 
Mr P asked who does and what he could do, esure suggested he complains directly to the 
dealership or takes legal action. As Mr Ps contract was with esure only, I think it shouldve 
made it clearer to him that he didnt need to pursue action against the dealership.
Overall, having looked at the responses Ive received, Im persuaded Mr P was caused 
significant trouble and upset by esure. So I havent changed my conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision and I think it should pay Mr P a further £300 to put things right.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and direct esure Insurance 
Limited to put things right by paying Mr P another £300 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman