DRN-3957174
The complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) gave him 
loans without carrying out relevant checks to make sure he could afford the repayments. 
Had Lending Stream carried out further checks it wouldve seen, from his credit file several 
outstanding loans that had recently been advanced. 
What happened
Mr S was advanced two loans from Lending Stream and a summary of the borrowing can be 
found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
paymentshighest 
repayment
1 £60 11/08/2017 29/08/2017 6 £23.60
2 £600 29/08/2017 sold 6 £273.60
Mr S has had some problems repaying loan 2, and Lending Stream says it has sold the 
outstanding balance to a third-party collection agency and is therefore no longer responsible 
for collecting any balance that may be due. 
Following his complaint, Lending Stream wrote to Mr S with a final response letter and it 
explained why it wasnt upholding his complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr S referred 
the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Lending Stream made 
a reasonable decision to provide the loans because it carried out a proportionate check 
which showed Lending Stream Mr S would be able to afford the loans.
Lending Stream responded to say it accepted the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr S didnt agree with the outcome. In summary he said.
Mr S provided screen shots showing the other loans he had outstanding at the time.
Mr S has had complaints against these other lenders which have been upheld. 
Mr S explained he had a gambling problem at the time and this wouldve been 
apparent had Lending Stream checked his bank statements. Although Mr S says he 
cant provide his bank statements from this time as he is no longer a customer of that 
bank. 
These loans, as well as the other loans outstanding at the time led him to a debt 
spiral. 
The adjudicator went back to Mrs S to explain why his comments hadnt changed her mind 
about the outcome of the case. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ss income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors 
include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Ss complaint. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint. 
Loan 1
Before this loan was approved, Lending Stream took details of Mr Ss income and 
expenditure. Lending Stream recorded that Mr S worked full time and received a monthly 
salary of £1,700. Mr S says this income ought to have been checked possibly with a payslip, 
but as this was the first loan, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to rely on what it 
was told.  Lending Stream also made enquiries about his living costs. Mr S declared total living costs of 
£475. Lending Stream says this was broken down into living costs of £300 and then 
outstanding credit commitments of £175. However, following Lending Streams checks, it 
increased Mr Ss living costs from £300 to £374.  
This left disposable monthly income of £1,151, which was more than sufficient for Lending 
Stream to reasonably conclude that Mr S could afford the largest monthly committeeman for 
this loan of £23.60. 
Before the loan was advanced, Lending Stream says it also carried out a credit search. It is 
worth saying here that although Lending Stream carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Lending 
Stream couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it 
received  if necessary.  
So, although Mr S has provided screen shots of the outstanding loans he had at the time, Im 
not in this case going to be considering them, because Lending Stream did a credit search 
and has provided the results which it saw at the time of Mr Ss application. It is also worth 
saying here that given how close some of these other loans were taken to the two Lending 
Stream loans it is entirely possible and indeed likely some or all of the other lending may not 
have yet been showing on his credit report and so Lending Stream wouldnt have known 
about them. 
So, I can see what it considered before it approved the loan. In my view, Lending Stream 
was also entitled to rely on the results it was given as it didnt have anything to suggest the 
results were in any way inaccurate. 
Having reviewed what Lending Stream has provided, it was aware of some adverse credit 
file data. For example, it knew Mr S had defaulted on three previous credit accounts but the 
most recent default being recorded 18 months before this loan.  Which in my view, is too 
long ago for Lending Stream to have been concerned by these. Finally, for this loan, it also 
knew that Mr S had four active credit accounts with balances totalling £4,600. 
Given, what Ive seen and been told, I dont think the information Lending Stream was given 
by the credit reference agency indicated Mr S was in financial difficulties. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
Lending Stream to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr S provided. So, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Lending Stream 
to have reviewed his bank statements before granting this loan.  
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream 
to have relied on the information Mr S provided which showed he had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
So, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about the loan.
Loan 2
Mr S repaid loan one much earlier than planned, and then returned on the same day for a 
significantly larger loan  ten times the value of the first. For this loan, Lending Stream 
carried out the same sort of checks as it had done for Mr Ss first loan. 
Mr Ss income had reduced to £1,550 per month. Mr S declared outgoings were £375. 
Lending Stream says this was broken down to £175 for credit commitments and £200 for living costs. As before, Lending Stream increased his living costs by an additional £74 taking 
his living costs up to £274. With, the credit commitments this gave monthly outgoings of 
£449. This left £1,101 to pay the largest loan repayment of £273.60. 
I think its unlikely that Mr Ss monthly living costs (excluding credit commitments) wouldve 
decreased by £100 between loan 1 and 2. So I do think its arguable here that 
Lending Stream may have wanted to do more  perhaps relying on the information Mr S 
provided for his first loan, as these costs were larger. Even if Lending Stream had done that 
 which I dont think wouldve been unreasonable, then this loan still looked affordable. 
Finally, its also not clear why Mr Ss income decreased by £150 in just over two weeks. And 
like the credit commitments perhaps Lending Stream ought to have taken steps to check 
what Mr Ss monthly income actually was. It didnt do this, but as I have nothing from Mr S to 
show what his income actually was in this these circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable, for Lending Stream to have approved this loan.  
Again, a credit search was carried out, and the results are broadly similar to the ones at loan 
1, except this time, Mr S had an extra credit facility showing  which would likely have been 
Lending Streams first loan. But there were no other signs that Mr Ss finances may have 
been deteriorating, for example, there are no new defaulted or delinquent accounts or signs 
that Mr S was entering a debt spiral. 
Taking everything into account, and not withstanding my concerns about the drop in Mr Ss 
income and living costs, I do think it was still reasonable for Lending Stream to have 
provided this loan. 
In my view, the checks were likely proportionate for this loan which showed Mr S would be 
able to afford his repayments. I therefore also dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about his 
second loan.  
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman