DRN-3190012
The complaint
Mr S complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his Pockit account and havent 
released money held in the account back to him.
 
At the time Mr Ss Pockit account was a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard.
What happened
In April 2020, Pockit blocked Mr Ss account whilst they carried out a review. As part of its 
review Pockit asked Mr S to provide some information about him and how he was using his 
account. It asked Mr S for proof of his identification and address. And to explain how he 
funded his account. 
In response, Mr S sent Pockit a copy of his driving licence. And he explained that he used 
his account to buy and sell goods, and to receive his benefit money. But Pockit didnt 
remove the blocks. And told Mr S that it wouldnt be able to provide him with a timeframe for 
when it would be able to complete its review. Pockit also explained that it was entitled to 
carry out a review under the terms and conditions of the account. Meanwhile Mr S was left 
without access to his account. 
Over the following months Mr S sent Pockit several emails to try and find out what was 
happening with his account. He told Pockit that he was struggling and needed access to the 
money in his account to provide for his children. Mr S said that due to the block he had to 
rearrange his benefit payments and open another account, which left his family without 
money for over a month. Pockit apologised and said it was having to deal with reduced staff 
and was doing the best it could to try and move things along. 
Unhappy with a lack of response from Pockit, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He 
wants Pockit to return his account balance. And pay him compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused by his account being blocked, the lack of communication 
from Pockit and being without his funds.
One of our investigators looked into things. She said that Pockit were entitled to review and 
block Mr Ss account. And ask him for information. But she didnt think Pockit had completed 
its review in a timely manner and that Pockit shouldve returned Mr Ss balance to him along 
with interest. She also said Pockit should pay Mr S £75 compensation for taking too long to 
complete its review and not providing Mr S with updates about what was happening with his 
account. 
Mr S agreed. Pockit didnt and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pockit has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. And it must take certain actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre 
also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That 
sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while 
they carry out a review.
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon, including how Mr S was operating his 
account, Im satisfied that they were complying with these obligations when they blocked 
Mr Ss account and asked him for information. The terms and conditions of Mr Ss account 
also permit Pockit to block an account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line with them. So, I 
cant say Pockit did anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Ss account. 
However, while Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Ss account in April 2020.  
Mr S provided them with information on two occasions regarding his address and 
identification. And he told Pockit hed provided all he could regarding the funds in his 
account, which he did quite promptly. But it wasnt until September 2021 that Pockit decided 
to return the money remaining in Mr Ss account back to source  which is 17 months after it 
had first blocked Mr Ss account. And it didnt let Mr S know it had taken the decision to do 
this. So, Mr S was left in the dark, chasing Pockit via email trying to find out what was 
happening with his account. 
From looking at Mr Ss statements it looks like Mr Ss remaining balance was made up of a 
credit from a state benefit, a third party transfer referenced cleaning, another credit of £12 
relating to Mr Ss childrens school and a small cashback of less than £3. Ive looked at the 
information Pockit has provided regarding how Mr S was operating his account and its 
concerns. I accept that Pockit has to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. It is 
entitled and obliged to carry out such checks to help safeguard both the bank and its 
customers from financial crime such as fraud. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr S 
wasnt entitled to the money Pockit says it sent back to source. Or that Pockit had any 
concerns about the source of these funds. I note too that despite being asked by the 
investigator Pockit hasnt shown exactly where the funds were sent. So, Mr S isnt able to 
trace and recover his funds.  
Pockit also hasnt offered much in the way of an explanation for why its review of Mr Ss 
account has taken as long as it has. And why its taken until September 2021 to take any 
action in relation to the balance of Mr Ss account.  Ive looked at the timeline that has been 
provided by Pockit about what it was doing. And I cant see that Pockit did anything to move 
things forward after May 2020, until September 2021 when it decided to close Mr Ss 
account and return his balance to source. I dont consider Mr Ss account being blocked for 
nearly 18 months with little or no contact to be reasonable. 
Im satisfied that Mr S answered Pockits questions regarding his identity and his address. 
He sent Pockit a copy of his driving licence. He also told Pockit he didnt have any 
information to provide regarding the source of the funds in his account. If Pockit needed any 
further information Id expect them to be more proactive and contact Mr S with the details of 
the information still outstanding. But based on the information Ive seen, it hasnt asked Mr S 
for anything further or told Mr S what its doing with the money in his account for quite some 
time. So, I can understand why Mr S is upset.I can see that Mr S sent several emails to Pockit over a number of months chasing the 
release of his money. He made Pockit aware that he was struggling financially, and he 
needed the money to help look after his children. I havent seen anything to suggest Pockit 
reached out to him or acknowledged he maybe in a vulnerable position. And it didnt provide 
Mr S with any updates except to explain that it had back logs due to staff shortages. So, Im 
not satisfied that Pockit has treated Mr S fairly and reasonably. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think Pockit should give Mr S access to the 
balance of his account and pay 8% simple interest on this amount. Pockit should pay the 
interest from the date they completed their review, which from its notes is 29 April 2020, up 
to the date they refund it to him. 
Ive also thought about the trouble and upset this situation caused Mr S. And, I consider £75 
compensation fairly recognises the trouble and upset caused to him. 
    
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. To put things right Wirecard Card 
Solutions Limited should:
Pay Mr S £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review and lack of communication
Refund Mr Ss balance along with 8% interest simple per year from 29 April 2020 
until the date of refund
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Ombudsman