DRN-4038661
The complaint
Mrs D complains about esure Insurance Limiteds valuation of her car.
What happened
Mrs D had car insurance underwritten by esure. She made a claim after her car was stolen.
esure accepted the claim and valued the car at £19,000, which they raised to £19,300 after 
Mrs D queried it.
Mrs D wasnt happy with the valuation and complained to esure. And when they maintained 
their position and said the valuation was fair, Mrs D brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think esure had done anything wrong.
Mrs D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds policy says that if the car is stolen and not recovered, esure will pay the policyholder 
the market value of the car. 
Market value is defined in the policy terms as follows:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car 
for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of 
the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, 
condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research 
from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the 
price you paid when you purchased the car.
In fact, esure used four trade guides when they considered Mrs Ds claim, adding a Cazoo 
search to the three guides listed in the policy terms. As a matter of interest, Cazoo gave the 
highest of the valuations.
The valuations ranged between just over £18,800 just over and just over £19,850. The 
£19,300 offered by esure to Mrs D is right in the middle of that range. Two of the valuations 
were higher than £19,300 and two were lower.
Mrs D has said she cant find an equivalent car advertised for as little as £19,300. Shes 
provided evidence of equivalent cars for sale at higher prices. 
As our investigator pointed out to Mrs D, advertisements reflect the price the seller hopes to 
achieve, not the actual sale price. The trade guides valuations are based on prices at which 
cars actually change hands.
We looked at a fifth guide  Autotrader  which gave a valuation in the same range as the 
guides used by esure.
In short, esure have valued the car in the way they say they will do in the policy terms. And 
we take the view that using the trade guides is a fair and reasonable way to come to 
valuations of cars which are written off or stolen and not recovered.
So, I cant reasonably conclude that esure have acted in any way unfairly towards Mrs D in 
the way they valued her car.
Mrs D believes insurers should value stolen or written off cars in such a way that the 
policyholder can replace them from a main dealer. I can certainly see her point, but thats not 
what her policy offered to do (see the excerpt above). The policy terms are quite clear. And 
theyre not unusual, onerous or inherently unfair. 
Im very sorry that Mrs Ds car was stolen. As shes told us, that is a very unpleasant 
experience and causes no little disruption and inconvenience. But Im satisfied esure have 
handled her claim - and valued her car  appropriately and fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman