DRN-2238450
The complaint
Mr M says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr M bought the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a credit card. It covered him in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ms credit card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It had a 
box that could be ticked if he wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if he didnt want it. The 
box was ticked, and Mr M signed the form to confirm his choices. Then he returned it by post 
in his own time. I think its most likely that RBS made Mr M aware he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he no 
longer remembers doing so after so long.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so they didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
They did have to give Mr M enough information to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information RBS gave Mr M about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. That alone does not necessarily mean that the policy was mis-sold. Instead, the 
question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his mind.
Here, it looks like Mr M chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like he was eligible 
for the policy and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. While he had 
some benefits and savings, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and covered him for 
much longer. And while I understand that Mr M felt secure in his situation, long-term 
illnesses and redundancies can and do happen. So the policy could have been useful for 
Mr M in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so 
Mr M could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information 
about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman