DRN-2909087
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Erudio Student Loans Limited didnt make sufficient efforts to get 
in touch with him, causing him to miss his deferment deadline.
What happened
Mr W has a mortgage-style student loan agreement with Erudio. In 2020, Mr W applied for 
deferment on his student loan. He had moved, but forgot to update his address.
Erudio wrote to him by post asking for some extra documents to confirm Mr Ws income that 
year. They wrote to his old address, and continued to write to it over the following months 
when they didnt hear back. They didnt try any other methods of communication, and did not 
perform any checks or traces to see if the address they were using was up to date.
The deadline went by without Erudio receiving the required evidence, so they ended the 
deferment period and required Mr W to start making repayments on his student loan. They 
sent this notification to the old address, as well as the subsequent chasers and letters 
notifying him about arrears and a default. Mr W didnt see these, so the account defaulted.
Eventually, Mr W found out what had happened and complained. He explained hed moved 
property and hadnt got the letters. But Erudio said that as they hadnt received the evidence 
they wanted by the deadline, they felt they were correct to end the deferment period. And as 
they hadnt received payments for six months after that, they felt they were right to default 
the account too.
I sent Erudio and Mr W a provisional decision on 4 June 2021, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
My role here is to look at not just the letter of the law and regulations, but also what is good 
industry practice and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It seems to me that both sides share responsibility for what happened here. On Mr Ws end, 
he didnt remember to update his address. Its an understandable mistake, and its quite 
common to forget to update ones address with every single company in ones life  put 
simply: these things happen. But it is what caused Erudio to write to the wrong address.
Erudio, meanwhile, did not take any reasonable steps to make sure that they were writing to 
the most up-to-date address, or that Mr W had actually received their correspondence. And 
they did not make any efforts to use alternative ways of getting in touch with him. Even when 
Erudio hadnt had any reply from Mr W in months and critical deadlines were looming, they 
continued to send letters without checking things. Despite the fact that Mr W had kept them 
updated every year and this was most unusual, and despite that they knew it was in their 
customers best interests to fulfil his deferment, Erudio didnt pick up that something was 
probably wrong and didnt do anything about it.
For example, Erudio could have run an address trace  which is a standard practice in the 
industry, or they could have got in touch with Mr W using the alternative contact methods 
they already had on file. Technically speaking, Erudio may not be required to use a contact 
method other than post. But I do not think that their actions here  or inactions  constitute 
good industry practice, nor a reasonable approach to the situation. I think it would have been 
far more reasonable for Erudio to have checked Mr Ws address, or to have tried different 
methods to contact him in case the letters werent getting to him for any reason  after all, 
they can simply get lost in the post, too.
So this situation was not caused only by Mr Ws inaction in failing to update his address, but 
also by Erudios inactions, too. The question, then, is what I think would have happened 
differently.
Mr W has provided his P45 from the time, showing that he earned well below the income 
threshold that year. Hes also forwarded confirmation from his employer that he didnt earn 
anything further and didnt have a P60 as he wasnt employed by them by the end of the tax 
year. And hes provided confirmation from his university that he was a full-time student for 
the rest of the tax year. So it would appear that, had Mr W received Erudios requests for 
evidence, he would have been able to support his continued deferment.
Since both sides share responsibility for things going wrong, I think the fair way to resolve 
this is to treat the situation as if things had gone right  i.e. to put the account in the position 
it would have been in had Mr Ws deferment application been successful.
Another way to think about this is that the point of this loan was that Mr W would only repay 
it once he had a certain amount of income. I must consider whether it would be fair for Mr W 
to be made to repay the loan before he was supposed to, and before he has the appropriate 
income to do so, just because he had a minor administrative oversight which was 
compounded by Erudios lack of care. I dont think thats fair in these circumstances  I think 
its much fairer to put things back to the way they shouldve been.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
2 July 2021. Both sides replied, and Ill talk about their replies below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Erudio argued that it wasnt obligatory for them to check they had the right details or to try 
the other contact methods they had on file when they didnt hear back. But as I said in the 
provisional decision, I look at not only the letter of the law and regulations, but also at what is 
good industry practice and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Technically speaking, Erudio may not have been obligated to take reasonable action to 
make sure Mr W had received their contact. But I dont think that their actions and inactions 
constituted good industry practice, nor a fair and reasonable approach to the situation.
Erudio argued that we cannot tell them to change their processes. But I have not done so. 
Further, Erudio have to treat customers fairly. They should avoid putting processes over 
people, and they should not treat customers unfairly just because a process tells them to. To 
clarify, I am not telling Erudio to change their process  I am telling them to put things right 
where they went wrong in the circumstances of this particular case.Erudio pointed out that Mr W had made an error by not updating his address. But I already 
pointed that out in the provisional decision. I accept that Mr W made an error  albeit a minor 
and common one  by forgetting to update one of the many companies one may need to 
update when moving. This mistake was then compounded by Erudios lack of care. Both 
sides share some responsibility for what happened. So the most reasonable approach is to 
put things back in the position they wouldve been in had things gone as they should have.
Erudio then argued that Mr W had failed to make payments. But thats primarily because 
Erudio were writing to the wrong address, so I dont think thats particularly relevant here. 
Had he received Erudios correspondence, it looks like Mr Ws deferral wouldve been 
successful, and so he wouldnt have needed to make those payments anyway.
Next, Erudio disagreed that Mr W was only supposed to repay the loan when his income 
reached a certain threshold. But thats the main point of the deferment system. And its right 
that I took that into account when considering what shouldve happened.
Lastly, Erudio said they couldnt formally backdate the deferment or reinstate the account. 
But they can instead make arrangements such that the account is treated as if had been 
reinstated and as if the deferment had been successful. Erudio argued it would be unfair to 
do so as they might lose certain enforcement rights. I took that into account, but I think it 
would be far more unfair for Mr W to be made to repay this loan before he was supposed to, 
and before he had the appropriate income to do so, and to suffer a default, just because he 
had a minor administrative oversight which was compounded by Erudios lack of care.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before.
Mr W accepted the provisional decision, but asked if we could make sure his default was 
removed. Per the provisional decision, Im directing Erudio to remove any arrears or default 
from his record and to put the account in the position it would be in had it not defaulted. And 
theyll need to make sure the default is not on his credit file, either. I dont think theres 
anything further that will need doing there.
Putting things right
I direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to take such actions as are necessary to put this 
account in the position it wouldve been in had the 2020 deferment application been 
successful.
That means backdating Mr Ws deferment as if the 2020 application had succeeded, or 
making arrangements so the account is treated as if the 2020 application had succeeded.
It also means either reinstating the terminated loan, or if theyre no longer able to do so, then 
it means making arrangements so the debt is treated as if it had been reinstated  including 
honouring the original terms and conditions (which may involve writing off the loan when 
Mr W reaches a particular age), removing any arrears or default from Mr Ws record, and 
ensuring Mr Ws credit file has not been adversely affected.Lastly, I direct Erudio to make arrangements such that Mr W can continue to apply for 
deferment in 2021, even if he has missed this years deadline. They should instead give him 
a new deadline starting from at least two months after the date of this final decision. And of 
course, I would advise Mr W to make sure that he has given Erudio his latest contact details, 
and to look out for any correspondence about the matter.
Since Erudio were not solely responsible for things going wrong, I do not award any further 
compensation.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint, and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to put things right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman