DRN-3475596
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled his travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr O has travel insurance through his bank account. The policy is insured through Aviva. 
On 17 March 2020, Mr O travelled abroad and was due to return home on 31 March 2020. 
Unfortunately, Mr Os return flight was cancelled as a result of the pandemic and he was 
unable to get back to the UK until 8 May 2020. 
Mr O made a claim to Aviva for additional accommodation costs he incurred during this 
extended period abroad, which amounted to approximately £5000. He provided a receipt for 
the costs incurred, but not much other evidence to support the claim. 
Aviva thought the costs were quite high and didnt think there was much evidence to support 
a payment being made. It appointed an agent in the country Mr O visited to try to obtain 
further evidence of the amounts incurred. 
In February 2021, Aviva accepted the claim but only agreed to cover the costs which it said 
there was evidence of Mr O incurring, and this was taken from his bank statements. This 
sum amounted to approximately £1600.
Unhappy with the settlement amount, Mr O complained to Aviva and brought his complaint 
to this service. He said that he didnt think the settlement was fair as he had provided as 
much information to Aviva as possible in relation to the accommodation costs. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think this should be upheld. She found 
that there was a lack of evidence to support a payment being made for the additional 
accommodation. So, she didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly.
Mr O disagreed with our investigators view. As no agreement could be reached the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has made complaints to Aviva in relation to the progression of his claim. These have 
been considered separately and a separate decision has been issued. This decision refers 
only to the complaints raised by Mr O in relation to events from 27 October 2020 onwards. 
Mr O made a claim to Aviva for just over £5000 in relation to the additional accommodation 
costs he incurred when he had to extend his stay abroad for over five weeks following the 
cancellation of his flight home due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
The travel insurance policy Mr O has with Aviva includes terms and conditions explaining 
what it will and wont cover. The policy includes a section titled Enforced Stay Abroad which 
provides cover for additional travel and accommodation expenses which are incurred if it 
isnt possible to return home as arranged due to certain reasons as detailed under the policy. 
Under this section of the policy, there are special conditions which apply. And one of these 
special conditions is that All claims must be supported by documentary evidence of the 
costs you have incurred.
Aviva has accepted the claim and made a partial settlement  so the cause of Mr Os 
enforced stay isnt in dispute. However, Aviva doesnt think Mr O has provided enough 
evidence to support the accommodation costs he incurred. What I need to consider is 
whether Aviva has acted reasonably by refusing to pay the accommodation costs claimed.
Mr O has said that he paid cash for the accommodation. He provided an invoice for the stay, 
a cash receipt for the payment of these costs and copies of his bank statements as evidence 
of the payment, along with a copy of the tenancy agreement for the rental. 
Having looked at this information, I can see that these documents indicate that an 
agreement was made for the accommodation rental and a cash sum was received, but these 
dont evidence how that payment was made by Mr O. Mr O informed Aviva that he only had 
taken approximately £1000 in cash with him on his trip and so this wouldnt have been 
enough to pay for his additional costs. And the bank statements provided show transactions 
to various individuals, but again the total amount was far less than what Mr O said he paid 
for the accommodation. 
Aviva appointed an agent in the country Mr O visited in order to help validate the claim. I 
think that was a reasonable thing to do so that Aviva could obtain the evidence required to 
support the payment of the accommodation expenses. I understand the agents were initially 
informed that the apartments were not meant to be let out so they couldnt verify that Mr O 
had stayed there. Following further enquiries, the property manager and the property owner 
did confirm Mr Os stay, but the agents were unable to obtain any additional financial 
evidence to support the payment of the accommodation costs. I appreciate this took some 
time to do but Aviva has commented that their efforts were impacted by local lockdowns 
abroad. Aviva did agree to make an offer of £100 in November 2020 as compensation for 
some of those delays which I think is a reasonable sum taking into account the situation at 
the time with the Covid-19 pandemic.
Aviva agreed there was evidence of Mr Os enforced stay abroad and so it accepted that 
there was a valid claim. However, as no further financial evidence was supplied to show the 
transaction history of this payment from Mr O to the property owner, Aviva said it was unable 
to validate the amount claimed. But it agreed to reimburse the withdrawals shown on Mr Os 
bank account, which he said was used to pay for some of his costs. This payment was made 
in February 2021.
Mr O then provided a letter from a friend that he said had lent him the money for the 
accommodation, along with a cash receipt dated 30 March 2020 for an amount just over the 
sum claimed for the additional stay. The agents contacted Mr Os friend who confirmed hed 
lent the money on the understanding it would be paid back to him when Mr O received the 
payment from Aviva. But the friend couldnt show where he had obtained that money from or 
provide his copy of the receipt. The agent also noted differences in the signatures they 
obtained from the friend and the one on the receipt Mr O provided.  
Mr O thinks that he has supplied enough evidence to support his claim. He says it is unclear 
what else he could provide to Aviva to satisfy them of the costs he incurred. He feels that Aviva are not considering that the country he visited still deals in cash payments a lot so 
there isnt a trail. I understand how frustrating this has been for Mr O and Ive thought about 
this matter and the points he has made very carefully. However, I dont think that Aviva has 
acted unfairly when dealing with the claim. Ill explain why.
The amount claimed is not insignificant, so I dont think it is unreasonable for Aviva to 
request evidence to show the financial history of the transaction. And even if the country 
may still predominantly use cash transactions, I would expect larger sums like this to have 
some audit history to show where the cash funds were obtained from. 
There doesnt appear to be any evidence to show this was a rental property, so there isnt 
any way to substantiate the cost of renting the apartment. Along with the concerns over the 
signature differences and lack of documentation from the money lender, I can understand 
why Aviva are asking for the financial trail to be shown before releasing any funds. I note 
that the information supplied by Mr O in relation to the way he obtained the money only 
appears to have been provided to Aviva in February 2021  quite some time after the initial 
claim was made. So, whilst Mr O has supplied different invoices and receipts which he says 
demonstrates that payments have been made for the rental, the details surrounding where 
the money originated from to make the payment remains unclear. 
Aviva has reimbursed Mr O for transactions shown on his bank statement which he says 
were transfers made to friends and family during this additional stay to pay for some of his 
expenses. It is important to note that there isnt any explanation of exactly what these bank 
transfers were to pay for. I think Aviva has been more than fair to make this payment without 
necessarily having the details of whether these payments were for costs covered under the 
enforced stay section of cover.
So, when taking everything into account, Im persuaded that, on balance, Aviva has acted 
fairly when considering Mr Os claim, based on the evidence that has been supplied so far 
for the additional accommodation costs. I dont require Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman