DRN-3121403
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed her bank accounts and havent 
provided a proper explanation for why it no longer wanted her as a customer. 
What happened
Mr J had personal and business accounts with Barclays. This decision will focus on the 
closure of Mrs Js personal accounts. 
In April 2020, Barclays reviewed Mrs Js accounts. Following its review, it decided to close 
Mrs Js accounts and wrote to her to let her know that her accounts were to be closed in 
June 2020 and that shed need to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Mr J complained to the bank. She said she was shocked to be told that Barclays were 
closing her accounts and pointed out that shed been a loyal customer of the bank for a 
number of years. And had always operated her account properly. Barclays said it hadnt 
done anything wrong and had made a commercial decision to close her accounts.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs J brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things. The investigator looked at what had happened, but she 
didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly. She said Barclays had been entitled to close the 
accounts and werent obliged to provide Mrs J with an explanation. So, she didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mrs J disagreed. She wants to know why Barclays closed her account. She suspects the 
bank closed her accounts to stop her applying for a business loan, which she says she had 
no intention of doing. Mrs Js explained that she had to go to a lot of trouble reorganising her 
finances due to Barclays actions. She wants the bank to apologise and reopen her accounts.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have said it made the commercial decision to close Mr Js accounts. And this 
service wont usually interfere with a banks commercial discretion. As the investigator 
explained, its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclayss gave Mrs J 60 days notice. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and 
circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with them, so, it was 
entitled to close the accounts as it has already done. I know Mrs J suspects Barclays closed 
her account to stop her applying for a business loan (which Mrs J wasnt intending to do). 
But Ive not seen any evidence to support this. And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Barclays didnt exercise its commercial discretion legitimately.
I know Mrs J wants to know the reason why Barclays decided to close her account, but the 
bank isnt obliged to share this with her. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to 
do so either as much as shed like to know. But I want to reassure Mrs J that Ive looked at 
all the information provided by her and Barclays, and there is nothing that would lead me to 
conclude Mrs J has been treated unfairly. 
In summary, I understand that Mrs J has been upset and inconvenienced by Barclays 
actions. But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think the bank has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman