DRN-4170470
The complaint
Mr F complains about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited, referred to as the 
business. 
Hes unhappy that the business wont refund his premiums after he stopped paying 
premiums and cancelled the whole of life policy (the policy). To put things right, hed like 
the business to pay him £500. 
What happened
Mr F contacted our service in December 2022, after hed spoken to the business about 
cancelling his policy, which hed taken out in June 2016 paying around £30 a month. It was 
an over 50s plan, taken out on a non-advised basis. 
Mr F thinks its unfair that the business wont refund some or all of the premiums paid upon 
cancellation. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Having considered Mr Fs rights, as set out in the policy terms and conditions  which 
the parties agreed to before going ahead  she cant say that the business has done 
anything wrong. 
oSection 4 of the policy terms and conditions, deals with the payment of 
premiums. Section 4.3 explains what happens if premiums are stopped:
We are entitled to cancel this policy if any premiums are not paid 
within 30 days of their due date. If we cancel this policy, the policy will 
end and no further premiums will be collected and the benefit will no 
longer be payable 
We will not refund any premiums already paid 
The only exception is in cases where the policy holder reaches the age of 90 years of 
age, in which case the policy becomes paid up. This means premiums are no longer 
payable, but the benefit will be paid in the event of a valid claim. 
A recording of the conversation, which took place during the sale of policy, shows 
that the nature and operation of the policy was explained to him.     
For the reasons set out above, the business didnt act outside of its agreement with 
Mr F when it declined to refund the premiums. 
Whilst other providers mightve taken a different (and more sympathetic) approach  
by refunding the premiums or making the policy paid up  the business hasnt done 
anything wrong by not doing so. The business is entitled to operate under its own 
terms and conditions. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
doesnt accept the outcome is fair or reasonable. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F says, Im not persuaded that 
the business behaved unreasonably by refusing to refund the premiums paid after Mr F 
cancelled his policy. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mr F has about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr F and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case  Im 
not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for 
me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened. 
Theres nothing within the key policy terms and conditions that would suggest that Mr F 
could obtain a refund of the premiums if he cancelled the policy  thats generally not how 
life cover works. 
Im satisfied that section 4.3 of the terms and conditions makes clear exactly what would 
happen if the premiums werent paid, within the due date. As the premiums werent paid, the 
business was entitled to cancel the policy as intended by Mr F.     
Im aware that theres an exception to the above rule, but Mr F would need to be 90 years of 
age before the policy could be made paid up so he wouldnt have to pay any more premiums 
and could still (subject to a valid claim) benefit from the sum assured being paid out. 
If Mr F didnt read through the terms and conditions, which hes likely to have agreed to 
before going ahead with the investment, its not something that I can blame the business for. 
Im also aware that Mr F, of his own volition, chose to cancel the policy  this wasnt 
something that he was advised to do by the business. 
Im also aware that Mr F feels the premiums are too expensive, and he has two other 
policies in the place, thats probably why he wanted to cancel the policy. But thats not 
something I can consider, given that this is more likely than not to have been a non-advised 
sale. But I also dont think thats what Mr F is complaining about. I only raise the issue to 
dismiss it. I understand that theres been some discussion about Mr F reducing the level of cover and 
thereby paying less by way of premiums in order to bring the cost down. But Mr F eventually 
decided to cancel the policy. Despite what he says, I cant say that the business overall 
treated him unreasonably.  
The above notwithstanding, Im satisfied that the nature and operation of the plan was made 
clear to Mr F. Therefore, Im unable to say that anything has come out of the blue. 
I appreciate what Mr F says about other businesses and their approach. But be that as it 
may, it doesnt mean that the business has done anything wrong by not doing something 
similar. The business isnt obliged to operate in the same way that another business might in 
these circumstances. A business is, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement, entitled to decide how it will run its business  its not something our service 
would get involved in.  
Overall, and on balance, Ive found that the business has operated reasonably. I appreciate 
Mr F will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and I 
realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his deep frustration and 
anguish, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr H what he wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman