DRN-3649499
The complaint
Mr L complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) locked him out of his account 
following a security upgrade. He says they delayed in finding a solution and expected him to 
pay interest on his loan account while he was locked out of his account. 
What happened
Mr L held a current account and loan account with RBS. Mr L moved abroad and he says, 
following changes made to RBSs security process, he couldnt access his accounts without 
a card reader. Mr L says he eventually received a card reader at his overseas address  but 
this took a significant amount of time to resolve while he was locked out of his account. Mr L 
says he called RBS to resolve issues with his accounts and was assured there were no 
outstanding payments. Mr L says he then received a letter from RBS to say his accounts had 
been closed, so he complained. RBS responded in January 2021 and said they issued a 
Default Notice to Mr L on 9 November 2020 as his loan account was in arrears so they 
explained his accounts would be closed in 60 days if he didnt come to a repayment 
arrangement to rectify the position. RBS said, due to the loan account remaining in an 
unsatisfactory position, Mr Ls accounts were closed in January 2021 as part of RBSs 
Collections process. 
RBS said, during a call on 30 November 2020 with their Collections department, Mr L 
explained his circumstances, but no repayment arrangement was agreed. RBS said they 
informed Mr L he would need to agree a repayment arrangement by 9 January 2021 and the 
consequences of not doing so. RBS said Mr L acknowledged this and agreed to call in the 
next few days to clear the balance  but this didnt happen. RBS said, no repayment 
arrangement was agreed and the interest and charges wouldve been discussed with him at 
the time. 
RBS said, theyd previously addressed Mr Ls complaint about not receiving the card reader 
to his overseas address. They said this complaint wasnt upheld as the address on file 
wasnt his overseas address so they wouldnt have known to send it there. RBS said the 
card reader was sent to Mr Ls UK address which was held on file at the time in March 2020. 
RBS said, as the account holder, its Mr Ls responsibility to update his address, which he 
did do in October 2020 and they were then able to issue a card reader which he received in 
November. RBS did apologise for any communication issues. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L. He thought RBS hadnt acted unfairly so he 
wouldnt be asking RBS to do anything further. Mr L disagreed so the matter has come to me 
for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr L will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Out of jurisdiction 
Were not free to consider every complaint a customer brings to us. We operate under a set 
of rules laid down by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, 
published by the Financial Conduct Authority and known as the DISP rules. These set out 
the extent of our powers, including the time limits that apply to our complaints. The rules say 
that, unless the business consents, or there are exceptional reasons to explain the delay, 
were unable to consider a complaint made more than six months after the date on which a 
business sent a complainant its final response. 
The relevant rule is DISP 2.8.2 R. This says we cant consider a complaint if the complainant 
refers it to us: 
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response.. .
unless 
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
Rwas a result of exceptional circumstances 
In relation to Mr Ls complaint about RBS not originally sending the card reader to his 
overseas address, RBS sent their final response to Mr L on 1 April 2020. I can see the 
response explains Mr L has six months to bring his complaint to our service if he remains 
unhappy. This means that Mr L would have had until 1 October 2020 to bring his complaint 
about the card reader. We received Mr Ls complaint in January 2021. This was around nine 
months after RBSs final response so Mr L brought his complaint to us outside of the 
required six-month time limit. I can see RBS have addressed this complaint in their response 
in January 2021, but they refer back to their original response and I cant see theyve 
changed their position from their original response. So, I cant say RBS have withdrawn their 
earlier complaint response. And, given RBS dont consent to our service investigating this 
part of the complaint, I cant consider the complaint about the card reader being sent as it 
was referred out of time. 
Arrears and account closures 
I understand Mr L says he was locked out of his account for almost 12 months due to an 
upgrade in security measures and it wasnt until October 2020 that he was told he needed to 
change his address to his overseas address where he was living at the time. Mr L says this 
enabled RBS to send him a card reader, but up until this point, he was unable to access his 
online banking. Mr L says this was the reason for his current account going into overdraft 
and his loan account falling into arrears. 
Ill start off by saying I think its absolutely right and proper for a bank to update or revise 
their systems with the aim of protecting their customers from fraud. Directives were issued in 
2018 with the aim of improving consumer protection to make payments safer and more 
secure. 
A card reader provides an extra layer of protection against online fraud, so I cant say RBS 
have acted unreasonably in making this available. RBS say customers can be asked to use 
a card reader from time to time to log-in but this isnt something new.  
I note Mr L says not having the card reader prevented him from accessing his account  and 
this in turn prevented him from making any payments to rectify the position with his 
accounts. The information Ive seen shows repayments were made up to and including May 
2020. Then from June to November no repayments are made. I understand Mr L says this was the period during which he couldnt access his account to manage his money. The 
information Ive seen shows payments for the loan were taken from Mr Ls current account 
by direct debit until June  and it appears this direct debit didnt go through due to there not 
being sufficient funds in Mr Ls current account. RBS say Mr L could still have accessed his 
account without the card reader through telephone banking, webchat and mobile banking. 
Ive looked at RBSs website and the section which refers to the card reader says If you 
dont have a card reader, you can still make payments and manage regular payments with 
the mobile app anytime, anywhere. So, while I acknowledge Mr Ls point, I dont believe not 
having the card reader wouldve prevented Mr L from repaying the arrears which had built up 
on his loan account. 
Ive also taken into account that the Default Notice was sent to Mr L in November 2020 
giving him 60 days to come to a repayment arrangement or rectify the position on his loan 
account. I dont think this was unreasonable as the information shows no repayments had 
been made on Mr Ls loan account since June. It was also in November that Mr L received 
the card reader so I think Mr L was still given a reasonable period to rectify the position on 
his loan account if he felt he needed the card reader to do this. The notes of Mr Ls call to 
RBS at the end of November show the call handler discussed the position with Mr Ls 
accounts and Mr L agreed to bring his current account into credit and clear the arrears on his 
loan account. I can see Mr L did then make a payment into his current account to bring it into 
credit. Mr L then makes a loan repayment the following month but this is one months 
repayment, and not a payment towards the arrears which had built up. I can see RBS then 
closed Mr Ls accounts in January 2021.
I note Mr L says, during the call with RBS, he was told there were no outstanding payments, 
but he then unexpectedly received letters to say his accounts were closed. I can see our 
investigator has asked RBS for this call recording but theyre unable to locate it. So, in the 
absence of this evidence, Ive considered the information I do have and both parties 
testimony. The note of the call says Mr L had only recently received the card reader so he 
was unable to make his repayments towards his loan and overdraft. The note says Mr L 
asked if he would be charged extra for going overdrawn and the call handler explained he 
would be exempt from any charges until he clears any arrears/excess. The note then says 
the call handler reminded Mr L he has until 9 January 2021 to come up with an arrangement 
otherwise his accounts would be closed. 
From the call note, it appears the call handler agreed to not apply any charges for Mr Ls 
current account being overdrawn. I havent seen any evidence that Mr L was told there were 
no arrears on his loan account or that there would be a hold on interest and charges on this 
account. So, while I note Mr L feels he shouldnt have to pay the arrears and interest while 
he says he was unable to access his account, I cant say it would be fair for RBS to waive 
this. The loan repayments are due under the loan agreement Mr L has with RBS and, even if 
Mr L didnt have access to his accounts without the card reader, these repayments would 
still be due. In addition to this, Ive also taken into consideration that Mr L, when he did 
eventually receive a card reader and had access to his account, made a payment into his 
current account. At this point, Mr L wouldve seen no direct debits had been paid out of his 
current account for his loan. So, Mr L had an opportunity here to pay the arrears. 
I do acknowledge Mr Ls frustration at not having a current account now and the impact on 
him should he decide to return to the UK. RBS say Mr L hadnt been using his current 
account regularly and I can see the terms and conditions do allow RBS to close a current 
account by giving 60 days notice  which they have in this case.  
Address changeI note Mr L says a lot of the issues relate back to RBSs failure to identify sooner that he 
would need to change his address on the system for the card reader to be sent to him. Mr L 
says he didnt initially inform RBS he moved abroad as he felt it was likely he would be 
returning. Mr L says he then became a permanent resident but was assured a card reader 
could still be sent to him without him needing to change his address on their system. I can 
see RBS say it was Mr Ls responsibility to change his address. The terms and conditions of 
Mr Ls account says, If your contact details change, you should tell us as soon as you can to 
ensure you receive our communications. RBS have provided system notes which show    
Mr L updated his address in October 2020  and this is when the card reader was sent out 
and received. I havent seen any evidence that Mr L was told a card reader would be sent 
out to his overseas address without him needing to update his address details. Even in 
RBSs complaint response in April 2020, they ask for details of Mr Ls overseas address to 
send out a card reader  and, from the information Ive seen, this wasnt provided until 
October. So, I cant say RBS have made an error here. 
Communication with Mr L 
RBS said, they understand Mr L contacted them to get an update on the situation with the 
card reader but didnt get a response. RBS said they couldnt locate Mr Ls emails or his 
conversations on Webchat. They said, they didnt however have any reason to dispute       
Mr Ls version of events and apologised for any inconvenience caused. And, I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
I understand Mr L will be disappointed, and I acknowledge his reasons for why he believes 
the issues have been caused by RBS. I wish to reassure Mr L Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman