DRN-2774465
The complaint
Mr B complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat was irresponsible to lend him 
money he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr B took out loans with Cashfloat as follows: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 02/09/2019 04/09/2019 3 £300.00 £142.50
2 12/09/2019 12/11/2019 2 £200.00 £147.95
3 31/12/2019 25/02/2020 4 £400.00 £176.45
Our adjudicator felt that he hadnt seen enough to say Cashfloat had provided loans 1 and 2 
unfairly, but he said loan 3 shouldnt have been lent given that the checks Cashfloat did 
showed that Mr B was having problems managing his money. He said Cashfloat saw that 
Mr B already had three open short term loans with other lenders and ought to have realised 
it was unlikely Mr B would be able to sustainably repay loan 3.
Our adjudicator set out the steps he said Cashfloat should take to put things right for Mr B. 
Cashfloat disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said:
loan 3 was really only Mr Bs second loan as he had cancelled loan 1 and returned 
the money without incurring any interest
he repaid all of his loans earlier than scheduled and didnt ever say he was in any 
financial difficulty 
his credit profile demonstrated that he was handling his money in a responsible and 
sustainable manner, demonstrated by his credit profile payment history and the 
reduction in his indebtedness between the loan taken on the 12th September and the 
one taken on the 31st December
Cashfloat asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Mr B told us that he had no further information to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator about loans 1 and 2. Ive looked at the 
information Cashfloat recorded for Mr B, including income and expenditure details from the 
time and the checks it carried out. 
I agree that there isnt enough to say Cashfloat shouldnt have provided these loans. 
And as Mr B hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
the first two loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them. 
But whilst it might also have looked like Mr B would be able to make the monthly repayments 
out of his disposable income for loan 3, that wasnt borne out by what Cashfloat saw in its 
credit checks. Looking at the information Cashfloat had gathered before agreeing loan 3, 
I think its fair to say that Cashfloat could see that Mr B had been relying significantly on 
short term loans, including payday loans, for a while. And Cashfloat could see from the credit checks it did that Mr B had at least three other short term high cost loans outstanding when 
he asked to borrow this loan from Cashfloat. 
This type of borrowing is intended to provide short term financial help in the event of 
temporary money problems. So I think the information Cashfloat had gathered about Mr Bs 
credit history shouldve made Cashfloat realise that it looked like Mr B was having problems 
managing his money. 
Ive carefully considered what Cashfloat has said about this. I accept that its checks showed 
a small reduction in overall debt over the period that Mr B had been borrowing from 
Cashfloat. I think the extra income Mr B seems to have had around the time he took out 
loan 2 possibly helped his financial situation. But, despite this, the fact that he was now 
taking out multiple other short term loans, and arranging new credit whilst still paying existing 
credit, suggested that hed become over-reliant on using this sort of borrowing to supplement 
his income. 
I think that the credit information it obtained should reasonably have led Cashfloat to the 
conclusion that the information Mr B had provided about his finances wasnt reliable and that 
it was likely that he was in financial difficulty. I dont think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to 
conclude that it was likely that Mr B would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way. 
Mr Bs repayment record on the first two loans doesnt mean he managed to pay these in a 
sustainable way. And the fact that Cashfloat declined a number of other loan applications 
made by Mr B doesn't mean that loan 3 was affordable and fairly loaned to him. For the 
reasons I've explained, I dont think Cashfloat shouldve granted this loan to Mr B and so 
I am upholding his complaint about loan 3.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest (and possibly 
charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair. 
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, 
he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a 
different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.Cashfloat should: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 3, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr B the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove from Mr Bs credit file any adverse entries for this loan put on by Cashfloat.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat to take the steps 
set out above to put things right for Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman