DRN-3407379
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain about We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) and their decision to 
invoice them for a settlement fee following a successful claim for mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) that was paid out in 2016. Mr W and Mrs W are also unhappy 
with WFACs decision to instruct a third-party debt collection agency.
What happened
In July 2016, Mr W and Mrs W instructed WFAC to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI against 
several lenders. This complaint relates to a PPI claim pursued against lender R taken out in 
Mrs Ws sole name.
WFAC submitted a claim to lender R in August 2016. But there appeared to be an issue with 
the validity of the letter of authority (LOA) signed, which meant lender R supplied several 
versions of the LOA over a period of months. But during this period, Mrs W received a refund 
of £1,958.59 which related directly to the claim.
WFAC say they werent notified of this refund until 14 September 2021, which is when they 
issued Mrs W with an invoice for their fee of £489.64. But Mrs W explained she hadnt 
received a recent refund from lender R, so asked WFAC to confirm the claim this refund 
referred to and when it was, or was likely to be, paid. WFAC requested this information from 
lender R but continued to ask Mrs W for payment. When this wasnt received by 26 October, 
WFAC referred the account and the invoice to a third-party debt collection agency, who Ill 
refer to as D. Mr W and Mrs W were unhappy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Mrs W didnt think WFAC were fair to invoice her for a fee on a claim that had been 
successful five years prior. Mrs W explained shed paid all WFACs outstanding fees relating 
to refunds provided by lender R in September 2016 and that she assumed these fees settled 
all the amounts she owed. And she didnt think WFAC acted reasonably when referred her 
debt to D when she was in communication with WFAC and requesting clarification on the 
refund the fee related to. She explained her interactions with D had been stressful and she 
was worried about the impact this had on her credit file. So, she wanted the outstanding fee 
to be waived and to receive no further contact from D or WFAC regarding it.
WFAC responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd submitted the claim that had led to 
the refund Mrs W received in 2016. So, they thought their fee was due. And they explained 
they hadnt been made aware of the claims success until November 2021 and so, didnt 
think they were responsible for the delay in invoicing Mrs W. Finally, they thought they were 
fair to pass the debt onto D as a fee remained outstanding despite Mrs W being asked to 
make payment. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr W and Mrs W remained unhappy with this response, so they referred their complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They were satisfied the refund Mrs 
W received resulted from the claim WFAC submitted. So, they thought WFAC were fair to 
invoice Mrs W for their fee. But they didnt think WFAC acted fairly when referring the 
account to D as Mrs W had requested clarification on the fee and our investigator thought 
this was a reasonable request. So, they thought WFAC should remove any additional fees 
charged by D for their involvement. And our investigator thought WFAC should pay Mrs W 
£250 to recognise the upset the situation had caused her as they thought WFAC shouldve 
invoice Mrs W sooner and prevent the situation that eventually arose.
WFAC didnt agree. They didnt think they had any way of knowing the claim had been 
successful until 14 September 2021, on the same day they issued Mrs W with their invoice. 
And they thought Mrs W had a responsibility under the terms of the agreement to notify them 
of any refund, which they didnt think she did. They also thought that, as Mrs W didnt pay 
the outstanding fee despite chasers via e-mail and text, were fair to refer the debt to D. So, 
they didnt think they should compensate Mrs W or remove Ds additional costs. 
Our investigator responded to WFACs response explaining why they didnt think these 
changed their initial view. But WFAC continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
how Ive considered the complaint. When considering whether the fee WFAC have charged 
is fair, I need to be satisfied they completed the work that led to the refund Mrs W received. 
Then, that the fee has been charged in line with the terms of the agreement and that WFAC 
have acted fairly and reasonably while relying on these terms. As well as this, Ive also 
thought about WFACs decision to refer Mrs Ws debt to D.
In this situation, its not in dispute that WFAC were authorised to pursue claims for mis-sold 
PPI against lender R on Mr W and Mrs Ws behalf. Nor is it in dispute that WFAC submitted 
the original letter of claim in 2016, that led to the refund Mrs W received. I think its 
reasonable for me to assume that without this submission, Mrs Ws claim wouldnt have 
been successful as it would never have been considered by lender R. Ive seen no evidence 
to show me Mr W and Mrs W liaised directly with lender R or made any indication they 
wanted to pursue the claim themselves. So, as I think the work WFAC completed led to Mrs 
Ws refund, I think WFAC are entitled to invoice Mrs W for their fee. And I can see the 
original fee of £489.64 falls in line with the fee structure set by the agreement. So, I think this 
amount is payable and I cant say it should be waived. 
But I dont think WFAC acted fairly when they referred Mrs Ws debt to D. Whether or not 
WFACs terms allowed them to pass Mrs Ws debt on, Id expect them to give Mrs W 
reasonable chance to understand and then pay the invoice. And Id only expect a debt to be 
referred it was clear Mrs W had no intention of paying the debt or has stopped 
communicating with them.
In this situation, WFAC referred Mrs Ws debt to D around six weeks after they issued their 
initial invoice. But during this time, Mrs W had contacted WFAC to express her confusion as 
shed not received a recent refund from lender R. And WFAC had agreed to confirm when 
the refund had been or was due to be paid. So, I wouldnt have expected any referral to be made until lender R had been responded. Yet WFAC referred Mrs Ws debt to D on the 
same day they wrote to lender R, which I dont think is fair.
I also dont think allowing Mrs W a period of six weeks to pay an invoice in full is fair, 
considering the refund was received by Mrs W five years previously. Our service expects 
businesses such as WFAC to act positively and sympathetically towards a customers 
financial situation. And I think it wouldve been reasonable to assume Mrs W had spent the 
refund and so, was unable to pay the outstanding invoice outright. So, I wouldve expected 
WFAC to explore affordable repayment plans with Mrs W before making a referral to D. And 
I cant see they did this. 
So, I dont think WFACs referral to D was fair. And Mrs W has confirmed receiving a letter 
from D was both worrying and upsetting, which I dont dispute. So, I think WFAC should 
address this and Ive considered what I think WFAC should do further down the decision.
Ive also thought about when WFAC shouldve reasonably invoiced Mrs W for their fee, as I 
think a period of five years is a significant amount of time. I note WFAC state they were only 
made aware of the refund on 14 September 2021. And theyve referred to the terms of the 
agreement, which states a customer has an obligation to make them aware if a refund is 
received. And they dont think Mrs W did this.
But I dont agree. I can see WFAC issued Mr W and Mrs W with their invoices for other 
upheld claims with lender R in September 2016. And this was around the same time that Mrs 
W received the PPI refund associated with this claim. I dont think it is reasonable to expect 
Mr W and Mrs W to understand which refund associated to which claim due to the number of 
refunds they received within a short period of time. As the appointed representative and 
claim expert, I think it was reasonable for Mr W and Mrs W to look to WFAC to confirm this.
So, when WFAC issued Mr W and Mrs W several invoices for fees in September 2016, all of 
which were paid in full, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr W and Mrs W to assume this 
covered all of WFACs fees. So, I dont think its fair for WFAC to rely on this term on this 
occasion.
And from WFACs system notes, I can see in February 2017, following a chaser WFAC sent 
to lender R regarding the claim, in January of that year, a note that says a document had 
been received from lender R. And in the note itself, it says, Creditor states please see 
attached before stating the word outcome and that the note maker had passed this to post 
to be worked accordingly.
WFAC say theyre unable to retrieve this document. And theyve suggested this 
correspondence from lender R couldve been a variety of things. But I disagree. I think, 
based on the wording of the system note, that its most likely lender R provided WFAC with a 
copy their offer letter at this point. The note clearly states it was from the creditor, in this 
case lender R. And it includes the word outcome, which I think its reasonable for me to 
assume is the refund Mrs W received. Ive looked through all WFACs system notes and 
where further information is requested from a lender, this is clearly states within the system 
notes. 
So, because of the above, I think its reasonable for me to assume its at this point WFAC 
shouldve invoiced Mrs W for their fee. And I think its likely if they had, Mrs W wouldve paid 
it in full as Mr W and Mrs W had for their other successful claims. Instead, WFAC failed to do 
this and I cant see they completed any work of value to the claim after this point. So, I think 
the delay in invoicing is the responsibility of WFAC. And this delay led to Mrs Ws confusion, 
which caused her to question the fee and from this, WFAC referred the fee to D. So, I think 
this delay and its resultant impact should also be considered when I think about what WFAC should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
When thinking about what I think WFAC should do to put things right, any award or direction 
I make is intended to place Mr W and Mrs W back in the position they wouldve been, had 
WFAC acted fairly.
In this situation, had WFAC acted fairly, they wouldve invoiced Mr W and Mrs W sooner for 
their fee. So, the fee would always have been payable and because of this, I cant say the 
fee of £489.64 should be waived.
But I do think, had WFAC invoiced Mrs W in 2017 as I think they shouldve done, its 
reasonable for me to assume Mr W and Mrs W wouldve had a reasonable awareness of the 
refund it related to and paid the fee. So, I dont think D wouldve become involved. Because 
of this, I think any fees D have applied to the original fee of £489.64 should be removed.
As well as this, Mrs W wouldnt have received correspondence from D and so, felt the worry 
and upset she was caused because of this. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs W to 
worry about the impact having a debt referred to D would have on her credit file. I also think 
it wouldve been shocking and upsetting for Mrs W to receive an invoice from WFAC out of 
the blue. And when she queried this with WFAC, I think this upset wouldve been made 
worse when WFAC agreed to confirm which refund it related to with lender R and, without 
warning, referred the debt to another company.
Our investigator recommended WFAC pay Mrs W £250 to compensate for the upset Ive 
referred to above. I think this payment is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve awarded 
had it not already been directed. So, I think WFAC should pay Mrs W £250 to recognise the 
worry and upset shes been caused.
I understand WFAC wont agree with this. And I recognise why theyve relied on the terms of 
their agreement and why they may feel as though my decision fails to take these into 
consideration. But I have thought about these terms at length. Crucially, our service can 
consider the terms of any agreement and whether these relying on these terms are fair. And 
I dont think WFAC were fair to do so on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about We Fight Any 
Claim Limited and direct them to take the following action:
Remove any additional fees applied to the outstanding invoice that relate to Ds 
involvement; and
Pay Mr W and Mrs W £250 to recognise the upset theyve been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman