DRN-2880415
The complaint
Miss V complains that TM Advances Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In early August 2019, Miss V took out a loan with TM Advances for £2,000. This was to be 
repaid over 35 months and had an APR of 180.8%. The total amount re-payable was 
therefore £6,615 with monthly repayments of £189.
Miss V says the repayments were unaffordable and that at the time of lending she had a 
debt management plan in place in addition to other debts. She also says it was wrong for 
TM Advances to have taken into account the finances of her partner (at the time), given the 
loan was in her sole name.
TM Advances says it completed an affordability assessment by determining Miss Vs income 
and expenditure at the time of the loan application. It said it also conducted two credit 
searches and verified Miss Vs income.
The investigator upheld the complaint; in summary they didnt think TM Advances had 
undertaken reasonable and proportionate checks to establish whether this loan was 
affordable for Miss V. They thought it was likely further checks would have identified that 
Miss V couldnt have sustainably repaid the borrowing. 
Miss V accepted this finding, but as TM Advances didnt agree the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
I let TM Advances know that I agreed it hadnt carried out proportionate affordability checks 
in the circumstances and I shared further details with TM Advances about what Miss Vs 
statements would have shown at the time. 
TM Advances said it had verified Miss Vs income and accepted her explanation in relation 
to her credit card default. It also said that Miss Vs statements dont show her partner at the 
time wasnt contributing financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations and guidance are included in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). TM Advances was entering a regulated credit 
agreement and it was required to take reasonable steps to be satisfied Miss V would be able 
to make repayments sustainably without having to resort to further finance.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. In 
general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. For 
example, their financial history, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, and any 
indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. The amount, type, length of borrowing and 
cost of credit they have applied for would also be considered. 
In light of this, I think the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way, the more thorough a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to have been. 
TM advances undertook credit checks at the time of the lending. One of these warned on the 
cover page that Miss V had a very high level of indebtedness, was very high risk, and that 
most applicants with her credit score would experience serious repayment problems if the 
application was accepted. It also showed she was behind on repayments for a loan and had 
a defaulted credit card. 
Given the terms of the loan and the adverse information shown on Miss Vs credit checks, I 
dont think it was reasonable for TM advances to have approved the loan at this point. This is 
because there were clear indicators that she was already struggling financially.
This doesnt mean TM Advances ought to have declined Miss Vs loan application at this 
point, and I accept its relevant when Miss V defaulted on her credit card. But I think further 
checks than it undertook would have been proportionate in the circumstances to satisfy its 
obligation to ensure the repayments were sustainable for Miss V.
We cant now know exactly what further checks by TM advances would have looked like, so 
Ive considered Miss Vs statements from the time as one possible way of verifying Miss Vs 
expenditure. Her statements showed additional indicators that she was struggling financially 
including:
Payments to payday loan companies
Evidence of money borrowed from family (including a monthly standing order for 
£100 with the reference Dad money owed)
Payments to Stepchange (a debt charity)
Miss V paying the full £500 rent plus bills by herself with no corresponding incoming 
payments (suggesting she wasnt splitting her bills with a partner as indicated on her 
income and expenditure assessment)
Unarranged overdraft fees
I appreciate TM Advances say that these dont prove that Miss Vs partner (at the time) 
wasnt contributing to her bills, but I think the important point here is that her statements are 
inconsistent with the information the loan application was based on. And Im not aware of 
any evidence that TM Advances might have been able to consider at the time to show 
Miss V was splitting her bills given shes now told us that the relationship ended without her 
ex-partner ever repaying her. 
I think Miss Vs statements show that at the time of the lending she was struggling to meet 
her existing financial commitments and that she was relying on borrowing for her day to day 
expenditure. 
It follows that if TM Advances had completed proportionate checks, it would have idntified 
that the loan repayments would not be sustainable for Miss V and she was unlikely to be 
able to repay it without borrowing further or suffering other adverse financial consequences. 
So Im satisfied that TM Advances ought to have identified at the time that this lending would 
be unaffordable for Miss V.Putting things right
Its reasonable for Miss V to repay the capital amount that she borrowed as she has had the 
benefit of that money. But I dont think its fair and reasonable for Miss V to have to pay 
interest and charges on this loan, or for her credit file to be adversely affected as a result of 
this loan having been provided.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Vs complaint and require TM Advances Limited do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Miss V 
made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Miss Vs loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then TM Advances Limited should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen to the date of settlement*. 
If reworking Miss Vs loan account results in there being an outstanding capital 
balance TM Advances Limited should work to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with her. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Vs credit file in relation to the 
loan. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest, it should 
give Miss V a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman