DRN-3163433
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy. 
Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. He was involved in an accident in April 2021. 
His car was collected for repair a few days later but it took Avivas repairers nearly five 
months to fully repair and return the car to him. In between times, he returned the car to the 
repairer on three occasions because the repairs hadnt been done properly. The repairs 
were eventually completed by a different garage. 
Mr R complained about the delay and the service he received. He said he had to constantly 
chase Aviva to progress the repairs and sort out the courtesy car. The mileage on his car 
had increased unnecessarily and the garage had used his fuel to return the car to him on 
each occasion. Mr R also said he was planning to sell his car before the accident to make 
his financial situation easier. And the delay by Aviva meant hed paid more in tax and on the 
finance for his car than he should have done. He also thought his car had depreciated in 
value due to the delay. He said the whole situation had caused a lot of stress for him and his 
family. 
Aviva upheld his complaint. It apologised for the service hed received and offered him £400 
compensation. It also arranged for his car to be serviced as a gesture of goodwill. Mr R 
wasnt happy with this offer so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to take any further action as he thought the £400 it 
had paid Mr R was fair and reasonable. As Mr R disagrees with our investigators view, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr R was always likely to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience with a claim of 
this nature. Having his car taken away to be repaired was always going to cause some 
disruption. But, theres no dispute that the repairs to his car took a lot longer than was 
necessary. Aviva accepts the standard of workmanship was poor and that there was a need 
to apologise and pay compensation for the delays and poor service. So, the question here is 
whether or not Aviva has done enough to put matters right. And, on balance, I think it has. 
Let me explain why. 
In situations like this, Id expect Aviva to put Mr R back in the position he would have been 
in, or as close to that as possible, had the mistakes or poor service not happened. Aviva 
accepts it was poor workmanship by the garage Mr Rs car was sent to that caused the 
delays. Had things gone the way they should, Mr R would have got his car back much more 
quickly, possibly within weeks rather than months. 
So, what was the impact of the delays? Mr R says he was planning to sell his car at the time 
of the accident and he sold it soon after it was returned to him. He said the delays in 
repairing the car meant its value depreciated. The mileage on the car increased more than it 
should have done, and it missed the anniversary of its service. But Mr R hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence of that depreciation in value. I think its generally accepted that a cars 
value reduces after an accident. Even a well-repaired car isnt as attractive to buyers as it 
would have been previously. And without further evidence of a loss in value, I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Aviva to reimburse Mr R for any potential loss of value solely due to the 
delays.
Mr R also says that, without the delays, he would have been able to sell his car sooner, thus 
saving money on his finance. And as he didnt replace the car when he sold it, he would 
have saved money on tax as well. Aviva said it wasnt liable for these costs and I agree that 
these costs arent covered under the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy. I think it would 
be unfair to conclude that Aviva should reimburse Mr R for the cost of the tax and finance 
payments he made solely because he might have been able to sell his car sooner. But Mr R 
said he sold his car to make his financial situation easier and I think the delays by Aviva 
meant he lost the opportunity to do that earlier. So, I think Aviva should take responsibility for 
that lost opportunity.
Theres no doubt the delays by Aviva had a considerable impact on Mr R and caused a 
significant amount of inconvenience and disruption. Hes talked about the stress and 
sleepless nights this caused himself and his family. And also the efforts he had to go to over 
several months to chase for progress on the repairs and retain the courtesy car. Ive also 
taken account of the extra mileage done by the car, and the extra fuel that was used, on 
each occasion it was returned to him. 
Avivas response to the complaint was to accept and apologise for the delays and poor 
service provided. It accepted there were significant issues with the repairs that had been 
done. And difficulties and delays in getting the car repaired to an acceptable standard. It 
offered to pay Mr R £400. It also apologised for the service hed received. And it paid for 
Mr Rs car to be serviced and allowed him to keep the courtesy car for a couple of weeks 
after it had been repaired. 
So, taking all of this together, I think it was right that Aviva compensate Mr R for the poor 
service it provided, and the lost opportunity Mr R had to sell his car sooner than he was able 
to. But, on balance, I think the £400 it paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
recognise Mr R doesnt think that was enough compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused but, in light of the above, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask 
Aviva to do anything differently. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has paid Mr R £400 to settle the complaint and I think that amount 
is fair in all the circumstances. It should pay that amount to Mr R if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman