The complaint
Miss P complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality. She 
wants the costs of repairs to be refunded. 
What happened
Miss P is represented in this complaint by Mr K. But for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to 
her.
Miss P tells us she acquired the vehicle in December 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as I. 
She says she first reported a fault with the bonnet which was repaired by I in January 2019. 
On 1 April 2019 she reports the Engine Management Light (EML) illuminated and the 
dashboard warning showed transmission malfunction. A diagnostic test was performed by 
a business Ill call W.
She said the vehicle was later subject to a further diagnostic test and inspection on 24 April 
and it was found that it required a new gearbox. Miss P immediately made a complaint to 
MotoNovo. And it issued a final response letter rejecting her complaint on 17 June. Miss P 
reports that the vehicle was eventually repaired by I between 16 and 29 November 2019.
MotoNovo told us the vehicle has been independently inspected by a company Ill refer to as 
A. And that A had said that any faults identified wouldnt have been present at the point of 
supply.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the vehicle 
was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. And she recommended that Miss P should 
be refunded the costs of repair.
MotoNovo didnt agree with this outcome. It said As report had confirmed the faults werent 
present at the point of supply. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Miss P has experienced some problems with this vehicle. And I can 
understand that shed be disappointed with its performance and to be facing a large bill for 
repairs.
DRN-1586620Miss Ps hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. Relevant legislation here includes the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA). 
Briefly summarised this says that in order to conform to contract goods must be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory taking into account issues which 
include such aspects as age of goods, previous use and durability.
Miss P acquired the vehicle in December 2018. It was about four years old and had 
previously covered 55,579 miles. Miss P first reported a fault with the bonnet in January 
2019. But this was repaired by I and as far as Im aware the issue was resolved. 
She complained about transmission issues on 1 April 2019. And Ive seen an invoice from W 
which ran a diagnostic test. It reported there was a Transmission /Oil temperature sensor 
malfunction.
Subsequently the vehicle was examined on 15 and 24 April 2019, on behalf of I, by a 
company Ill call M, an approved repair agent of the vehicles a manufacturer. On the first 
visit a software update was applied. 
On the latter date M identified that the vehicle required a replacement gearbox.
On 12 June 2019, the vehicle was subject of a further inspection this time a company Ill call 
A. It identified a stored fault code which was in line with that reported by W. And indicated 
that the transmission/ oil temperature sensor 1 has malfunction.
The report found that the EML was illuminated and remained so during a 15 mile road test. It 
also reported a slight whine from the gearbox on overrun. 
A went on to conclude that:
The engine management light is illuminated displaying numerous fault codes relating to 
gearbox and also engine malfunction and distance collision system. However, we would 
consider that on the balance of probability the vehicle would not have had these faults at 
finance inception.
Its not in dispute that evidence in the form of an EML warning about transmission problems 
arose within six months of the vehicle being supplied to Miss P. This led to experts 
diagnosing that a new gearbox was required. The CRA states that if goods dont conform to 
contract within the first six months after supply its presumed they werent of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply unless it shown otherwise. 
MotoNovo is of the view that As report shows the faults werent present or developing at the 
point of supply. I take a different view and Ill explain why.
The vehicle was four years old with an odometer reading of 55,579 miles at the time of 
supply. This is slightly above average but not extraordinarily so. The cash price of the 
vehicle was just over £14,000. Whilst a reasonable person would expect the vehicle to 
display some elements of wear and tear I doubt if they would think it reasonable to expect it 
to require a replacement gearbox within 6,000 miles of supply. Not only that but the vehicle 
had displayed warnings about the transmission problems as early as 1 April with a 
diagnostic report showing a malfunction on the transmission / oil temperature sensor.I've also referred earlier to other problems within the first month after supply. So this was 
plainly a vehicle which had more than its share of issues soon after being acquired by Miss 
P.
Durability is an aspect of satisfactory quality. In the absence of any evidence of misuse I find 
on a balance of probabilities that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.  It lacked a reasonable degree of durability. Accordingly, Im upholding this 
complaint.
As Miss P had the vehicle repaired its fair and reasonable she should have the costs of that 
repair and associated expenses refunded. 
Putting things right
MotoNovo should now take the following action:
1. Upon proof of payment by Miss P refund £1,180.00 for the cost of the repairs to the
transmission;
2. Refund £22.80 for the diagnostic report provided by W;
3. Upon proof of payment by Miss P refund £162.00 for the diagnostic report
provided by M;
4. Refund 1 x monthly instalment of £291.50 for the time Miss P has been without her
car.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm upholding this complaint.
I require FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance to take the  action set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman