DRN-2120280
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) provided her with a high-
cost short-term credit instalment loan. She says the loan was unaffordable and Lending 
Stream unfairly induced her into taking the loan by sending her a text message in the initial 
stages of the pandemic. Finally, shes unhappy with Lending Streams lack of action once 
she tried to get into contact to explain she was experiencing difficulty.  
What happened
This complaint centres around the provision of a high-cost short-term credit instalment loan 
for £500, in March 2020. One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ws complaint and didnt 
think Lending Stream had treated her unfairly. So she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including the 
key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive referred to this 
when considering Miss Ws case. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision in a bit more detail.
The text message Miss W received
Miss W provided us with a copy of a text message she received in March 2020. She says its 
receiving this message which tempted her into applying for this loan at a difficult time. 
Ive looked at the message. However, Im satisfied that it wasnt from Lending Stream. The 
message was sent by a third-party credit broker, which is independent from Lending Stream. 
As this is the case and while I appreciate Miss W is unhappy at having been sent this 
message, I cant hold Lending Stream responsible for something it wasnt responsible for 
sending. If Miss W remains unhappy with the text message and wishes to take things further, 
she needs to direct her concerns to the third-party credit broker in the first instance. 
Was Lending Streams decision to provide Miss W with a loan for £500 unreasonable? 
Lending Stream provided Miss W with a single loan which was due to be repaid in 6 monthly 
instalments. From what Ive seen, Lending Stream asked Miss W to confirm her monthly 
income and expenditure. The information recorded suggests the loan repayments were 
comfortably affordable. 
Miss W says the information Lending Stream based its decision on didnt accurately reflect 
her actual financial position. But I have to think about what Miss W has said in the context of 
this being an application for first loan involving a relatively small amount. And, in these 
circumstances, I dont think that it would have been proportionate for Lending Stream to 
have carried out the degree of verification Miss W has suggested. In my view, there wasnt 
anything immediately obvious in the information provided that Lending Stream had, which 
meant it shouldve asked Miss W to prove supporting evidence before providing a first loan 
for this amount. 
So bearing in mind the circumstances, I think that Lending Stream was reasonably entitled to 
rely on the information provided and therefore its decision to lend wasnt unreasonable.
Lending Streams communication with Miss W after the onset of the pandemic
I want to start by saying Im sorry to see Miss W has been struggling financially and that 
shes not been able to make her payments. Ive reviewed the records of her attempts to 
contact Lending Stream. As our adjudicator explained, its clear there were periods when 
Lending Stream could have communicated better. But I have to consider this in the overall 
context that these delays because of the unprecedented circumstances at the time.
Equally, I also think itd be unfair to say Lending Stream has completely failed to 
acknowledge Miss Ws financial position. The copies of the communications Ive seen shows 
Lending Stream offered to arrange a payment plan on more than one occasion. I understand 
this offer remains available to Miss W should she provide the necessary income and 
expenditure information required to establish what payments shes able to make. 
So Id encourage Miss W to provide Lending Stream with this information - especially as the 
temporary measures in light of the pandemic  such as payment holidays - are due to end 
soon. Notwithstanding this, Id like to take this opportunity to remind Lending Stream of its 
continuing obligation to exercise forbearance in the event it chooses to collect payments 
from Miss W, even though I dont think it has acted unfairly thus far.
Ive seen Miss Ws comments regarding other complaints about Lending Stream, regulatory 
action and where the lender is based. But my role here is limited to considering whether 
Lending Stream treated Miss W unfairly, given whats gone on in the course of her dealings 
with it. I appreciate Miss Ws strong feelings on this matter. But having looked at everything 
and thought about what shes said, I dont think Lending Stream treated Miss W unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman