DRN-3445894
The complaint
A company, E, complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) unfairly declined a claim under their business protection insurance policy. 
The complaint is brought by Mr M on Es behalf.
What happened
E has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Mr M made a claim on that policy 
to cover Es losses arising out of the closure of the business from March 2020 due to the 
national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid 19.
NFU declined the claim because it said E didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming for. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the losses being claimed were through no fault of the business, 
that they were forced to close due to Government requirement and that the policy should 
cover E for an eventuality like this one. 
Our investigator considered Es complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation E found itself in. 
Mr M doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown has had on E. But for 
the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The type of cover E is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The starting
point is to consider the specific policy E took out. As such Ive considered every aspect of 
the policy E holds with NFU to determine whether there are any sections that would require 
NFU to meet the claim like the one E is making.
Mr M has told us that E wasnt able to operate due to the government-imposed lockdown. 
The policy provides cover for several things, including human diseases, public emergency, 
prevention of access and damage. Ive considered each of them below.
Human Diseases
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. 
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that would respond is the extension in
relation to human diseases. That section covers disruption to business activities stemming 
from the occurrence of any of the following diseases at the PREMISES which results in 
closure or restriction in use of the PREMISES on the order or advice of a competent 
authority:
Acute Encephalitis, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Acute Poliomyelitis, Paratyphoid Fever,
Anthrax, Plague, Cholera, Rabies, Diphtheria, Rubella, Dysentery, Scarlet Fever,
Legionellosis, Smallpox, Legionnaires Disease, Tetanus, Leptospirosis, Tuberculosis,
Malaria, Typhoid Fever, Measles, Viral Hepatitis, Meningococcal Infection, Whooping
Cough, Mumps, Yellow Fever 
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy
provides E, with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something NFU might 
have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes anything. 
Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present pandemic. 
These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated on 
a Government defined list. Es policy sets out a list of the illnesses which are covered by the 
policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. I think the purpose and effect of 
the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses. There are many 
potential illnesses that the policy does not cover. And although Ive considered that the 
policy doesnt specifically exclude Covid-19, I dont think it can or should fairly be read as 
covering any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
Public Emergency
This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a competent Public 
Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property occurring within the vicinity 
of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the PREMISES for a 
period greater than four consecutive hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the suspected 
or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels E closed as a result of a government-imposed act. But I agree 
with NFU that the exclusion that sits directly beneath the term applies. Covid-19 was an 
infectious or contagious disease, which isnt defined within the policy terms in the same way 
as the illnesses set out within the human diseases section are.  This finding was supported 
by the judgment in the recent FCA test case on 15 September 2020 in which Lord Justice 
Flaux said:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in the 21 and 
26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local authority, and was as a 
result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an infectious disease. Accordingly, the 
[exclusion] applies and there is no cover under [this policy] wording in respect of the closure 
of or restriction in the use of the premises.
That section of the judgment wasnt subject to appeal, so the findings set out within it still 
stand. As such, I dont think cover is available.
Prevention of Access and DamageI know E hasnt complained about this section of the policy but for the sake of completeness 
Ive also thought about it nonetheless. I dont think it applies. This section states that NFU 
will pay for loss of income arising out of DAMAGE to PROPERTY in the vicinity of the 
PREMISES arising from an INSURED PERIL which hinders or prevents access to the 
PREMISES.
DAMAGE is defined as Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage. Such damage 
needs to arise from an insured peril which hinders or prevents access to the insured 
premises. For the reasons set out above, I cant fairly say that Covid-19 falls into any of the 
insured perils and theres nothing in the definition of DAMAGE itself that would extend to 
covering damage caused to the business by way of an illness or disease such as Covid-19, 
or even a government-imposed act. Rather it refers to physical damage in different shapes 
and forms.
Finally, I know E feels that cover should be offered because the policy doesnt specifically 
exclude pandemics. I dont think that NFU was required to specifically exclude an outbreak 
of Covid-19 in order for cover to be available nor where they required to draft a pandemic 
exclusion into the policy if it wanted to specifically exclude this. The policy sets out a number 
of different circumstances in which E would be covered for business interruption. Its true 
that claims arising out of Covid-19 dont attract cover, but this doesnt mean that NFU was 
required to specifically exclude cover for this. I think the policy goes far enough to limit cover 
for what NFU was prepared to cover in the circumstances of Es claim, and that NFU 
interpreted those terms fairly when turning down its claim.
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think NFU acted unfairly by turning down
Es claim for cover. I know Mr M feels Es policy should have covered E for the position it 
finds itself in but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why it doesnt offer 
cover in the circumstances of this claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Es complaint against The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
E to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman