DRN-3670501
The complaint
Ms W says Lloyds Bank PLC closed her current account and credit card with no notice and 
unfairly defaulted the credit card debt permanently damaging her credit rating.
What happened
Ms W was declared bankrupt in another country on 16 April 2021. When Lloyds was notified 
it closed her bank account and her credit card. It first blocked the bank account as it had a 
small debit balance. It applied a default on the credit card account as it had a larger 
outstanding balance.
Lloyds accepts it should have given Ms W the chance to repay her credit card debt in full 
before closing and defaulting the account. It paid her £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. It gave Ms W 60 days from the date of the final response letter to 
repay the debt explaining if she didnt the default would remain. It also refunded all fees 
applied after 16 April 2021. It refunded £31.23 to Ms Ws bank account giving it a nil balance 
and sent £17.33 that Ms W was entitled to back to her. 
Ms W says Lloyds should have frozen her accounts as it says it does in such circumstances 
on its website, not closed them. The overseas bankruptcy has no legal bearing on her UK 
finances, no other company has closed her account(s). She was happy to repay the debt - 
Lloyds was concerned she may have financial difficulties, but also said she must repay the 
debt in full in 60 days rather than set up a payment plan. This seems to her contradictory 
and unreasonable. 
Ms W wants Lloyds to re-open her credit card account so she can make monthly repayments 
to clear the debt. She wants the adverse information removing from her credit file to repair 
her credit rating and evidence from Lloyds that it had the right it close her account when her 
bankruptcy happened in a different country. She asks for more appropriate compensation for 
the stress caused, particularly as she was recovering from a life-threatening illness.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ws complaint. Across three communications she 
explained why she found Lloyds actions, and response to Ms Ws complaint, to be fair. She 
said the bank followed its bankruptcy policy and processes, and had acknowledged it should 
have given notice. It takes the same action if a bankruptcy is in the UK or overseas, except 
there is no claim if the bankruptcy is overseas. The investigator felt its remedial actions of 
giving a further 60 days to repay the debt and then removing the default if it was repaid in 
full, settling the current account, and refunding fees was fair, as was the £250 compensation. 
She explained the bank has the right to close accounts if it believes there is a risk of an 
account holder not repaying what they owe. She had not been able to find anywhere on 
Lloyds website that says it will freeze accounts in cases like this, and nor had the bank. And 
Lloyds policy is not to offer payment plans for customers who have been declared bankrupt. 
Unhappy with this analysis Ms W asked for an ombudsmans review. She reiterated her 
arguments as to why Lloyds actions were wrong, and said whilst she has never seen the 
policy Lloyds refers to it must have some flexibility meaning there were other options that 
would not have permanently damaged her UK credit record. Her finances here were not 
affected by the overseas bankruptcy and she has met all her financial obligations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that Lloyds got some things wrong. It did not give Ms W notice of closure 
and the opportunity to repay her credit card debt before defaulting that account. However 
when we find a business has made an error we look to make sure it has put the customer 
back in the position theyd be in had the mistake not occurred. I find by giving Ms W 60 days 
from 3 June 2021 to settle her account and thus repair her credit record it did this. But she 
did not make payment, so the default remains. And I note from the call records between     
Ms W and the bank on 18 May 2021 that she told Lloyds she had the money to pay the 
credit card balance.  
Ms W argues she should have been offered a payment plan, but Lloyds has explained it 
does not offer plans in bankruptcy cases. I know Ms W feels in her particular circumstances 
there should have been some flexibility, but we do not have the power to instruct a bank to 
change its policies. And it is for this reason I cannot agree with another of Ms Ws points. 
She feels strongly the overseas bankruptcy was not relevant to her UK situation, but Lloyds 
has explained its bankruptcy policy applies irrespective of where the bankruptcy is 
registered. 
Section B9 of the credit card terms and conditions Ms W agreed to reads We may close 
your account and require immediate repayment of everything you owe under this agreement 
if you die, are made bankrupt  so I find Lloyds acted in line with the terms of their 
agreement in this regard.
As Ms W did not submit evidence of Lloyds online commitment to only freeze accounts as 
she referenced I cant comment further on this. 
It follows I wont be telling Lloyds to re-instate Ms Ws credit card account or remove the 
default. I have thought about the stress Ms W clearly experienced by not receiving notice of 
closure and I am sorry this happened whilst she was seriously ill. But in the round, I find the 
£250 Lloyds paid to recognise the impact of its error to be fair. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman