DRN-2193785
The complaint
Mrs F complains about We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) and the fees they are 
charging her for claims she doesnt feel they were authorised to pursue.
What happened
Mrs F instructed WFAC to pursue a number of claims against a several lenders for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) in 2016. And some of these were successful at the 
time.
But lender B responded in 2016 saying Mrs F had no valid PPI policies. So, WFAC marked 
this claim as unsuccessful and took no further action at that time. In 2019, Lender B wrote to 
Mrs F and WFAC, explain theyd reviewed their initial responses to claims internally. Having 
done so, theyd found Mrs F had been mis-sold PPI and provided her with a gross refund of 
£9567.40, the amount before tax. So, WFAC invoiced Mrs F for their success fees, which 
amounted to £2,009.14.
Mrs F wasnt happy with this, so she raised a complaint. She felt she hadnt authorised 
WFAC to pursue her claims with lender B and other lenders, so she didnt think it was fair for 
them to invoice her for a success fee. Because of this, she wanted the outstanding invoice to 
be waived.
WFAC didnt agree. They explained Mrs F had signed a letter of authority (LOA) in 2016, 
which they felt allowed them to pursue claims with lender B on her behalf. And they had 
raised these claims. They felt lender B had made a mistake when not upholding the claims in 
2016, which explained why it had taken so long for Mrs F to receive the refund she was 
entitled to. But, WFAC felt the refund had resulted directly from the claims they made, so 
theyd acted fairly when charging Mrs F a success fee in line with the conditions of the 
agreement. Because of this, they didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mrs F 
remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought WFAC did have 
authority to pursue claims against lender B on Mrs Fs behalf. And, although he recognised 
the length of time since WFAC had submitted the initial claims, he thought the delay wasnt 
the fault of WFACs. And, as he thought the successful PPI refund had arisen from the 
claims WFAC submitted, he thought WFAC had acted fairly when invoicing Mrs F for their 
success fee. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mrs F didnt agree with 
this but provided no further comments. So, the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
First, I want to recognise Mrs Fs cause for concern. I understand there was a considerable 
length of time between WFAC submitting the claims to lender B and Mrs F receiving a 
successful refund. So, I can appreciate why shed question WFAC invoicing her for a 
significant success fee when she hadnt heard from them for a significant period of time. But 
for me to say they acted unfairly when doing so, Id have to be satisfied they had no authority 
to submit the claim in the first place or that the work they completed had no relevance to the 
PPI refunds Mrs F received. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen Mrs F signed a LOA in 2016 which authorised WFAC to submit claims against 
Lender B on her behalf. I appreciate these documents were signed several years ago, so 
Mrs F may not remember doing so. But Ive seen they were signed at the same time as other 
LOAs for claims against separate lenders. And Im aware some of these claims were 
successful, with Mrs F paying WFAC their success fee. So, Im satisfied WFAC were 
authorised to submit claims to lender B and did nothing wrong when doing so.
But Ive also considered whether WFAC were fair to charge Mrs F success fees in 2019.
Ive seen the final response letter lender B sent to both Mrs F and WFAC in 2019. This letter 
said You previously contacted We Fight Any Claim to act on your behalf regarding Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) and a request was submitted asking us to check our records for 
any PPI policies in your name. As part of our continuous improvement activity within PPI, we 
have identified that in a small proportion of enquiries, we gave inaccurate responses. I am 
sorry to inform you this meant that you received an incorrect response for your {account} 
advising we were unable to find a PPI policy. Following a further review, I have now 
identified that there was a PPI policy on this account and raised a complaint on your behalf.
I think this shows WFAC did submit a claim on behalf Mrs F. And that lender B still 
considered WFAC to be acting on behalf of Mrs F as they were sent a copy of the response. 
It also shows lender B admitting their response to the original claim was incorrect. I think its 
reasonable to assume that, had lender B responded correctly, Mrs F wouldve received a 
successful PPI refund around the time the original claims were submitted in 2016 and 
WFACs success wouldve been due.
But even so, Ive considered whether WFAC couldve done more around that time. And had 
lender B agreed there was PPI attached to Mrs Fs accounts she held with them, I wouldve 
expected WFAC to escalate this further. But, crucially, lender B denied there was any PPI 
policy at all. So, I dont think WFAC acted unfairly when deeming the claims unsuccessful 
and taking no further action at that. Because of this, I dont think WFAC couldve done 
anything more to secure a PPI refund for Mrs F in 2016. 
Ive seen no evidence that the agreement Mrs F signed with WFAC was cancelled during the 
time between the claims being submitted in 2016 and the claims being successful in 2019, 
following lender Bs internal review. So, I think the agreement was still outstanding when the 
claims were successful. And Im satisfied lender Bs review was based on WFACs original 
submission. So, without that submission, I dont think Mrs F wouldve received a PPI refund 
at all. Because of this, I think WFAC have acted reasonably when invoicing Mrs F for their 
success fee. And this success fee falls in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. So, I dont think WFAC have acted unfairly, and I dont think they need to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint about We Fight Any Claim 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman