DRN-3566440
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to not 
meet all of their claim for accidental damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D bought a home insurance policy with Admiral which included accidental 
damage cover. 
Mr D contacted Admiral to make a claim. He said screws attaching kitchen cupboards to the 
wall had snapped. As a result, kitchen cupboards had come away from the wall and 
damaged worktops and flooring in their kitchen. 
Admiral said it would meet the claim for accidental damage to the worktops and floor in the 
kitchen. But it said it wouldnt meet the claim for the damaged kitchen cupboards as the 
damage to them wasnt caused accidentally. It said it was caused either by poor 
workmanship or through wear and tear. Admiral explained that the policy excludes cover for 
damage caused in these circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs D thought this was unfair and believed Admiral should include the cupboards in 
the claim as the damage happened under the same event. They were unhappy that an 
approved contractor told them they couldnt guarantee repair works and so they didnt go 
ahead with the claim. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral had 
acted reasonably.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and want an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like many home insurance policies, Admiral provides the option for accidental damage 
cover as an insured peril; being an unforeseen, sudden event. And so it doesnt provide 
cover for every eventuality. This isnt unusual. 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy with Admiral says it excludes cover for the following:
6. Faulty design - Any loss or damage caused by faulty design, plan, specification, 
materials or workmanship.
10. Gradual causes  any loss or damage caused by anything that happens 
gradually including wear and tear, wet and dry rot, damage due to exposure to 
sunlight or atmospheric conditions, due to settlement, or any due to mildew, rust or 
corrosion.
As Mr D explained that the cause of the damage to the cupboards was due to a snapped 
screw, I think Admirals decision to reject a claim for damage to the cupboards was fair and 
in line with the policy. 
I understand Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the information provided by an approved 
contractor about the works not being guaranteed. 
In Admirals response to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, it said that Mr and Mrs D were 
dissatisfied with the approved contractor being unable to confirm the costs of the repairs 
when they visited. This is therefore the complaint Admiral responded to. 
Admiral confirmed that the process explained to Mr and Mrs D was correct. Admiral would 
await the contractors report in order to validate the costs and settle the claim. 
I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably here. And any repairs carried out by an insurer 
should be effective and long lasting. It is standard within the insurance industry that works 
carried out under a claim by an approved contractor of the insurer carry a guarantee. 
So I think Admirals decision not to include the replacement or repair of the damaged kitchen 
cupboards under the claim was fair. This is because the cause of damage is excluded from 
cover under the policy. 
I understand Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed. But this means Im not asking Admiral to do 
any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman