DRN-4342532
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Insurance Claims Centre UK Ltd (ICC UK) have dealt with a 
claim on her home insurance policy.  
What happened
A water pipe in Mrs Ms house burst causing damage to her home, a few days later a second 
leak also caused damage. Mrs M then appointed ICC UK, who are loss assessors, to handle 
the claim on her home insurance policy on her behalf. The role of the loss assessor is to 
handled Mrs Ms claim on her behalf. This will involve dealing with the claim and assessing 
what repairs are needed, the loss assessor then requests payment for the necessary work 
from the insurer. The insurer reviewed the claim and accepted it. ICC UK therefore arranged 
for the property to be inspected and the repair work carried out. To do this, it accepted 
different payments from the insurer throughout the repair work.  
Before the final payments had been made by the insurer Mrs M complained. She was 
unhappy with the work by ICC UK and referred her complaint here. Mrs M said the claim was 
taking too long and she wasnt happy with the living conditions that she had to live in while 
the claim was dealt with. Mrs M also complained about the conduct of ICC UK and said she 
wasnt getting a response from it. She also said shed been told by the workmen that they 
wouldnt do anymore work as the money from her insurer hadnt come through. 
We let ICC UK know about Mrs Ms complaint. After eight weeks, as a final response letter 
wasnt issued, Mrs M asked us to investigate her complaint. ICC UK said it responded to Mrs 
Ms concerns but didnt record it as a complaint as it hadnt thought it was one. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found there 
had been delays in progressing the claim, and while some disruption is expected during 
repairs, that this hadnt been minimalised as well as it could. She also found that Mrs Ms 
patio had paint splashed on it from where the workmen had cleaned their paint brushes, so 
recommended ICC UK cleaned the patio. As there was a dispute about the ongoing work, 
our Investigator recommended ICC UK complete any outstanding work related to the claim, 
and if the work had been completed then ICC UK should provide a breakdown of what has 
been completed along with the costs to Mrs M. Our Investigator recommended ICC UK pay 
Mrs £400 for distress and inconvenience.
ICC UK accepted our investigators outcome. It provided an explanation about any 
outstanding work relating to snagging issues. However, ICC UK also said Mrs M had 
received funds directly from the insurer which should have been paid to ICC UK. It therefore 
thought the additional funds Mrs M had received, could be used to rectify any issues with the 
building work. 
Mrs M responded and didnt agree. She said the compensation wasnt enough and asked for 
£1000. Mrs M also said lots of work agreed in the schedule of work hadnt been completed 
and that shed paid out to have work completed which she thought ICC UK should pay for. 
She also didnt agree the insurer had paid her funds which should have gone to ICC UK.  
As Mrs M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs M appointed ICC UK as her loss assessor, she entered into an agreement with it 
to negotiate her claim with her insurer. In the agreement Mrs M also agreed to use ICC UKs 
contractors to complete the work. Ive therefore looked at whether ICC UK has done what its 
supposed to under this agreement in a fair and reasonable way.
I would also like to clarify that in this decision I am only considering what has happened up 
to the point ICC UK issued its final response letter, 4 February 2023. Anything which has 
happened after that date, if Mrs M isnt happy with, would need to be raised as a separate 
complaint.   
ICC UK has agreed with our Investigators findings, in that the claim has taken longer than it 
should. ICC UK explained this was mainly down to delays with the insurers loss adjuster 
sending payment for work which had been completed. I can also see that when Mrs M 
complained to ICC UK, it had been around a year since the escape of water and when Mrs 
M appointed ICC UK. While I understand there was a lot of work needed to repair the 
damage to Mrs Ms home, Im not satisfied the claim was particularly complex or that a year 
was a reasonable time to carry out the repairs. Im therefore satisfied it has taken longer 
than it should have. So, I think ICC UK needs to compensate Mrs M for this. 
I can also see that when ICC UKs contractors completed work the site wasnt left in a 
condition which was in line with how Mrs M thought the repairs would be completed. In 
particular, she said it had been agreed to repair one room at a time. Instead, all rooms were 
worked on at the same time which meant Mrs M had to live in a building site. Furthermore, 
Mrs Ms patio had paint spilled over it from where the contractors had cleaned the paint 
brushes. Mrs M has also provided an extensive list of items which she says should have 
been repaired but havent, she also said shes paid for work to be completed which should 
have been paid for by ICC UK with funds from her insurer. 
Ive therefore looked at what ICC UK needs to do to put these things right. I can see ICC UK 
has said the issues raised with the repairs relate to snagging issues and that Mrs M has 
highlighted work which ICC UK says has been completed. ICC UK should therefore rectify 
any outstanding work or snagging issues. ICC UK has provided lots of e-mails containing 
correspondence about the repairs but not provided an overview of what has been done 
along with what it cost. So, Mrs M is unable to verify what work has been done when 
compared to the scope of works and how much ICC UK has paid for it.
ICC UK therefore needs to provide Mrs M with a breakdown of the work completed and the 
costings, so Mrs M is aware of what has been completed along with the costs for the work. 
So she can verify whats been paid for by the insurer. Once this has been done, if Mrs M is 
unhappy with any outstanding issues or costs, she would need to raise them separately with 
ICC UK.
ICC UK has agreed to clean Mrs Ms patio following the paint spilling on it. As ICC UK has 
agreed to this, I see no reason to comment on it further here. I can also see ICC UK agreed 
to the £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused during this claim. I 
understand Mrs M doesnt think this is enough and has asked for £1,000. When taking the 
claim journey into account, along with the fact that some of the delays were down to her 
insurer. Im satisfied £400 is sufficient compensation for the issues caused by ICC UK and so Im not going to tell it to pay any more.    
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Insurance Claims Centre UK Ltd to:
1. Complete the work required to repair the damage caused by Mrs Ms claim. Once the 
work has been completed, provide Mrs M a detailed breakdown of the work 
completed along with the costs.
2. Clean Mrs Ms patio to remove the paint marks.
3. Pay Mrs M £400 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman