DRN-4112798
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Clydesdale Bank PLC (trading as Virgin Money) 
continued to charge them a monthly account fee from June 2017, even though Virgin Money 
had accepted in 2017 that it had mis-led Mr and Mrs C in 2008 into thinking that they needed 
to keep their fee-paying account for their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C raised a complaint with Virgin Money in 2017. Virgin Money issued a final 
response letter and said that whilst it didnt think that Mr and Mrs Cs fee-paying account was 
initially mis-sold in 2002, it did concede that Mr and Mrs C had been given misleading 
information in 2008, which led Mr and Mrs C to think they needed to retain the fee-paying 
(Private) account to retain the mortgage product that they had. 
As such, Virgin Money agreed to refund the account fees that Mr and Mrs C had paid for 
their account from 2008 until June 2017. Virgin Money explained that Mr and Mrs C should 
speak to their Private Banking manager to discuss changing their account to a non-fee-
paying account.
Mr and Mrs C kept the fee-paying account, and subsequently raised another complaint, 
about the fees continuing to be charged on their account since 2017.
One of our adjudicators explained that our service is unable to consider whether Mr and Mrs 
C were led to believe they would get a better interest rate on their mortgage as they had 
already referred a complaint about that issue to our service and an ombudsman issued a 
final decision in May 2017. 
The adjudicator explained that our service is also unable to consider whether the account 
was mis-sold in the first place, as Virgin Money addressed this in a final response letter in 
June 2017. In that letter, Virgin Money agreed to refund Mr and Mrs Cs account fees back to 
2008. If Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this partial refund, Mr and Mrs C needed to have 
referred a complaint about this matter to our service within six months of the date of Virgin 
Moneys final response letter in June 2017.
The adjudicator explained that we are therefore only able to consider whether a refund of 
account fees is warranted from 2017. 
The adjudicator considered this and concluded that Virgin Money had made it clear in the 
final response letter dated 16 June 2017 that Mr and Mrs C did not need to have a fee-
paying Private account to have their mortgage. The adjudicator therefore concluded that 
Virgin Money had not done anything wrong and therefore, they did not think it appropriate to 
recommend that the Private monthly account fees should be refunded from July 2017.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
As a reminder, this decision will focus solely on whether Virgin Money are at fault for Mr and 
Mrs C continuing to be charged the monthly account fee from July 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im unable to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs C have explained that they were told in 2016 that they could not switch their fee-
paying Private Bank account. However, although they mayve been given wrong information 
in 2016, in response to their complaint, Virgin Moneys letter dated 16 June 2017 says:
However, during our discussions, you mentioned that you had discussed the Private 
Banking service branch manager with [name of branch manager] in 2008, which led 
you to question the suitability of the service for you. You also indicated that you were 
unable to cancel at this time as you were advised that your account could not be 
converted to a Retail product.
My investigations suggest that you were misinformed about this. Please accept my
apologies for this. The mortgage products you have held do not require you to remain 
as Private Banking customers, and the possibility of transferring to Retail could have 
been explored at this time.
Virgin Moneys letter went on to provide the contact details of the branch manager so that Mr 
and Mrs C could discuss changing their account to a non-fee-paying account.
As such, based on what I have seen, Im satisfied that Virgin Money made it clear in June 
2017 that it was not a condition of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage that they needed to have a fee-
paying Private account  and therefore that they couldve downgraded their account to a fee-
free account if they no longer wanted the fee-paying Private account.
In its business file, Virgin Money has provided notes from Mr and Mrs Cs relationship 
manager, and he does recall discussing with Mr and Mrs C about changing the Private 
account to a retail bank account. The relationship managers recalls Mr and Mrs C saying 
they would like to consider their options first before deciding to do so. The relationship 
manager said he was surprised that Mr and Mrs C chose not to do so given the complaint 
they had made and also that hed made it clear that the account details i.e. account number 
and sort code, would remain the same. And from what I can see it seems that Mr and Mrs C 
simply never got round to changing the type of account they held until after they had paid off 
their mortgage.
So based on everything I have seen, I cant say that Virgin Money is at fault or responsible 
for Mr and Mrs C continuing to pay for a fee-paying Private account after June 2017. On the 
contrary, Virgin Money rectified the incorrect information Mr and Mrs C had previously been 
given by clarifying in the final response letter that it was not a requirement of their mortgage 
to have a fee-paying Private account, and provided Mr and Mrs C with contact details should 
they wish to discuss changing their account. As such, I cant reasonably hold Virgin Money 
responsible because Mr and Mrs C chose to retain a fee-paying account rather than change 
their account to a fee-free account. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman