DRN-3302878
Complaint
Mr F has complained about the overdraft charges Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
applied to his current account. Hes said the overdraft increase on the account shouldnt 
have been provided on the account in the first place and the charges were unfair, increased 
his debt and caused him financial difficulty.
Background
Mr Fs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong, or that it had treated Mr F unfairly in relation to is overdraft, and so 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Ive separately explained why Im only able to look at the charges applied to Mr Fs account 
from June 2014 onwards. As this is the case, this decision is only looking whether Barclays 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr F from June 2014.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclayss charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr F if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Fs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mr F was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr F fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Barclays continued 
charging Mr F even though it ought to have instead stepped in and taken corrective 
measures on the overdraft as it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this was the case. Ive looked through the account ledgers provided throughout the period 
concerned. And I cant see that Barclays ought to have taken corrective measures in relation 
to Mr Fs overdraft during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mr F used his overdraft regularly during the period Ive looked at. And        
Mr F suggests that this in itself is a reason to indicate Barclays ought to have corrective 
measures sooner than it. But I also think its important to look at Mr Fs incomings and 
outgoing as well as any overdrawn balance and whether it was possible for him to have 
stopped using his overdraft, based on this, not just whether he actually did do so. After all if 
he was locked into paying charges because there was no prospect of him exiting his 
overdraft then his facility would have been unsustainable for him. 
However, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr F 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions account going from the account. Indeed, its fair to say a 
significant proportion of Mr Fs expenditure was discretionary and the credits going into his 
account suggested he could have cleared his overdraft within a reasonable period of time 
had he wished to do so.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr F wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these statements in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Barclays to potential financial difficulty. And while Mr F says he 
did get in contact with Barclays in July 2017 to explain he was in difficulty as a result of a 
change in salary, Barclays, in any event, did take steps to withdraw Mr Fs overdraft within 
months of this and Mr F was issued with a formal notice of termination within six months. As 
this is the case, Im in any event satisfied that Barclays took corrective action in relation to 
Mr Fs overdraft within a reasonable period of time when his circumstances changed for the 
worse.  
Finally, Ive considered Mr Fs points regarding his overall debt position with Barclays during 
this period. Its fair to say that Mr F did have loan and credit card, as well as this overdraft, 
debt with Barclays. But its also fair to say that the amount of credit advanced on those 
products was substantially more than was available to Mr F on his overdraft. The overdraft 
limit was modest in comparison to the loan amounts as well as Mr Fs credit card limit. 
So I dont agree that it automatically follows that Mr Fs other Barclays debt and his 
complaints about those products being upheld means that his overdraft ought to have been 
called in, or that this in itself means this complaint should be upheld. I say this while 
especially mindful that Mr Fs other upheld complaints has already resulted in him, as far as 
practicably possible, being placed in the position he would be in had he not been provided 
with that lending and Im satisfied that this overdraft when considered on its own wasnt 
unsustainable for him. I think that upholding this complaint as a result of wrongdoing on 
other cases, which has already been put right, would arguably overcompensate Mr F and, in 
any event, based on the facts and circumstances present in this case wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable.      
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays 
to have proceeded adding the charges that it did add from June 2014 onwards. And I dont 
think Barclays charged Mr F in circumstances where it ought to have realised that it was 
unfair to do so. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr F  especially as it has taken sometime 
for his complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman