DRN-1632661
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He said that the 
stress of paying for a car that cant be used has affected him financially and emotionally.
What happened
Mr S entered into a HPA with SMFL in May 2019 to acquire a used car. He said the 
agreement was set up over the telephone and email and that he didnt see the car before it 
was delivered. He said the car was advertised as having a mileage of 95,000 but it was 
nearer 99,000 and he didnt receive the invoice or MOT and so wasnt aware of this until 
after he had acquired it.
Mr S experienced issues shortly after acquisition. In May 2019, he reported an issue with the 
rear door not opening and the state the car was delivered in. He then raised an issue with 
the quality of the tyres. Mr S said the issues with the tyres and door werent resolved until 
August 2019.
Mr S experienced further issues with the brakes and the diesel particulate filter (DPF) 
needing cleaning. Then in December 2019, the car broke down. It was recovered and Mr S 
had a mechanic inspect it. A number of major issues were identified including the gearbox 
exploding and potentially causing further damage.  
Mr S said that given the number of issues he had experienced with the car within the first 
few months, he didnt accept that it was of satisfactory quality. He had asked to return the 
car but this hadnt been accepted. He said he cant afford the repairs and is having to pay for 
alternative transport as well as a car he cant use.
SMFL said that Mr S entered into a HPA on 22 May 2019 to acquire a used car with a 
mileage of 98,231. He contacted it on 18 June 2019, about issues with the door and a 
mileage discrepancy. A final response letter was issued. SMFL said that the cost of the tyres 
had been covered and the repair to the door would take place. It said the correct mileage 
was on the documents.
SMFL said Mr S then contacted it again on 31 October about issues with the brakes and that 
he had needed to replace a wheel bearing. SMFL said the issues were due to wear and tear. 
Mr S then contacted it again in December 2019 about further issues with the car and it 
arranged for an independent inspection to take place. This happened on 16 January 2020. 
The inspection recorded the mileage as 104,383 and concluded that the car was fit for 
purpose and of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that the invoice provided for the car 
had the correct mileage recorded on it. In regard to the issues with the car he thought these 
were due to wear and tear given the age and mileage of Mr S car. He noted the comments in the independent inspection report and didnt think he could say the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He noted that some issues could be wear and tear 
but said a gearbox should last more than seven months and that the cost of the repairs 
required was more than he could afford.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to learn that since purchasing the vehicle Mr Ss health has deteriorated, its clear 
Mr S is finding the current situation difficult.
Mr S acquired a used car through a HPA with SMFL. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), SMFL can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such 
as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. In this case the car was around seven years old at acquisition 
and had been driven over 98,000 miles.
Mr S said that the mileage was misrepresented to him. He has provided a copy of the 
advertisement which records a mileage of 95,000. He said that he didnt see the car before it 
was delivered and when the car was delivered the mileage was much higher. 
The mileage of the car at acquisition was 98,321. This is higher than was in the 
advertisement. I understand that finding the car had a higher mileage was upsetting. But as 
the documentation provided at the point of supply recorded the correct mileage and Mr S 
became aware of it at that time, had it been a key issue I would have expected Mr S to have 
raised it at that point. The actual mileage is less than 5% higher than the advertised mileage 
and I have nothing to suggested this would have a material impact on the cars value. 
Therefore, on balance, I do not think that SMFL is required to do anything in response to this 
part of Mr S complaint.
Mr S main complaint is about the quality of the car. He said it wasnt of satisfactory quality 
as shown by the issues he experienced in the first few months. Mr S acquired a used car 
with a mileage of over 98,000. Therefore it would be reasonable to expect there to be wear 
and tear and it would be possible that parts of the car would need to be replaced within a 
shorter timeframe than would be the case on a younger car or car with a lower mileage. 
A MOT was carried out at the point of acquisition and this listed damage on all four tyres. 
The car passed the MOT and so while the damage was noted in the advisories passing the 
MOT suggests the tyres met the required limit for the car to be roadworthy at that time. That 
said, given the issues raised and the photographs provided by Mr S showing the condition of 
the tyres, I find it reasonable that these were replaced at no cost to Mr S.
Mr S then reported an issue with the rear door. I can see he first raised this around a week 
after acquiring the car. While wear and tear would be expected, it isnt acceptable that a door 
wouldnt open properly so soon after acquisition. Therefore I find that this issue was present 
at the point of supply meaning Mr S car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Given this I find that 
this issue needed to be remedied for Mr S.
I can see that there were ongoing discussions between the parties involved regarding the 
door but that it was agreed this repair would take place at no cost to Mr S. Mr S agreed to the repair and as I have not been told that the repair was unsuccessful I find that this was a 
reasonable remedy to this issue.
Mr S then raised further issues with the brakes and the DPF needing cleaning. These were 
raised after Mr S had driven the car over 4,700 miles. These would usually be considered 
serviceable items and given the age and mileage of the car at acquisition and the mileage 
Mr S was able to cover before the issues arose, I find that these issues were more likely due 
to wear and tear rather than any fault. Therefore I do not require SMFL to do anything further 
in regard to these.
Mr S car then broke down. He received a report from a mechanic saying that the gearbox 
had exploded and listing a number of other issues. This happened around seven months 
after acquisition by which time Mr S had been able to drive the car around 6,000 miles. 
An inspection report was carried out in January 2020. Although this noted evidence of a 
long-term oil leak and no service history from around 86,000 miles, it said that the issues 
were associated with age-related progressive in-service wear and tear. It reported that it 
believed the car was road legal and fit for purpose at the point of supply with the issues 
having progressed over the period of time Mr S had the car.
I appreciate how upsetting this must have been for Mr S. He acquired a car and wouldnt 
have expected such major issues to arise so soon. These have caused him stress and 
upset. However, while I understand that the issues developed with a few months of 
acquisition, based on the evidence provided it appears more likely than not that the issues 
were due to wear and tear rather than faults present at the point of supply. Therefore, while I 
understand this isnt the answer Mr S wants, I do not find that I can say SMFL is liable for the 
costs of the repair or that Mr S should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr S has explained that he cant afford the repairs and is struggling financially. I also 
understand the stress the problems with his car have caused. SMFL had previously offered 
to discuss repair quotes with a possibility of making a contribution and Mr S may wish to 
discuss this further with it. Mr S is a vulnerable consumer and I would  expect SMFL to work 
with him in a positive and sympathetic way to ensure that he is fully aware of all his options 
and to support him in its ongoing relationship with him.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman