DRN-3366264
The complaint
Mr P has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) unfairly turned down his claim for 
loss of rent on his Residential Landlord insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P held a Residential Landlord insurance policy with HDI. He claimed on his policy after he 
experienced a loss of rent due to Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
HDI turned down Mr Ps claim. It said the losses hed experienced werent as a result of 
damage and therefore werent covered by the policy. 
Unhappy with HDIs response, Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He referred to the 
Supreme Court judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys Business Interruption 
Insurance test case in support of why his claim should be paid. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of his claim. 
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr P. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Residential Landlord insurance offers protection from risks common to a landlord, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Ps claim.
The relevant part of Mr Ps policy says that, as a result of damage its agreed to pay for, HDI 
will pay the:
amount by which the rent receivable by You during the following twelve 
months shall, due to the Damage, fall short of the rent which would have been 
received during the period had the Damage not occurred
The policy defines damage as accidental physical loss of, destruction of, or damage 
to the Property Insured.
For this to provide cover the loss of rent would need to be due to damage to the 
property insured. I appreciate Mr P has experienced a financial loss, but I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that this is due to damage to insured property. 
Mr P has referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case. However, 
whether a claim should be paid still depends on the terms within the policy. In this case 
Im afraid that the outcome of the test case doesnt impact Mr Ps claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I cant fairly require HDI to pay his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman