DRN-1946315
The complaint
Mr L complains that Society of Lloyd's has declined his claim on his boat insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had a boat insurance policy with Lloyds. In August 2019 he took the boat out and 
encountered problems due to bad weather. In order to get back to safety, Mr L had to turn 
the engine off and the leg of the boat came up further than it should have. This eventually 
led to the drive shaft failing. 
Following the accident Mr Ls boat needed to be repaired so he made a claim on his 
insurance. And he sent Lloyds a report from his own expert with a quote for the repairs. 
After this Lloyds sent out its own expert to examine the damaged parts of the boat. They 
produced a report that concluded the damage had been caused by the gradual wear and 
tear of the parts.
Based on this report Lloyds told Mr L it was declining the claim. It said that it was satisfied 
that the damage was due to wear and tear and this is excluded under the policy.
Mr L didnt think this was fair. He said the boat had been serviced very recently and there 
had been no problems before the accident. He made a complaint.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said that from what it had seen the damage was 
caused by wear and tear. However it said if Mr L provided a report from an independent 
engineer to show otherwise, then it would consider this. 
Mr L still didnt agree. He said the boat had been working perfectly before the day of the 
accident and he had ensured it had all required services with no problems noted. So he 
didnt agree the damage was caused by wear and tear. He brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ls complaint be upheld. He said that the report from 
Lloyds expert was more detailed than the evidence provided by Mr L. So he was more 
persuaded that the damage was caused by wear and tear. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt the role of this service to decide how the damage has been caused to Mr Ls boat. But 
instead to decide if Lloyds has acted fairly when making the decision to decline Mr Ls claim. 
To do this I look at the evidence it has based its decision on. And consider whether it has 
done enough to prove that the exclusion its relied on fairly applies.
Lloyds has said that Mr Ls claim isnt covered by the policy, as the damage was caused by 
wear and tear. In the Exclusions section, the policy states as follows:
This clause is paramount and no claim shall be allowed in respect of
(D) wear and tear, gradual deterioration, lack of maintenance, mechanical derangement, 
weathering or damage caused by insects, vermin, damp and marine life.
So I can see that where damage has been caused due to gradual deterioration or wear and 
tear, then it would be excluded from cover.
Mr L has said that the damage was caused by the one-off event in August 2019 and not due 
to the gradual deterioration of the boats parts. Where there is a disagreement about the 
cause of damage, I need to consider whats most likely based on the evidence provided. It is 
important to note that I am not an expert in how boats operate. So I have to rely on evidence 
provided by those who are. 
Both Lloyds and Mr L have provided reports from experts. I have read and considered both 
of these. Having done so I am more persuaded by the report provided by Lloyds, I will 
explain why.
The report from Lloyds expert includes a detailed explanation of the damaged parts of the 
boat, along with photos of the parts and pictures of non-damaged equivalents for 
comparison. It goes into a lot of detail about how the parts should function and how the 
damage is likely to have been caused. 
The report from Mr Ls expert is largely made up of a quote for the repairs and includes only 
a brief summary of how the damage has happened. 
I note Mr L has provided a lot of detailed explanation about how the damage happened and 
why it is unlikely to be wear and tear. I want to reassure him I have considered his points. 
However I have to base my decision on reports from experts and the evidence available. 
And based on this, I can see Lloyds expert conducted a thorough review of the damage and 
reached a conclusion based on this. So Im satisfied that it has acted fairly when declining 
Mr Ls claim. 
Lloyds has also said that if Mr L was to provide a report from an independent expert whose 
conclusion differed from its own, then it would consider this. However this isnt something 
that has been provided. So in the absence of any further evidence to prove otherwise, I think 
Lloyds has acted fairly by declining Mr Ls claim based on the policy exclusion for wear and 
tear. So I wont ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman