DRN-3333317
The complaint
Miss M, through her representative, complains that Skyline Direct Limited lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Skylines records here is a brief loan table.
Loan Date Taken Principal Term and Weekly 
RepaymentsDate Settled
1 30/10/2019 £300 20 x £21 05/02/2020
2 05/02/2020 £400 30 x £20 02/09/2020
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and although Skyline had said it had carried out a 
credit search before lending none of those details had been furnished to our adjudicator for 
review. So, she felt it was appropriate to use the credit file sent to us from Miss M and the 
research carried out by Miss Ms representative to assist her in coming to her opinion. Our 
adjudicator thought that Skyline ought not to have lent to Miss M at all.
Skyline disagreed and sent many comments as to why it disagreed but no further information 
or evidence. Our adjudicator issued another view along the same lines as the first view. 
Skyline then sent in a small amount of information relating to the credit searches and 
assessment it had carried out. It has been duplicated in part here and the format has been 
altered by me to make it more easily readable and to fit.
Loan Main 
incomeRent and 
council taxUtilities 
&telephone 
(combinedHP
Creditother Food transport Total exp
1 £1,200 £290 £100 £0 £60 £200 £120 £770
2 £1,500 £250 £165 £205 £100 £300 £40 £1,060
The table Skyline provided to us recently also showed that Skyline had calculated Miss M 
had a monthly disposable income for loan 1 of £430 and for loan 2, £440.
Skyline asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. I issued a provisional decision on 
11 March 2022 in which I gave reasons as to why I was planning not to uphold Miss Ms 
complaint. I gave time for both parties to respond. 
Skyline has said it agrees to my findings. Miss Ms representative has acknowledged receipt 
of the provisional decision and so will have been aware of the replay date deadline I set. 
We have heard nothing further from Miss M or her representative and so its appropriate for 
me to issue my final determination. I have duplicated in smaller type later in this decision my 
provisional findings. Its in smaller type to differentiate it from my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about high cost credit and short-term 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Skyline needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Skyline should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. In Miss Ms circumstances I do not 
consider that any pattern of lending had materialised as Miss M took two loans only which is 
not enough to be considered a pattern.
Skyline was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow 
further to do that.
My provisional findings dated 11 March 2022
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Now that Skyline has sent to us some information regarding the credit history it had obtained about 
Miss M before lending to her, then I have reconsidered all the complaint.I mention here that it would have been quicker for Miss M if Skyline had delivered to us a 
comprehensive file in July 2021 when initially requested. Miss Ms complaint submissions sent by her 
representative were very detailed and clearly the issues between Miss M and Skyline were going to 
involve Miss Ms credit history.
And so, I consider it was on notice as to the parameters of the arguments but sent nothing about the 
credit searches until after our adjudicators second view. And still I consider what Skyline has sent to 
us about the credit history is slim.
Having reviewed what Miss Ms personal credit file reveals plus what Skyline has sent us, then I am 
provisionally deciding that Skyline did carry out proportionate checks. One of the main reasons I have 
come to this provisional decision is because of the regulatory requirement to carry out proportionate 
checks. And all things considered, loan 1 was for a relatively modest sum over a relatively short 
period and Miss M was a new customer. And so, I would not have expected Skyline to do more than it 
did.
I have taken time to carefully look at Miss Ms personal credit file. I have no other information and so 
I can only use what the personal credit file has told me. At the time she applied for loan 1 on 
30 October 2019, Miss M had some finance outstanding. One was for £300 (starting balance), started 
June 2019 and was costing around £43 a month.
Another was with that same finance company and for £400, started 10 September 2019 and was for 
£40 monthly. As that was approved close in time to Skylines loan 1 approval, it is feasible that it may 
not have shown up on any credit searches Skyline carried out.
Another was with a home credit provider and started June 2019 and was costing Miss M around £140 
a month, payable weekly. It ended June 2020.
Skylines searches did not appear to reveal these, and I have no explanation for that, but even if it 
had, still I do not think it would have made a difference as Miss M appeared to have funds to cover 
the repayments for loan 1.
Loan 1 had no repayment problems from Skylines perspective and Loan 2 was for a relatively modest 
sum over a relatively short period. The relationship between Miss M and Skyline was still young at just 
over three months.
For Loan 2, Skyline did have details showing that Miss M had other credit commitments of £205 a 
month. And that almost dovetails with what I had seen on Miss Ms personal credit file.
Other loans and financing post-dated loan 2 and so were irrelevant as I am considering the
decisions to approve the loan in February 2020.
I can see that Miss M took another loan with a different lender in December 2019  in between loans 
1 and 2  but it was for £100 and modest. It was paid off quickly.
I have considered the defaults Miss M had on her file. Some were historic (around 2016 and 
January 2017) and although adverse information is not of itself a reason not to lend, I have noted the 
following in Miss Ms circumstances. Four of the recorded defaults were in August and 
September 2018 which would have been over a year before loan 1. Another dated  back to 
December 2019  in between loans 1 and 2  and it was for a small sum of £43.
I think it would be disproportionate for these two Skyline loans in Miss Ms circumstances and with her 
satisfactory payment record for Skyline to be reviewing the previous defaults to see which she was 
paying down, which had been in arrears for a long time and other such details. That would be 
thorough, but not necessarily required for loan 1 or loan 2 in a relatively young relationship between 
Miss M and Skyline, and for modest loan sums.I note that Skyline did concede that if Miss M had applied for further loans additional checks may have 
been required. But Miss M did not apply for more. Within the context and circumstances of Miss Ms 
two loan applications to Skyline I think its checks were proportionate.
I am planning not to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
As for Skylines requests for advice and guidance  that is not my role. To reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this case, I do not need to go further.
As for Skylines opinions on the rationale for approving credit for sub-prime customers  I make no 
comment.
My final determination 
As I explained earlier in this decision, both parties have either acknowledged receipt of my 
provisional decision or responded to it.
I have received no further arguments or evidence and so I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings duplicated above which are repeated here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman