DRN-4091697
The complaint
Mr D complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited rejected a claim he made under 
sections 75 and 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In 2019 Mr D purchased a solar panel and battery system (the system) from a supplier. He 
paid for it using a fixed sum loan agreement from Omni. 
In 2022, a claims management company (the CMC) made a claim to Omni saying that the 
system had been misrepresented to him as self-funding within five years, that there was a 
breach of contract because the monitoring service wasnt set up, and that his relationship 
with Omni was unfair on him. 
Omni rejected the claim, so Mr D made a complaint including to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our investigator partly upheld the claim. She did not think there had been a 
misrepresentation or that Mr Ds relationship with Omni was unfair on him. But she said 
there was a breach of contract regarding the monitoring service, and if Mr D incurred a cost 
to set this up that Omni should refund him for this. 
Mr D did not accept this  maintaining that there was a misrepresentation, and that the 
contract did not clearly compare the costs and benefits. The CMC pointed to another 
complaint dealt with by the Financial Ombudsman Service, which it felt was similar and it 
said was upheld. As such, Ive been asked to make a decision. Omni did not provide any 
further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, for the same reasons. This means Im 
upholding the complaint only in relation to the monitoring service not being provided. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service considers complaints on their individual merits. In the 
other complaint that the CMC has pointed to, the financial business made an offer of 
settlement during the course of the investigation, which was accepted by the consumer. Had 
that not been the case and the complaint was decided by an ombudsman, the outcome may 
have been different. In any case, the Financial Ombudsman Service resolves complaints on 
their individual merits. This means that seemingly similar complaints may have different 
outcomes for any number of reasons. 
Misrepresentation
The contract, although in four parts, is one document. It was provided to Mr D at the time of 
sale, and he signed it. I think it is likely that the discussion in the sales meeting was based 
on what is in the documents  not least as they were handwritten, presumably during the 
meeting. 
The contract includes the following information:
The purchase price of the system.
The monthly loan repayment. 
The total payable under the loan agreement. 
The estimated annual income. 
The estimated annual savings. 
The combined total estimated annual benefit (income and savings combined). 
Looking at this information, the total estimated annual benefit is shown to be £765.66. The 
monthly repayments are shown as £177.07. I think it is clear that the estimated annual 
benefit is less than the annual loan repayments, which equate to £2,124.84. 
Given the level of estimated benefit I think it is unlikely that the supplier wouldve said the 
system would pay for itself within five years. 
I have taken into account Mr Ds recollection of what he was told, including that these figures 
were described as the bare minimum he would receive. But, when considering all the 
available evidence, I do not think that his recollection is sufficiently plausible and persuasive 
for me to conclude that there was a misrepresentation. So, I do not uphold this part of the 
complaint. 
Unfair relationship
I have not seen anything that persuades me that a court would conclude that Mr Ds 
relationship with Omni was unfair on him. Omni paid no commission in relation to the loan 
agreement, it carried out appropriate checks before providing the credit to Mr D, and it 
provided Mr D with the necessary information about the loan agreement. So, I am not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
Breach of contract 
In terms of the monitoring service, this is mentioned in the contract, and it appears the 
supplier did not register Mr Ds system with the monitoring service provider. This appears to 
be a breach of contract, for which the usual remedy is to fulfilment of the contract. In this 
case that means the system being registered so Mr D can benefit from the monitoring 
service. 
I understand that Mr D will need to engage a solar panel company to inspect his system and 
register it with the monitoring service provider  and that it is possible that a solar panel 
company may charge him a fee for this. If that happens then I think Omni should reimburse 
Mr D the cost of registering his system for the monitoring service. 
Putting things right
If Mr D incurs a fee when having his system registered for the monitoring service, Mr D 
should provide Omni with evidence of the fee he has paid, and Omni should reimburse him. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in respect of breach of contract only. 
Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman