DRN-3991976
The complaint
Mr S complains about the outcome of a Section 75 claim he put in to Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays). He would like a refund of £3640 for rent for a property which he feels was 
misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate the issues Mr S has told us he had with a tenancy agreement he signed. 
For a Section 75 claim to be successful there needs to be evidence of 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
As I understand it Mr S viewed the property, took some time to think about it then 
went ahead and paid the deposit and signed the tenancy agreement. I have no 
evidence the property was misrepresented to him. He viewed it before signing the 
agreement, if it didnt match up to his expectations he could have declined it but 
didnt do so. 
In terms of a breach of contract I have seen the agreement that Mr S signed.- that 
makes it clear that the  landlord is responsible for the maintenance and repair of the 
property, so I think the problem with the tap is something that the landlord was 
responsible for. Barclays has accepted there were issues with the property but noted 
that  these had been rectified in a timely manner. The property was cleaned one day 
later than it should have been due to the late departure of the previous tenant, the 
garden was cleaned, and the tap sorted. These were the three issues that Mr S 
noted on his Section 75 claim form. As the landlord dealt with the issues that Mr S 
raised I dont think it was unreasonable of Barclays not to pursue a claim on his 
behalf.
I think Barclays dealt with Mr Ss Section 75 claim in a reasonable way  it has 
evidenced it sought information from the landlord coming to a reasonable decision 
that there were no grounds for a Section 75 claim. So, I cant reasonably ask 
Barclays to pay Mr S the sum of £3640 as he would like. Even if I did feel Barclays 
were at fault It seems this amount is for a years rental which wouldnt be reasonable   
as Mr S has lived at the accommodation so has  had the benefit of what he paid for
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman