DRN-3776735
The complaint
Miss E complains that her Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard credit agreement 
wasnt properly authorised when she opened a credit card. 
What happened
In 2008 Barclaycard approved a credit card application in Miss Es name. Miss E signed a 
credit agreement and Barclaycard made a credit card available. Miss E went on to use the 
credit card in the years that followed. 
Earlier this year, Miss E contacted Barclaycard and raised several technical concerns about 
the way the credit agreement had been authorised. Miss E said that, as a result, there was 
no requirement on her to pay interest. Miss E asked Barclaycard to refund the interest shed 
paid.
Barclaycard sent Miss E a final response but didnt agree it had incorrectly applied interest to 
her credit card and didnt offer a refund. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Es complaint. They thought Barclaycard had 
dealt with Miss Es case fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Miss E asked to appeal 
so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been brief above as all parties broadly agree the timeline and background to Miss Es 
case. Miss E has made a number of detailed technical arguments setting out why she feels 
the credit agreement is unenforceable as well as why Barclaycard should refund interest 
shes paid. I want to assure Miss E that Ive read and considered her comments and 
complaint in full. But Im not going to respond to all the points raised. My decision will focus 
on whether Barclaycard has treated Miss E fairly or not. 
As our investigator said, its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to say whether 
a credit agreement is legally enforceable or not. Thats the role of the courts. Were an 
informal dispute resolution service and decide complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. 
I understand Miss E feels there are technical problems with the way the credit card was 
authorised that means interest has been incorrectly applied. But Miss E doesnt dispute she 
borrowed money using the credit card over the years. And the agreement she made with 
Barclaycard allowed it to apply interest when the credit card was used. As Miss E had the 
benefit of the funds borrowed from Barclaycard Im satisfied it was fair for interest to be 
applied. And Im satisfied its fair for Barclaycard to ask Miss E to repay the outstanding 
balance. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss E but as Im satisfied Barclaycard dealt with her complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman