The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander UK Plc has debited her account with two card transactions 
she says she neither made nor authorised. It has refused to refund them. She complains too 
about the way her complaint was handled and, in particular, the way telephone calls were 
conducted. 
What happened
Miss S has an account with Santander, with a payment card linked to it. In early July 2019 
her card was used to make two payments for fuel at a supermarket. They totalled nearly 
£150. The card was used later the same day to make two balance enquiries, and a 
contactless payment was also declined. 
Miss S told Santander that she hadn't made the two payments or allowed anyone else to use 
her card. She hadn't told anyone else her PIN and hadn't kept a record of it. She suggested 
that someone might have seen her using her PIN and made a copy of her card. 
Santander looked into what had happened but concluded that Miss S had either made the 
payments herself or had authorised someone else to make them. It said the genuine card 
had been used with the correct PIN. It didn't agree to refund them. 
Miss S didn't accept Santander's response. She said she'd been at college several miles 
away at the time, and she doesn't drive. Police evidence didn't link her to the payments. She 
referred the case to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. 
The investigator thought that Miss S had either made the payments herself or 
had authorised someone else to make them. Miss S didn't agree with the investigator's 
opinion and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however reached the same overall 
conclusion as the investigator, and for similar reasons.  
As the investigator explained, a bank shouldn't generally debit a customer's account without 
their authority. In the case of a card payment, that authority is given by the use of the card 
with the customer's consent. So I need to consider how the payments came about - it's not 
enough that the payments were made using the genuine card and PIN. 
I'm satisfied first of all that Miss S didn't make the payments herself. The police evidence 
refers to three men being involved, using two cars. There's no suggestion that Miss S was at 
DRN-1770518the supermarket. In any event, she's provided evidence to show that she was at college at 
the time, and I accept that she was. 
However, I'm satisfied too that Miss S's genuine card was used with the correct PIN. Miss S 
has suggested that a copy or "clone" of the card might have been involved. However, 
Santander's records show that the chip embedded in the card was read when the payments 
were made. It's relatively easy to create a copy of a card by copying information on its 
magnetic stripe to the stripe on a different card. Copying and reproducing a chip is however 
a rather different matter, and I don't believe that happened here.
I note as well that Miss S said she still had the card after the disputed payments had been 
made. If that's true, it means that someone was able to take her card without her noticing 
and was then able to return it to her, without arousing any suspicion. Miss S hasn't explained 
how that might have happened.
Miss S has said that she didn't tell anyone her PIN or keep a record of it. She suggests that 
someone could have seen her using it. I don't think that's very likely though. She hadn't used 
her PIN for a few days before the disputed payments; it's unlikely that someone observing it 
with the intention of taking and using her card would have waited that long. It's most unlikely 
too that someone could have guessed her PIN - which she hadn't changed and which was 
therefore a random number. 
In my view, therefore, the most likely explanation for what happened here is that Miss S 
gave her card and PIN to someone else in circumstances she hasn't explained to Santander 
or to this service. It may be that she didn't realise what the consequences might be, but I 
don't believe it would be fair to require Santander to make a refund in the circumstances. 
Miss S has said too that Santander's staff were rude when she spoke on the phone. Like the 
investigator, however, I think they acted professionally when dealing with her. They were of 
course entitled to ask her questions in order to establish what had happened and whether a 
refund was appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Santander UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Miss S's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman