DRN-4165884
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to a cryptocurrency 
investment scam.
What happened
Mr S was contacted by someone purporting to be from an investment firm specialising in 
cryptocurrency. Mr S had already engaged in some trading himself, but the idea of having 
someone help him appealed. 
Mr S was persuaded to sign up with the firm, unaware at the time he was falling victim to a 
scam. 
Mr S was sent convincing correspondence relating to the firm and the scam. The scammers 
used professional looking email addresses. And there was a fake platform that Mr S was 
given access to. Everything appeared genuine and convincing to Mr S at the time. 
Mr S made his first payment at the scammers instruction, using his Revolut debit card. Mr S 
was shown that the initial investment made some good returns and so he was persuaded to 
invest more.
The scammer explained how banks didnt like customers using their funds for cryptocurrency 
trading and that his bank might try to block the payment. The scammer gave Mr S a cover 
story to use should it do so, to make sure the payment went through. 
Mr S other account provider did question him on why he was sending the money, just as the 
scammer had predicted. In his submissions to Revolut, Mr S said, Barclays did block 
transfer, I have called them with prepared story (silly me!), and it went through.
The scammer then instructed Mr S to send the next payment from his Revolut account, 
convincing him that it was a better platform to use. Mr S sent £5,000 from his other account 
to Revolut. He then set up a new payee and sent the funds by faster payment as instructed.
Revolut also took action to stop the £5,000 payment going through. It blocked the 
transaction and gave Mr S a warning that it appeared highly suspicious. But Mr S decided to 
proceed anyway.
It was then several weeks before Mr S realised hed fallen victim to a scam. He was told that 
hed made significant returns on his investment, and he seemed to be able to see that on the 
trading platform hed been given access to. But any time he asked to withdraw his money he 
was denied. He ultimately realised it had all been a scam and reported the matter to Revolut.
Revolut tried to recover Mr S money. The card payment was successfully charged back to 
his account. But the money hed sent by faster payment had long been removed from the 
recipient account and so it couldnt be returned. 
Revolut said it wouldnt assume any responsibility for refunding Mr S as hed authorised the 
payment and had been warned about scams. Mr S brought his complaint to our service as 
he was unhappy with Revoluts response.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. He said that Revolut ought to have done more to question the £5,000 payment 
Mr S was making. He said it was unusual enough so as to require Revolut to have stepped 
in and to question Mr S, to try and protect him from financial harm through fraud.
Our investigator also considered Mr S actions over the course of the scam. He noted that 
Mr S other account provider had stepped in to question a payment he was making toward 
the scam. And, when it did so, Mr S gave the cover story provided by the scammer to make 
sure the payment went through. Our investigator thought it was likely that Mr S would have 
then also have given a cover story to Revolut had it stepped in. And so he found it was 
unlikely further intervention from Revolut would have made a difference.
Mr S disagreed. He said if a second account provider had also questioned what he was 
doing he would have realised something was wrong. And he said the cover story he gave 
was that he was buying cryptocurrency; he didnt lie to anyone about what he was doing.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr S has fallen victim to a cruel scam. Ive no doubt this has had a 
significant effect on him emotionally as well as financially. And it must be incredibly 
frustrating to feel as though the fraud is going unpunished. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S 
further, but Im not upholding his complaint against Revolut. Ill explain why.
Broadly speaking, a customer is responsible for any transactions made on their account that 
are properly authorised. This position is confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 
as well as the terms and conditions for Mr S account.
Mr S did authorise the payments out of his account and so hes presumed liable for them, 
even though he did so under false pretences. But that isnt the end of the story. Account 
providers like Revolut have an obligation to monitor accounts and protect customers from 
financial harm through fraud. That means looking out for suspicious and/or out of character 
transactions. And, where such transactions are identified, the account provider should 
intervene and question the customer, in an attempt to ensure the purpose behind the 
transaction is legitimate and to avoid scams. 
Our investigator found that Revolut ought to have stepped in to question the £5,000 
transaction. And I can agree that it does seem sufficiently out of character to have warranted 
some further checks from Revolut. The warnings that it gave, whilst referring to fraud and 
scams, didnt go far enough to discharge Revoluts obligations to protect Mr S. The warnings 
were generic and lacked detail specific to the scam. And Id have expected some tailored 
questioning by Revolut so it could try to determine what was happening.
However, that doesnt mean that Mr S is automatically due a refund from Revolut. I, like our 
investigator, must consider whether I believe further intervention would have made a 
difference.
There is of course no way to be certain of this. I cant know what exactly Revolut might have 
asked, or how Mr S might have responded. And so, I must base my findings on what I think 
more likely than not would have happened. 
We do know that Mr S other account provider intervened when he was trying to make 
payments. What happened here is relevant to the outcome of the Revolut complaint as it 
helps to demonstrate what Mr S actual behaviour was at the time. And given Mr S was 
willing to provide a cover story to make sure the payment went through, it appears more 
likely than not he would have done the same had Revolut asked questions.
Mr S has said that if he was questioned by a second account provider then he would have 
started to have doubts. But it is the case that Revolut did flag the payment as suspicious and warned about fraud and scams. Those warnings might not have been enough to say Revolut 
had fully discharged its responsibilities, but it doesnt appear as though Mr S stopped to 
question what he was doing any further, in the face of the payment being blocked and 
described as highly suspicious. 
Mr S has said, when asked by our investigator, that the cover story he gave to his other 
account provider  and so would have given to Revolut  was that he was buying 
cryptocurrency. Im not persuaded that is accurate though and it seems more likely that a 
different cover story was given. 
I say that because Mr S told Revolut that hed given a prepared story and he described his 
actions by saying silly me. That doesnt give the impression that he told the bank (what he 
believed to be) the truth about what he was doing: buying cryptocurrency. Instead, it 
suggests he gave a story designed to disguise his actions to enable the payment to go 
through. That also matches up with what the scammer said to Mr S about the likelihood of 
the payment being stopped and the need to provide a prepared story. 
Its also the case that Mr S saying the payment was for the purchase of cryptocurrency 
wouldnt have been a cover story, at least as far as he knew at the time. He believed he was 
buying cryptocurrency and so the idea that this was a prepared story designed to get around 
the banks security measures doesnt really add up. It seems more likely that a false purpose 
was given. It then seems likely Mr S would have used that same false purpose to make sure 
the Revolut payment went though.
Ive thought about how the scam was set up in reaching these conclusions too. There were 
clearly some sophisticated elements: the professional looking email addresses, how Mr S 
was set up as a customer, the use of the fake investment platform and so on. These were 
all things that made everything appear legitimate and convincing. Mr S was understandably 
drawn in by these persuasive elements, and so I can understand why he would have 
continued to trust the scammer, even in the face of further questioning from Revolut, and 
why he would have done what the scammer said to make sure the payment went through.
With all of this in mind Im not persuaded that further intervention from Revolut would have 
resulted in the scam being avoided. And so, I dont find it should now bear responsibility for 
Mr S loss.
Im also satisfied Revolut did all it could to recover Mr S money. Unfortunately, it had 
already been removed from the receiving account by the time the scam was reported, and 
so theres nothing more that could have been done.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman