DRN-1395023
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Advantage insurance Company Limited handled a claim made 
on her motor insurance policy. She wants further compensation for her trouble and upset. 
What happened
Miss Ss car was damaged in an incident and Advantage took it to an approved garage for 
repairs. Miss S was unhappy with the service she received and with these repairs. So 
Advantage had an independent engineer inspect them. He thought rectification work was 
needed. When this was done, further rectification work was needed to complete the repairs. 
Miss S was also unhappy that the courtesy car provided didnt suit her needs and with the 
repairers customer service. 
The repairer awarded Miss S £50 compensation. Advantage paid Miss S £125 further 
compensation and replaced a tyre as a gesture of goodwill. But Miss S was unhappy with 
this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
wasnt evidence available to show the garages customer service had been poor. But he 
thought rectification work shouldnt have been required twice. He thought the courtesy car 
provided was what was available. He also thought the compensation paid to Miss S and the 
tyre repair was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss S replied that the compensation wasnt enough for all the stress and hassle shed been 
caused. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss S was disappointed and frustrated that her car wasnt repaired 
fully on the first occasion by the approved garage. As far as I can see, all the repairs were 
eventually completed.
When a business makes a mistake, as Advantage accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that Advantage agrees that the garage shouldnt have attempted further repairs 
before the independent engineer inspected her car. But I cant see that this caused Miss S 
any loss as all the rectification work was eventually completed. 
Miss S thought a window had been scratched during repairs. But Advantage said it couldnt 
see how this could have happened when a trim was glued down. It didnt have any further 
evidence to consider that showed that the garage had scratched the window. So I cant hold 
Advantage responsible for this.
Advantage also thought the tyre may have been damaged by a puncture. But it couldnt say 
whether or not this had happened whilst in the repairers care. Given the extent of Miss Ss 
poor service, I think Advantage reasonably offered to pay for the cost of a replacement as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Miss S was unhappy with the customer service she received from the garage and its lack of 
contact. Advantage acknowledged and apologised for this. I dont doubt what Miss S has 
told us, but I havent any evidence of how she was treated by the garage. I think the garage 
could have done more to keep Miss S updated. But I think any claim is going to involve 
some inconvenience and so I think Advantages apology is sufficient for this. 
Whilst repairs were made, Miss S was provided with a courtesy car by the repairer. Miss S 
said the car didnt suit her needs. I can see that Miss Ss policy provides for a small courtesy 
car during repairs if she uses a nominated repairer. The car is supplied by the repairer and I 
think in such cases theres often limited choice. Miss S had the use of a courtesy car whilst 
her repairs were carried out. So I think Advantage acted within the policy terms and 
conditions. 
It took a week for the initial repairs to be done by the garage. It was a further week before 
the independent engineer inspected the car and then he had to send his report to 
Advantage. Rectification work was then completed at the garage twice and the garage 
visited Miss Ss house to fix a window trim. From what I can see, it took about two weeks in 
total from the independent engineers inspection for all the work to be done. 
During this time, Miss S wasnt without transport. Advantage had collected her car for 
repairs. But Miss S had to make an extra journey to the garage. I can understand that she 
felt stressed during this time. So Ive considered this, the calls she had to make and the time 
and cost of Miss Ss wasted journey.
Advantage offered Miss S £125 compensation for this level of service and the repairer 
offered her £50. I think this compensation, with the £125 replacement tyre, is fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with the level Id award in similar circumstances. I dont require 
Advantage to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman