DRN-3591105
The complaint
Mr M complained because Nationwide Building Society didnt agree that hed paid in £7,000 
cash, rather than £6,980.
What happened
On 23 February 2021, Mr M went to a Nationwide branch. He paid in a cheque for £175, and 
also paid in some cash. Mr M believed hed handed over £7,000 cash, but the cashier said 
there was only £6,980.
The money was re-counted, but the cashier still said there was only £6,980. Mr M asked why 
there wasnt a machine to count, as other banks did, and the cashier said the battery was 
dead in the machine. The cashier gave Mr M the option to take his money home and re-
count it, or pay it in. Mr M said hed pay it in, but he was still unhappy and he rang 
Nationwide to complain. Nationwide said it would investigate. Mr M said it was the principle 
of it, and also said he hadnt been given a receipt for the money that had been deposited. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It phoned him, but theres no call recording of the 
call. On 26 February, Nationwide sent Mr M its final response letter confirming the outcome.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said hed seen the till record, which 
confirmed that the till balanced. Hed considered what Mr M, and Nationwide, had said. Their 
accounts were similar except that Mr M had said he couldnt see the money being counted, 
whereas Nationwide had said the money was counted several times in front of Mr M. The 
investigator said he thought it was more likely that the money had been correctly counted as 
£6,980.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he was very disappointed. He said that the investigators view 
was nothing about his evidence, and was one-sided in favour of Nationwide. Mr M explained 
that he didnt get normal counter service, and there had been no CCTV. He also said the 
money hadnt been checked by a machine, as the investigator had said. Mr M also explained 
that Nationwides head office had told him it would refund the £20, but the branch had 
refused. He said that the investigator hadnt dealt with his point about head office having 
agreed to refund him. Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr M is very unhappy about this. I can understand why hes so upset, because 
as he said, its a matter of principle for him. He was a long-term customer of Nationwide, and 
felt distressed because the local branch manager had overturned the refund which Mr M 
said head office had promised him. Mr M said that all he wanted was the £20 which was 
stolen from him to be refunded. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr M found himself in this situation. I also accept that he genuinely 
believes that he paid in £7,000 cash, not the £6,980 which was credited to his account.
I cant say for certain what happened, because there was no CCTV and I wasnt there. When 
this happens, I have to take my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened, 
taking into account the available evidence. That evidence includes Mr Ms testimony, the 
branch testimony, and the factual evidence from the computer records on that day.
Theres a conflict between the evidence provided by Mr M and the branch. Mr M says there 
wasnt a counting machine, and the money wasnt counted in front of him. The branch 
employee says the machine needed to be charged so she couldnt bring it in front of Mr M, 
but that she made sure he could see.
Ive also studied the computer evidence for the till. This shows, among other things, cash 
and cheques received, cash paid out, daily totals, and whether or not the till balanced at the 
end of the day. This computer document proves that the till did balance at the end of the 
day, with no £20 cash over.  The branch as a whole also balanced that night.
I asked Nationwide for more information about Mr Ms complaint. I asked for the phone 
recording where Mr M said head office said his £20 would be refunded, and I asked for any 
letter that Nationwide had sent saying this.
I also asked whether Nationwide would refund Mr M, who was a long-term customer, with 
£20 as a gesture of goodwill.
Nationwide replied that it couldnt locate a recording of the phone call with Mr M, and it said 
not all calls are recorded. It said that it couldnt locate any letter it had sent offering Mr M a 
£20 refund. It didnt agree to pay Mr M £20 as a gesture of goodwill.
I also asked Mr M whether he had a letter from Nationwides head office confirming hed be 
refunded with £20, but he said he didnt receive a letter.
Its disappointing that Nationwide wasnt willing to offer Mr M £20 as a gesture of goodwill in 
the circumstances of this case. I recognise that Mr M genuinely believes he paid in £7,000, 
not £6,980. But when the testimonies of Mr M and the branch conflict, I have to rely on the 
computerised till record and branch records. These dont show a £20 surplus. So Im not 
able to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman