DRN-4201533
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) didnt follow his withdrawal 
instructions.
In bringing this complaint Mr P is represented by his wife Mrs P. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to Mr P throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr P held a NS&I premium bond account. He submitted a withdrawal instruction to NS&I. In 
doing so, he asked it to transfer his funds to a savings account he held with a building 
society.
But NS&I transferred the funds to Mr Ps building society current account instead. Mr P 
complained to NS&I saying that transferring the funds to his current account meant hed lost 
out on the interest he would have earned had the funds been placed in his savings account.
NS&I didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said a savings account is not considered to be a 
bank account, so it was unable to accept Mr Ps request to send the funds to his savings 
account. It added that Mr Ps funds were sent to his previously verified nominated account in 
line with the account terms and conditions.
Mr P didnt accept this outcome. So, he referred his complaint to this service. He said that 
NS&I had transferred funds to a savings account for his wife, so it could have transferred his 
funds to his savings account.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He agreed with Mr P that NS&I should 
have been able to transfer the funds to a savings account. But he said Mr Ps account terms 
and conditions say that withdrawals can only be made to a previously verified nominated 
account. And in Mr Ps case, he had nominated his current account. So, he didnt think NS&I 
had done anything wrong and he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He reiterated that NS&I had transferred his 
wifes funds to the same type of savings account he held. And that he had provided NS&I 
with his contact details had it needed to contact him about the withdrawal request.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the matter, so the complaint was passed to me, 
and I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision dated 13 June 2023
Like the investigator, I agree that NS&I was wrong to say  in response to Mr Ps complaint, 
that it couldnt transfer funds to a savings account. It has since explained to this service that 
it is unable to send funds to unverified account details.
The terms and conditions relating to NS&I premium bond accounts say: When you make a 
withdrawal or receive a payment from us, we usually pay the money into your nominated 
account. So, Im satisfied that a withdrawal of funds is generally paid to a verified nominated 
account.
NS&I has provided its records to show the account details it had previously verified as         
Mr Ps nominated account. The records show a building society account with a number 
ending *230. So, Im satisfied this was Mr Ps nominated account and I havent seen 
anything to suggest Mr P asked NS&I to change his nominated account prior to submitting 
his withdrawal request.
However, having looked at a copy of the cash-in form Mr P completed when he asked to 
withdraw the funds, I havent seen any instructions on the form which would have highlighted 
to (or reminded) Mr P that he needed to input specific account details which had previously 
verified. It simply asks for an account number and sort code.
Having thought about this carefully, I think its most likely that Mr P had simply forgotten that -
when he opened the account, it was his current account details which had been verified by 
NS&I. And Im persuaded that Mr P has a point when he says NS&I should have contacted 
him before sending the funds to the previously nominated account when it was clear he 
intended to funds to be transferred to a different account.
Had NS&I contacted Mr P it could have either verified the new account details or at least 
made Mr P aware of where the funds were being sent so he could make arrangement to 
subsequently transfer the funds to a savings account.
Putting things right
Mr Ps withdrawal request was completed on 8 February 2023, the funds were sent to a 
current account which didnt earn any interest. Mr P says he became aware of this on          
16 February when he received his current account statement  8 days later. Hes told us he 
immediately attended his branch to transfer the funds to the account he had intended the 
funds to be paid to.
I find Mr Ps testimony to be persuasive and my own research on the type of savings 
account he held has shown the relevant interest rate was around 3.2%. As such, Im 
persuaded Mr P lost out on around £24 in interest.
Ive also taken into account that Mr P was inconvenienced by having to attend a branch to 
make the transfer from the current account to his savings account. So, overall, I find its fair 
and reasonable that NS&I should pay Mr P £50 (in total) in recognition of the lost interest 
and inconvenience caused.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any further comments for 
me to consider.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, and didnt submit any new evidence for 
consideration, I have no reason to change the findings and outcome set out in it.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
National Savings and Investments should now contact Mr P to arrange to pay him £50 in 
recognition of the loss of interest and distress and inconvenience this matter caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman