DRN-4002859
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt allow him to port his 
mortgage product. Mr C says he paid an early repayment charge (ERC) of about £11,500 
and a product fee, and lost the benefit of the lower interest rate. Mr C says this also caused 
him distress, as he wants to move closer to his children.  
What happened
Mr C re-mortgaged with Halifax and took out a five-year fixed interest rate product in late 
2021. This included an ERC. He sold his property in early 2022. 
Mr C made an application for a new mortgage, via a broker, in May 2022. He says he was 
told in July 2022 that he didnt meet criteria to port the product or receive a refund of the 
ERC. This was because Halifax didnt receive the application within three months of Mr Cs 
mortgage being redeemed. Mr C says this is unfair and left him out of pocket by about 
£38,000.
Our investigator said Halifax had told Mr C correctly in January 2022 that he needed to make 
an application within three months of redeeming the mortgage. Mr C applied outside this 
time limit, and Halifax was entitled to decide not to refund the ERC. Our investigator said the 
£50 paid by Halifax for delays in responding to Mr Cs concerns was fair.
Mr C didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C took out a five-year fixed interest rate product in December 2021. An ERC was payable 
if he redeemed the mortgage during the product term. This was clearly set out in the 
mortgage illustration. Mr C sold his property and redeemed the mortgage on 1 February 
2022. Halifax applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the product terms and 
conditions.
Mr C says this is unfair. He wants to port the product to a new mortgage. 
Mr C spoke to Halifax in mid-January 2022. Ive listened to a recording of this call. Mr C said 
hed agreed to sell his property but hadnt yet made an offer for a property. Mr C asked a 
number of questions. But the issue here is what he was told about the time limits to apply for 
a new mortgage, to meet Halifaxs criteria to port the product and/or qualify for an ERC 
refund.
Halifax said to qualify for a refund of the ERC Mr C needed to start an application for a new 
mortgage within 90 days. Mr C noted this down. Halifax said that starting an application was 
more than just asking for a decision in principle. It said it meant meeting with its mortgage 
adviser and providing the information needed for the application. Mr C asked if hed be able 
to retain his interest rate and Halifax said this was possible provided the application was 
made within 90 days of redeeming the mortgage.
Mr Cs application was submitted on 3 May 2022, which was more than three months (or 90 
days) after he redeemed his mortgage.
Mr C made a mortgage application via a broker. He could only make a porting application via 
a broker if the sale and purchase were simultaneous. But he could qualify for an ERC refund 
provided the application was made within three months of the mortgage being redeemed. 
Halifax didnt explain there was a different approach when an application is made by a 
broker. But this didnt affect the outcome. Halifax didnt receive the application within the 
three-month time limit.
Halifax considered whether to waive the time limit, as an exception to its usual policy. It 
decided not to do so. This must have been disappointing for Mr C. But Halifax gave Mr C 
correct information about its time limits and applied its policy correctly. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to require Halifax to refund the ERC or port Mr Cs 
mortgage product. 
Halifax apologised for not responding more quickly when Mr C raised a complaint and paid 
£50. I think, in the circumstances, this was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman