DRN-3543928
The complaint
Mr M complains about Lloyds Bank PLC and the way they processed a payment he made by 
cheque. He is also unhappy with their failure to remove a block to his online account.
What happened
On 15 October 2021, Mr M attempted to make a payment of £55,000 out of his current 
account provided by Lloyds via cheque. Due to the significant amount, this payment was 
flagged and referred for a security check. Lloyds attempted to speak to Mr M, without 
success. So, the payment was initially declined.
Mr M realised this payment had been declined and returned and so, he asked his personal 
assistant, who Ill refer to as S to make a partial payment via his online banking on two 
occasions. But these payments were again referred for further security checks with Lloyds 
fraud team. S attempted to discuss this with Lloyds but was unable to do so, as Lloyds 
explained they needed to speak to Mr M directly.
Mr M spoke to Lloyds, but was unable to pass the security checks for several reasons, 
including confusion surrounding the accounts registered postcode and his inability to log 
onto his mobile banking or read from his card due to a medical procedure affecting his 
eyesight. So, Mr M was referred to branch to remove the account block to his online 
banking. But the cheque was represented and cleared on 19 October, two working days 
later.
Mr M was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint. Mr M didnt think Lloyds had acted 
fairly when declining his payment by cheque, and the online payments S had attempted on 
his behalf. And he didnt think Lloyds acted reasonably when attempting to complete the 
security checks or refusing to take authorisation from S. So, he wanted to be compensated 
for the inconvenience this caused, as well as the damage he felt it had on his reputation with 
the payments intended recipient. Mr M also wanted to be compensated for the difficulties he 
faced in branch when attempting to have the online block removed.
Lloyds responded to Mr Ms complaint in two parts and upheld it. They recognised Mr M had 
been inconvenienced by their security checks. But they didnt think they had acted unfairly 
as they had a duty to protect Mr Ms account from fraudulent activity and they explained S 
had never been authorised to make payments on his behalf. Despite this, they offered Mr M 
a payment of £68, paid as a gesture of good will, to recognise any upset hed been caused. 
And they accepted the service they provided to Mr M when he attended branch to remove 
the block on his online account fell below the standard theyd expect, and they paid Mr M 
£40 to recognise the inconvenience this caused as well. 
But Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Lloyds acted 
fairly when flagging the payments Mr M made via cheque and online for security checks as 
part of their internal processes to protect Mr Ms account. So, they didnt think Lloyds needed 
to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint. And they recognised Lloyds had already 
accepted their service in branch couldve been better. But they thought the total 
compensatory amount of £108 was a fair one and adequately addressed any inconvenience 
this caused. So, they didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree, providing several reasons as to why, all of which have been considered 
when deciding this complaint. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I appreciate it was Mr 
M who had signed and authorised the payment of £55,000 by cheque. So, I can understand 
why he wouldve felt frustrated when this payment didnt go through initially. I also appreciate 
this isnt the crux of Mr Ms concerns and that his concerns relate more to the actual security 
process he went through when Lloyds flagged the payment.
I also dont think its in dispute that Mr M found the security process difficult to navigate, 
largely due to Lloyds refusal to discuss the account with S, and his difficulty in seeing due to 
a medical procedure. All this led to multiple conversations being had without any immediate 
rectification of the situation, resulting in the payee not receiving the funds until two working 
days after Mr M intended. I appreciate why Mr M would feel as though this damaged his own 
reputation and the embarrassment hed feel because of this.
But for me to say Lloyds should pay Mr M more than the £108 they already have, Id need to 
be satisfied that they made an error in the way they handled the security process after Mr 
Ms payment had been flagged. Or, that the compensation paid so far doesnt adequately 
address the inconvenience Mr M experienced that I think Lloyds are responsible for. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I know Mr M is unhappy with Lloyds internal systems 
and processes. But these are something I can comment upon, or direct Lloyds to change, as 
this responsibility falls under the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Im also unable to decide upon Lloyds decision not to discuss Mr Ms account with S. Lloyds 
have confirmed it is their own internal process to only discuss security issues such as a 
flagged transaction with the account holders directly. And as Ive explained, I cant comment 
on these processes. 
I appreciate Mr M disputes this process, and questions why Lloyds would call S when trying 
to reach Mr M, but I recognise S was listed on the account as being for information purposes 
only. And so, I think it follows that Lloyds had authority to contact S if they were trying to 
reach Mr M to authorise payments.
So, Ive then focused on the service Lloyds provided to Mr M directly during the security process. Ive seen the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account, which are available online on 
Lloyds website. And these explain that Lloyds can refuse to make payment where the 
payment seems unusual compared with the way you usually use your account. I think a 
payment of £55,000 is a substantial one and so, Id think this qualifies as unusual. Because 
of this, I dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly when seeking confirming from Mr M that it 
was a payment he intended to make.
Lloyds have confirmed a call was made to Mr M to verify this, in line with standard industry 
practice. Their terms and conditions go onto explain in situations such as Mr Ms, Lloyds 
may investigate further, for example by calling you. So, I think Lloyds acted within the 
terms of Mr Ms account when doing so. And that there was no stipulation on the number of 
times a call needed to be attempted.
I recognise Mr M disputes receiving a call. But Lloyds have confirmed the agent they use to 
process cheques on behalf did so. And as Mr M instructed S to make a separate online 
payment instead the same day, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr M was made 
reasonably aware the cheque had been returned. And Mr M himself called Lloyds the same 
day in an attempt to pass the required security checks, without success. So, I think its most 
likely a call was made as I have no reason to think otherwise. And even if it wasnt, I dont 
think Lloyds were unfair to refuse processing the cheque before checks were completed. 
And I dont think Mr M was prevented, or unfairly delayed, from providing the necessary 
information to allow the cheque to be processed. So, I dont think Lloyds need to do anything 
more here.
But thats not to say I dont understand Mr Ms unhappiness. I think its clear his eyesight, 
and confusion about the postcode linked to the account, made the security process more 
difficult than Lloyds intended or Mr M expected. But again, I dont think this means Lloyds 
have done something wrong. Lloyds have a security process in place to ensure any 
payments being made from a customers account are genuine, to prevent any financial 
losses from fraudulent activity. As Mr M was unable to provide the information Lloyds 
requested correctly, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to allow the payments to go through as I think 
this would risk the security of Mr Ms account. So, while I understand the frustration Mr M 
was caused, I dont think this was as a result of an error Lloyds made.
I think its also important to note that due to information Lloyds noted on Mr Ms file following 
conversations he held, the cheque cleared, and the payment was processed two working 
days after it was first attempted, which I dont think is an unreasonable amount of time. I 
appreciate in actual days this was longer, due to the weekend, but I dont think Lloyds are 
responsible for the delays caused by the weekend.
And while I appreciate Mr Ms point about damage to his reputation, this payment wasnt 
made from a business account. It was made from a personal account. And Ive seen no 
evidence to show this was a business transaction and so, that it impacted Mr Ms reputation 
in his industry with a client. So, while I appreciate Mr M wouldve felt some form of 
embarrassment, I dont think this requires any additional compensation as it hasnt arisen 
from a preventable error Lloyds made.
But I dont dispute Lloyds service in branch fell below the standard they and Mr M expected. 
And its not in dispute that the block on Mr Ms online banking facility shouldve been 
removed sooner. I think this block wouldve been inconvenient for Mr M, as would the need 
to go into branch to verify his identity. Lloyds have offered Mr M £40 to recognise this which 
plus the additional £68 offered as a good will gesture means Mr M received a total of £108 
compensation. I think this is a fair offer, in line with what I wouldve directed had it not been 
made, to recognise the inconvenience this block and the effort took to remove it caused. So, 
I dont think Lloyds need to do anything more on this occasion.I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I recognise he feels strongly 
about the situation and the service he received. I also recognise Mr M has made several 
comments, particularly after receiving copies of the evidence our service has received, and 
not all of these comments may have been directly discussed within this decision. I want to 
reassure Mr M Ive considered everything hes raised at length. But my decision has focused 
on what I believe the be the key points of the complaint. And I hope this decision explains 
clearly why I dont think Lloyds need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman