DRN-1024558
 
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (HRG) declined to remove 
a particular amount from her store card account.
What happened
On 19 November 2018 Mrs T bought a vacuum cleaner from a retailer using her store card 
(the item).  The item was bought on a buy now, pay later basis, meaning that Mrs T would 
need to pay interest on the cost of the item if she didnt pay it off within six months of 
purchase. 
Mrs T then bought a different, more expensive, vacuum cleaner from the same retailer on 21 
November 2018 using her store card. She says she didnt like the first one she bought and it 
was returned to the retailer. She also says she contacted HRG on 21 November 2019 and 
was told by two different representatives that payment for the item had been cancelled, and 
it didnt appear on her account. 
Subsequently, Mrs T discovered that the cost of the item was on her account and payment 
of the full amount was due by May 2019, otherwise interest would be charged. When she 
questioned this further she was told that the retailer hadnt received the item back - so she 
was liable to pay for it. 
Unhappy, Mrs T complained to us. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs T 
disagreed  and via her representative  raised further points in response to our 
investigators view.  Her complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it. I 
know Mrs T will be very disappointed by this but hopefully shell understand my reasons 
when I explain why. 
Mrs T accepts that she ordered the item and paid for it using her store card on 19 November 
2018, and Ive seen evidence that the item was delivered to her around noon the following 
day.
However, when contacting the retailer, HRG was told that it had no record of the item having 
ever been returned or of the retailer arranging for the item to be collected. Nor had it 
received any request from Mrs T for it to collect the item from her.
Mrs T has said it wasnt she who handed the item to the delivery driver. She said she wasnt 
at home at the time; it was her daughter who had seen a van close to where Mrs T lived and 
had assumed that it was there to collect the item so she gave it to the driver before going 
home. Its possible that did happen. But Mrs T has told our investigator that she cant recall 
contacting the retailer to arrange collection and she hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence by way of a receipt - or similar document  showing that someone on behalf of the 
retailer took possession of the item from her daughter on or around 21 November 2018. So, 
all in all, I dont think HRG has unreasonably concluded that theres insufficient evidence to 
show Mrs T returned the item on the balance of probabilities. And so Im satisfied it hasnt 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by not removing the cost of the item from her store account. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account what Mrs T says about contacting HRG on 
21 November 2018 and being told that the cost of the item wasn't on her account and  had 
been removed. HRG accepts that Mrs T received incorrect information and the reason why 
the cost wasnt showing on her account was most likely because it can take up to 48 hours 
from the date of purchase to do so. Its apologised and said its provided feedback to the 
relevant department for an internal review. Thats in line with what I would expect HRG to 
have done, and Im satisfied it doesnt need to do anything further. 
I appreciate Mrs T mightve been disappointed to subsequently discover that the payment 
was on her account, contrary to what shed been told on 21 November 2018, and HRG has 
apologised for this. But given my findings above, Im satisfied that the cost of the item had 
been correctly applied to Mrs Ts store card account and HRGs stance that Mrs T remained 
liable to pay it  despite whats she said about the item having been returned - was 
reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman