DRN-2921119
The complaint
Mr U complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to close his account incorrectly. Mr U 
instructed solicitors and HSBC eventually agreed to reopen Mr Us account. 
Mr U would like HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay the solicitors fees.
What happened
In 2011, Mr U updated his address with HSBC. HSBC amended Mr Us correspondence 
address but not his account address. 
Mr U fell into arrears due to payments not being received into his HSBC account. HSBC sent 
default letters to Mr U  but these were sent to Mr Us old address due to HSBC not updating 
the details correctly. So, Mr U didnt receive them.
In 2018, HSBC closed Mr Us account and passed Mr Us debt onto a debt collection agency 
because they hadnt received a response to the default letters and the debt hadnt been 
paid.
In May 2019, Mr U complained to HSBC and hired a solicitor to help him. After an 
investigation, it was discovered that another bank should have been sending payments to 
Mr Us HSBC account. If the payments had been sent as they should have, Mr Us account 
wouldnt have fallen into arrears. As a gesture of goodwill, HSBC agreed to re-open Mr Us 
account.
Mr U said HSBC resolved his main issue, but he incurred around £980 fees for the solicitors 
involvement. HSBC didnt agree to pay the solicitors fees on behalf of Mr U  so Mr U 
referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Us complaint. He said that HSBC had already put Mr U 
back in the position he would have been in by re-opening his account. And he said that 
HSBC had been in touch with the solicitor Mr U used, and the solicitor said the fees were to 
do with the issues surrounding the other bank  not HSBC. And as it was Mr Us choice to 
ask for a solicitors involvement, it wouldnt be fair for HSBC to incur this loss. So, our 
investigator didnt think HSBC should pay anything. Mr U remained unhappy.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Im sorry this will be disappointing news for 
Mr U  but Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ive thought about the actions of HSBC not updating Mr Us address correctly in 2011. Ive 
no doubt this would have been frustrating for Mr U to realise, but I dont think it had a 
significant impact on the overall actions of HSBC. I say that because, HSBC eventually 
closed Mr Us account because of the arrears. And its been confirmed that the arrears 
happened due to the actions of another bank not sending money to Mr Us HSBC account.
Mr U appointed a solicitor to help him with the issues with the other bank, and the 
subsequent issues of HSBC closing his account.
If HSBC had sent the default letters to Mr Us correct address  the other bank would have 
still not been sending payments to Mr Us HSBC account. Mr U has explained the issues 
with the other bank and the payments were only resolved after the solicitors involvement. 
So, based on the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not, Mr Us HSBC 
account would have still closed because it still would have fallen into arrears even if Mr U did 
receive the default letters.
I recognise Mr U spent time and money appointing a solicitor. And its only after the 
solicitors involvement that Mr Us issues have been resolved  but that has resulted in Mr U 
having to pay the solicitor. I can understand why Mr U would like the solicitors fees paid on 
his behalf, but it was Mr Us choice to appoint a solicitor.  I cant fairly ask HSBC to pay the 
solicitors fees for Mr U because Mr U was free to pursue his complaint with HSBC  and our 
service  as an individual. I havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC would have come 
to a different conclusion if Mr U had represented himself.
Ultimately, Mr U made the decision to ask a solicitor to represent him and deal with his 
complaint. They did  and Mr Us complaint was resolved which Im pleased to hear. But as 
Mr U made a personal choice to pay a solicitor, its not reasonable for me to ask HSBC to 
pay the fees incurred as a result of Mr Us choice. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do 
anything differently.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman