DRN-1884312
 
The complaint
Miss C complains about the way Harvey & Thompson Limited dealt with her loan account.
What happened
Miss C took out a loan for £300 with Harvey & Thompson in September 2015. The loan was 
repayable by 45 weekly instalments. 
Miss C made loan repayments by direct debit until February 2016. Then, after four 
successive direct debit payments were returned unpaid, she made two repayments by credit 
or debit card. After that, no further payments had been made when Miss C brought her 
complaint to us. Interest continued to accrue on the account until September 2016.
Miss C says she was living overseas at the time. She says her loan application was 
originally declined, on the grounds that she didnt have a UK phone number. She says 
Harvey & Thompsons representative suggested that she buy a UK SIM card and throw it 
away after making the application. She accepts that the direct debit was cancelled, but she 
says she was in the UK shortly after that and she made payment in person to Harvey & 
Thompson and set up a new direct debit at the same time. 
Miss C says that once the direct debit payments stopped being taken from her account, she 
assumed that shed finished repaying the loan. But she discovered, on her return to the UK, 
that a significant balance remained on the loan account. And she doesnt believe that Harvey 
& Thompson made reasonable attempts to contact her about the outstanding balance. She 
says they knew she lived overseas, and that her preferred contact method was email.
Harvey & Thompson say that they have no record of an earlier loan application having been 
declined. They say that they tried to contact Miss C on the day the direct debit was 
cancelled, and they called her on both her landline and mobile phone numbers frequently for 
around six months. They say that on several occasions they left messages with third parties 
for Miss C to call them back, and they sent Miss C arrears letters to the address shed 
provided when she applied for the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she explained that she 
hadnt seen any evidence to support Miss Cs claim that Harvey & Thompson knew that she 
lived abroad. And she couldnt conclude that Harvey & Thompson had treated Miss C 
unfairly.
Miss C wasnt happy with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Weve asked Harvey & Thompson for any record it has of an earlier loan application that 
Miss C may have made using overseas contact details, but its told us it has no such record 
Ive seen a summary of the information Miss C provided when she applied for the loan. She 
said she was living at an address in the UK, was working full-time and had been with her 
employer for 1-2 years. She provided both a UK landline phone number and UK mobile 
phone number. And she provided a letter from a utility company dated just over two months 
before she applied for the loan, confirming that it was the energy supplier at her new 
address. That address was in the UK, and was the same address as was shown on her loan 
application.
Harvey & Thompson says that when it phoned to speak to Miss C over the months after the 
loan repayments stopped, and someone else answered the phone, it was able to leave 
messages for Miss C to call back. On one occasion, it says it was told shed call back when 
she was back home, later that day.
Im aware that Miss C told us that she would try to get evidence from Harvey & Thompson 
that shed originally applied for a loan using overseas contact details, and had been 
declined. But as Ive explained, Harvey & Thompson has told us it has no such record, and 
Im not aware of any good reason to doubt this. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that it was Harvey & Thompson itself that stopped 
the direct debit, or that it gave Miss C any reason to believe that shed finished repaying the 
loan.
The last two payments that had been made to the account when Miss C brought her 
complaint to us were the two payments she made by debit or credit card in March 2016. 
Harvey & Thompson says the direct debit was cancelled around a week after the second of 
those payments. I dont know why this was, but Im satisfied that Harvey & Thompson made 
numerous attempts to contact Miss C about the outstanding debt over the months that 
followed. Ive seen nothing in Harvey & Thompsons records to support what Miss C says 
about having told Harvey & Thompson that she preferred to be contacted by email. And from 
what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable of Harvey & Thompson to think that its phone 
messages and letters would reach Miss C.
Even if Miss C was living abroad when she took out the loan, she has had the use of the 
money she borrowed and remains liable to repay it in accordance with the terms of the credit 
agreement. Harvey & Thompson should attempt to reach a mutually agreeable repayment 
arrangement with Miss C. And in doing so, it should remember its responsibility to treat her 
positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman