DRN-2335833
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H took out the PPI policy alongside a credit card he applied for in March 2003.
The policy cost 79p per £100 of Mr Hs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of that 
balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mr H that the policy was optional, and it had to get his 
consent before applying PPI to his account. Mr H says he remembers PPI being discussed, 
but he didnt need it and he was pressured into taking it.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H has said, but pressure is a subjective area  what one 
person perceives as pressure may be different to another. Mr H hasnt provided a detailed 
account of what made him feel pressured and I cant know exactly what would have been 
said during the meeting. So, without more information from Mr H, I cant say he was 
pressured into taking the policy.
Barclaycard says Mr H chose to take PPI and its provided a copy of his application form for 
me to review. On the application form, there is a section about PPI and two separate boxes 
to select either yes or no for the policy. The yes box has been selected and the no box 
has been left blank. Mr H has signed the application form, confirming that he agrees with the 
selections on it. So, I think Mr H was aware he had a choice and that he chose to take PPI at 
the time.
Barclaycard has treated this as an advised sale, which puts more responsibility on 
Barclaycard  it means it had to check the policy was suitable for Mr H. So, in fairness to 
him, Ive considered the case on the basis that advice was given.
Based on what Mr H has told us about his circumstances at the time, the policy appears to 
have been suitable for him. I say this because from the information Ive seen, Mr H was 
eligible for the policy. And he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the things that 
might have made it harder for him to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-existing 
medical condition, or unusual employment circumstances.
Mr H says he was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if he was 
off sick from work. He also says his family could have helped him. Ive thought about this, 
but the policy would have paid out on top of any sick pay Mr H received and he could have 
claimed again subject to a requalification period. While his family may have offered to help, 
circumstances could change which means their help could not always be relied on. So, I 
think the policy could have been useful to Mr H if he fell on hard times. 
I also havent seen anything to show the policy was unaffordable for Mr H at the time of sale. 
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr H, Barclaycard also needed to give 
him enough information about the policy so he could decide whether to take it or not. And its 
possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr H about the terms and cost of the policy wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable 
for Mr H, I dont think better information would have made a difference to his decision to buy 
it.
So, overall, I dont think this PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman