DRN-2544648
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the manner in which U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R was in an accident in which his car was damaged. UKIs in-house engineer initially 
estimated that the repairs would cost around £11,720. A manufacturers authorised garage, 
chosen by Mr R, estimated the cost of repairing the car at around £15,045. UKI authorised 
the garage to carry out the repairs. However, the final costs of the repairs were considerably 
more than that. 
Mr R was unhappy with UKIs decision to repair the car, rather than deem it a total loss. And 
he feels that the car has lost value as a result of the accident and repair. He brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She thought UKI had handled the 
matter reasonably. Mr R didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr R's made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything he's said and everything on file. But in this decision I don't intend to address each 
and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key points at the heart 
of Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr Rs policy says that if his car is damaged then UKI will choose whether to repair the car 
or to settle Mr Rs claim by paying him the cars market value. And, as long as the car is 
physically repairable and safe to be put back on the road, thats a decision UKI is entitled to 
come to itself. In this case, at the date of the accident, Mr Rs car was valued at around 
£28,800. UKI initially estimated the costs to repair it at around £11,720. However, the 
manufacturers repairer estimated the costs to be significantly more. And UKI made the 
decision to go ahead with the repairs based on the repairers estimate rather than its own in-
house engineers estimate. So the fact that UKIs engineer produced a low estimate isn't 
relevant to UKIs decision to repair the car. And I think that was a reasonable decision. 
At that time the repairers estimate was around 52% of the cars value, which meant that it 
would be economical to repair. Ive noted that Mr R has sent us a report from an engineer he 
instructed himself who valued the car at the date of repair not the date of the claim. But its 
standard practice for insurers to value cars at the date of the accident/ loss, rather than the 
date of repairs. And if UKI had settled Mr Rs claim as a total loss then we would have 
expected it to give him the market value at the date of claim. So I don't think it would be fair 
to use the date of repair when considering the cars value. 
Further it's clear that both UKIs in-house engineer and the manufacturers approved repairer 
felt the car could be repaired safely. And, as I've said above, it's for UKI to decide whether or 
not it wants to repair the car or deem it a total loss. And given that it thought that the car 
could be safely repaired and it was economical to do so, I think its decision to go ahead with 
repairs was reasonable. However, once the car was stripped and the repair work had begun 
the repairer found additional damage which required extra work to repair not included within 
the initial estimate. This isn't unusual in the repair process. The cost of repairs remained less 
than the market value of the car and the repairs had already begun. 
So, if UKI had chosen to deem the car a total loss at that point, then it would have had to pay 
Mr R the market value of the car and also pay the repairer for the work it had already done. 
That means it would have had to pay for repair work for a car when it was a total loss. It also 
means it would have had to pay out somewhat more than the car was worth. And in those 
circumstances I think it was reasonable that UKI decided to continue with the repair work 
even though the costs increased.
Ill add that Mr Rs engineer gave the reasons why he believed the car wasn't economical to 
repair. But while I've noted what hes said, as I've said above, UKI is entitled to make its own 
decisions about whether or not it wishes to repair a car or deem it a total loss. So just 
because an independent engineer has a different opinion doesn't mean that UKI has done 
anything wrong. 
Mr R also said that the cars involvement in the accident and repair will cause its value to 
drop. Whether Mr R decides to tell any prospective buyer whether or not the cars been in an 
accident is a matter for his discretion. But the repairs were carried out by a manufacturer 
approved repairer and, generally, a repairer should return the car to the condition it was in 
before the accident. So the repairs shouldnt automatically mean that the car is of less value. 
Further, even if the cars value did drop because of the accident, this drop in value isn't 
something thats covered by Mr Rs policy, so its not something for UKI to address.
For completeness Mr Rs told us that the car is now displaying warning lights and he isn't 
happy with the standard of the repairs as he believes the car has lost power. However, these 
aren't points that he originally raised with UKI. And it's not something UKI has addressed. I 
understand hes taken this up with the repairer. So I don't intend to comment on those points 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman