DRN-3856386
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy Metro Bank PLC hasn't reimbursed her for funds she lost to a scam 
investment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in detail. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Ms F invested £56,000 from her Metro account between 2 and 21 December 2020. She sent 
the money in this case via a genuine cryptocurrency exchange and then from that account 
moved it to the scammer.
Our investigator partially upheld Ms F's complaint. She felt Metro should've intervened early 
on in this scam and could've unravelled it. But she also felt Ms F should hold some 
responsibility for what happened.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in early January 2023. My findings were as 
follows:
Metro has disputed that an intervention by it would've stopped Ms F investing in this 
scam. It hasn't argued that the payments our investigator set out ought not to have 
triggered this intervention, so I'm working on the basis it does accept it should have 
intervened. For completeness I'm in agreement with the investigator that an 
intervention should've taken place. Ms F sent large sums of money to an Australian 
cryptocurrency exchange in a very short time - by her payment on 4 December 2020, 
she'd sent £6,000 in two days and was trying to send a further £5,000 that day.
Metro believes that it couldn't have unravelled the scam as Ms F was following the 
advice of a trusted third party. But I can't agree it would be enough for Metro to 
simply ask Ms F is she knew/trusted the party she was investing with. While there are 
no set questions it had to ask, it should have enquired about what she was doing and 
why. And based on Ms F's testimony about what she understood of this opportunity, I 
think this would have prompted some serious concerns for Metro and it would have in 
fact been able to unravel this scam.
I've reviewed Ms F's testimony around how she came across the investment 
opportunity and what she believed it would deliver. She's explained she was 
introduced to her broker through a friend and work colleague. She never met the 
broker, they corresponded mainly by WhatsApp. She's explained he offered her 
investments with "excellent profits and 'no risks"'. And has detailed that one 
investment was "guaranteed" to make 5% profit a week and the other 10% a week. 
She was told she'd be able to withdraw after a week and provided contact details 
including an address for the broker.
There are therefore a number of red flags in the information about the investment 
Ms F believed she was paying into. For a broker to be able to offer an investment 
opportunity with no risk whatsoever and on top of that be able to guarantee the 
amount of profit that could be returned - at such high levels - simply seems too good 
to be true. Neither the broker nor the company Ms F believed her investment was 
going to had any form of regulation and from the information we hold, Ms F hadn't 
invested before this opportunity.
Considering the above, I think there was enough for Metro to unravel this scam. Ms F 
had clearly been given false promises and she hasn't suggested she did any 
thorough research into the broker. I can't find anything about him or the company 
online. His address doesn't have a postcode and the details given don't correspond 
to a real property. But this is also why I'm provisionally deciding there should be a 
considerable contributory negligence deduction in this case.
Ms F has set out to us that she doesn't agree she should 'share the blame' for what 
happened. She says Metro should have sent warnings to her and/or blocked her 
transactions. And it should have known the company wasn't reliable.
Ms F sent £56,000 in under three weeks. Considering the amount money being 
invested I can't say she did enough or suitable research into the broker or investing 
in this area in general. Ms F paid the broker and company through a cryptocurrency 
exchange - so Metro had no idea who she was actually paying. As per her 
statements she was paying a genuine firm. Ms F on the other hand did have access 
to the brokers details and the company name to research this. And I can't say that 
she should have considered the investment truly plausible considering what she had 
been told.
Taking everything into account, I consider that liability should be equally split in this 
case. Metro should have contacted Ms F early on in the scam, as she was sending 
unusual and uncharacteristic payments of high sums from her account to a 
cryptocurrency exchange. However Ms F also had enough information to realise 
something wasn't right with this investment. Both parties failed to act on information 
that could have unravelled this scam and prevented the majority of the losses.
As Ms F made the payments to genuine cryptocurrency firms there are no recovery 
options for her funds. The cryptocurrency exchanges did provide her with the service 
she paid for it, was after this the money was lost.
Ms F responded to the provisional decision with some legislation that didnt apply to the type 
of payments she made. We explained this to her and she then said that it was the duty of 
Metro to warn her. Metro didnt respond to the provisional decision. The case has now been 
passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Ms Fs submissions in response to my provisional decision, but they dont 
change my findings. I was already in agreement with her that Metro needed to do more than 
it did. And I think that if it had spoken to her on 4 December 2020, it wouldve been able to 
set out the risks she was likely taking and this warning wouldve prompted her to do more 
research and stop investing. However, that doesnt change the responsibility she also holds.While Ms F has reiterated that Metro shouldve warned her, shes not provided any further 
details or explanation about why she didnt do any research herself. Or why she considered 
such a high return, no risk investment offered by an unknown party plausible in the 
circumstances. Im therefore not changing my findings from my provisional decision. I was 
already in agreement with her about Metros duty, but she also had responsibility to look into 
what she was doing before parting with such a large sum of money. So I see no reason to 
change my findings from my provisional decision, included above, and so still conclude each 
party here holds equal responsibility from when Metro shouldve intervened.
Putting things right
Ms F and Metro Bank PLC should each be responsible for 50% of the payments from 
4 December onwards. I don't consider Metro should be held responsible for the initial 
payments as it didn't need to intervene immediately in this case. However it should have 
contacted Ms F on 4 December 2020, and I consider this call would've led to the scam 
unravelling. Metro should award interest on this amount at the rate Ms F would've received 
on the account that the £45,000 was moved in from .
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman