DRN-2359837
The complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited ("BMW Finance") declined his 
application for finance.
What happened
Mr S applied for finance with BMW Finance in June 2019 to acquire a vehicle. His 
application was declined. He doesnt think he has been treated fairly. 
Mr S had a previous finance agreement with BMW Finance which started in March 2019 and 
was settled in June 2019 following issues with the car subject to that agreement. He says 
the new agreement applied for in June 2019 was for the same vehicle type and the same 
amount of money. He says he was led to believe the finance was declined due to his 
financial standing and given his situation felt he had no choice but to accept a higher cost 
finance offer from another finance provider.
BMW Finance says that Mr S handed back the vehicle subject to the March 2019 agreement 
due to his concerns about the brakes. It says that the issue Mr S had raised had been 
investigated and no faults found with the vehicle, but the return of the vehicle was agreed. It 
says that following this it didnt think it could meet Mr S expectations regarding brand quality 
and decided not to provide further finance to him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that BMW Finance could decide 
whether to provide finance to a customer. She noted that BMW Finance had agreed to 
remove the search from 22 June 2019 from Mr S credit file which she considered fair.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He said that had he been told the real reason why 
his application had been declined in June 2019 he would have looked to purchase a vehicle 
from another manufacturer. He says the reason for his application being declined referred to 
his profile worthiness which he considered a reference to his credit profile which he says 
was excellent. He says he felt forced into signing an agreement with another finance 
provider as he had two credit searches on his credit file, one from BMW Finance and one 
from the new finance provider and he didnt want a further search on his file.
Mr S says that BMW Finance acknowledged the issue with his previous car which was why 
he was able to return it. He says BMW Finances comments that it cant meet his 
expectations are based on his returning a defective vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It is a commercial decision for BMW Finance to make as to whether to provide credit 
to a customer and while it isnt my role to say who BMW Finance should lend to, I 
can consider whether it has treated Mr S fairly.
Mr S application for finance was declined. After investigation into Mr S concerns 
BMW Finance explained that a decision was made not to lend to Mr S. This followed 
a previous experience when Mr S returned a car. BMW Finance has explained that 
no fault was confirmed with the previous vehicle despite several tests and while the 
return of the car was accepted it decided to not provide further lending when Mr S 
made a new application. While I understand Mr S comments about the previous 
vehicle and the offer to return it, I accept that BMW Finance made a commercial 
decision about whether to provide new lending to Mr S.
Mr S has said BMW Finance didnt tell him the reason for his application being 
declined and had this happened he would have looked elsewhere for a vehicle and 
not felt that he needed to accept the finance he did. Under the Standards of Lending 
Practice, a business should provide the main reason for an application being 
declined if asked by the customer. Mr S was sent a letter dated 27 June 2019, which 
said that his application was deemed too high risk to accept. While I agree this could 
have been clearer, I dont find that this says there was any issue with Mr S credit 
worthiness and I find it provided a reason for the application being declined.
In the final response letter dated 11 September 2019, BMW Finance says that credit 
worthiness checks are carried out but then goes on to say that it has discretion as a 
business as to whether to provide finance to a customer. So, while I note Mr S 
comments about him being led to believe it was a credit issue that caused the 
decline, I do not find that this is what he was told, instead I find that he was told that 
BMW Finance found his profile too high risk. This was then later clarified.
Mr S entered into a finance agreement with another finance provider. I note his 
concerns about the searches on his credit file and I appreciate the points he has 
made but it was Mr S choice as to which finance provider to use and I do not find I 
can hold BMW Finance responsible for any cost difference that arose from this 
decision.  
I understand why this situation has been upsetting for Mr S and appreciate his 
comments about the return of the previous vehicle. However, it isnt my role to say 
who BMW Finance should lend to. It has its own lending criteria and in this case Mr S 
didnt meet its requirements. I have nothing to suggest that Mr S has been treated 
unfairly in this decision process, and so I do not find I can say BMW Finance is 
required to take any further action.
BMW Finance said that it didnt believe it had reported a declined finance application 
on Mr S credit file. It offered to remove the credit search from Mr S file which I find 
reasonable. 
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman