DRN-3569562
The complaint
Mr Fs complained, on behalf of his company T, that Klarna Bank AB (publ) unfairly refunded 
one of his customers, even though he said the customer had received the goods T had sent 
them.
What happened
In summer 2020, T shipped goods to its customer worth £740.  They used a courier 
company to make delivery.  The customer used Klarna to pay for the goods.
The customer said they didnt receive the goods.  T said theyd been delivered.  When the 
parties couldnt resolve the issue between them, the customer raised a dispute with Klarna.
Klarna asked T to provide proof of delivery from the courier theyd used.  They said this 
needed to include the name and signature of the recipient.  On behalf of T, Mr F sent Klarna 
a name and a photograph showing the parcel had been left inside a building but not at a 
specific address.  And he said it hadnt been signed for, because Covid-19 protocols put in 
place by the courier service meant that no signatures were being requested at that time.
Klarna responded, saying their shipping policy hadnt been complied with and asking T Ltd to 
refund the customer, failing which Klarna would refund them at Ts expense.  Mr F 
suggested that Klarna contact the courier for GPS evidence their driver was in the area and 
expressed concern that there was a loophole in the shipping policy.  But Klarna maintained 
this was not sufficient and they needed a signature to say the delivery had been made.  So 
they refunded the customer.
Mr F complained on behalf of T.  When he wasnt satisfied with their response, he brought 
Ts complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Klarna didnt need to do any more 
to resolve it.  They noted Klarnas shipping policy gave Klarna the right to take over any 
dispute  if the merchant (in this case, T) complied with their shipping policy in its entirety.  
But, if they didnt, Klarna was entitled to return the claim to T and be refunded by them.
The investigator carefully considered the terms of the policy and noted the name printed on 
the delivery slip didnt match the customers.  And the courier had delivered the parcel to the 
common area of a block of flats  not to a particular address.  So they werent satisfied the 
parcel had been delivered to the customer, even without requiring a signature.
Mr F indicated that T didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive noted Mr F has expressed concerns that Klarnas policy is open to abuse.  But I cant 
look at how businesses choose to operate  only whether theyve dealt with the customer 
making a complaint fairly and reasonably.
Wed usually expect businesses to follow the terms and conditions theyve made their 
customers aware of  unless that produces an unfair outcome.  So first Ive looked at 
Klarnas shipping policy.  The relevant part says:
1. Goods must be sent to the shipping address approved by Klarna at the time of the order.
2. An authorised person is anyone present on the premises at the exact delivery address 
who signs for the goods if it is a residential address. Where the order is delivered to a 
commercial address, Klarna only offers protection when the order is signed by the Customer 
themselves.
3. The Merchant shall produce documentation evidencing the following (as a minimum 
requirement, and the Merchant may be obligated to provide additional information depending 
on the delivery method):
a. Date and time of delivery or collection
b. The exact address of delivery or collection
c. Printed name and signature of the person collecting the goods.
I think thats clear.  So Ive thought about whether its fair for Klarna to have relied on those 
terms in this case.
Ive seen Mr F has said it wasnt fair for Klarna to rely on the lack of a signature to say the 
parcel wasnt delivered, because measures in place at the time to restrict contact between 
people meant the courier company wasnt obtaining signatures.
If the lack of a signature were the only issue, I dont think it would have been fair for Klarna 
to conclude the parcel wasnt delivered.  But it wasnt.  Ive also seen confirmation from the 
courier that the parcel was left in a communal area, due to the driver not being able to 
manage stairs.
And Ive considered the photograph Mr F forwarded to us.  It shows the parcel, in what 
appears to be a hallway, next to some stairs.  But theres no image showing any more 
identifying features, such as signage showing the building address, or the customers name 
on a buzzer or postbox.
So I wouldnt be satisfied that the parcel was properly delivered to the customer  even 
without the requirement for a signature.  That means I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Klarna to refund the customer, at a cost to T.  And so I dont think Klarna need to do any 
more to resolve Ts complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ts complaint about Klarna Bank AB (publ).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 Helen Stacey
Ombudsman