DRN-4388815
The complaint
Mrs S complains Mutual Clothing Supply Company Limited trading as Mutual (Mutual) 
gave her loans while at the same time lending to her husband and having other loans 
outstanding from other providers. These loans werent affordable for her.
What happened
Mrs S took three loans from Mutual and Ive outlined a summary of her borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment 
per loan
1 £500.00 03/03/2018 31/01/2019 51 £13.72
2 £1,200.00 11/08/2018 outstanding 102 £18.23
3 £1,000.00 27/03/2019 outstanding 102 £15.19
Following Mrs Ss complaint, Mutual issued its final response letter (FRL) in October 2022.
Mutual didnt uphold the complaint about loan one. But it did agree that loans two and three 
ought to not have been granted and it made an offer to settle the complaint.
Mrs S didnt agree with the proposed outcome and instead referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who explained he wouldnt consider loans 
two and three because Mutual had already upheld her complaint about them. And in relation 
to loan one, given the loan amount, term and what it knew about Mrs S and her husband it 
ought to have verified her financial situation. But as the adjudicator didnt have bank 
statements, he couldnt say what Mutual may have seen.
Mrs S responded, to say she doesnt have a bank account, but instead she shares one with
her husband, but the account is not in joint names. She also explained that there had been
some form of lending relationship with Mutual since 2013  through her husband. And at the
time the loan was approved, she was in receipt of benefits.
The adjudicator let Mrs S know that the bank statements provided didnt change his mind
about the outcome of the complaint and in response Mrs S said:
At the time the loan was advanced, the household income was less than £500 per
month and when loan one was approved, there was a negative balance each month.
At the time this loan was approved, Mrs Ss husband already had two outstanding
Mutual loans  which have already been upheld by the Financial Ombudsman.
Mrs S was only given this loan because her husband had been told he couldnt take
any further loans.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional 
decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mrs Ss complaint in full. 
Both parties were asked to respond to the provisional decision as soon as possible, but in 
any event no later than 16 October 2023. 
Both Mrs S and Mutual let us know they accepted the provisional decision and neither of 
them had anything further to add. 
Although the deadline for a response to the provisional decision hasnt yet passed, as both 
parties have accepted the findings I see no reason to wait in order to issue the final decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mutual had to assess the lending to check if Mrs S could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Mutuals checks could have taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Mrs Ss income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors include:
Mrs S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs S.
Mutual was required to establish whether Mrs S could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs S was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ss complaint.
Loan 1For this loan, Mrs S explained that she was in receipt of benefits  and according to the
application form, this is broken down to around £90 per week.
On top of this, Mutual has recorded weekly outgoings of £200. Now clearly, this couldnt all
have been paid by Mrs S because that is more than twice her declared income. However, as
part of the application it took details of her husbands work and income, and this has been
recorded as £400 per week.
Mutual must have expected, that the majority of the weekly expenditure would be paid by
Mrs Ss husband given, he earned more, and the expenditure was more than Mrs Ss
income. However, and what hasnt been recorded, is how much of Mrs Ss income did
Mutual expect to be used to cover regular expenditure. Mutual hasnt discovered as far as I
can see whether, for example, none of Mrs Ss income went towards the expenditure or 50%
or all of it. At the very least I think there needed to be some understanding of this, perhaps
Mutuals agent did make enquires with regards to this, but if so, it hasnt been provided.
I would add, that as a household the loan looked affordable but I do have concerns about
this because it relied on Mrs Ss husband to contribute towards the expenditure and it had no
idea of what his expenditure was  such as other credit commitments. So, I dont think it was
correct, for Mutual to just have assumed that Mrs S may be able to access some of her
husbands income in order to potentially either make the loan affordable and or cover her
living costs.
In addition to this, I have also thought about the fact that Mrs Ss husband had a lending
relationship with Mutual for a number of years  since 2013. So, while this was Mrs Ss first
loan, the agent who provided this loan was the same one who had provided loans to her
husband, so in that sense this wasnt a new relationship. And Mrs S wasnt a new customer
in the traditional sense.
When Mrs Ss loan was advanced her husband had two outstanding loans that needed to be
paid to Mutual of around £58 per week. And this commitment wasnt noted in the application
form in the expenditure section despite the agent being aware of this.
In my view, given that Mutuals agent wouldve likely been aware of the existing relationship
that had already been ongoing for around five years, the fact that Mrs Ss husband had
outstanding loans  that werent factored into the weekly expenditure and what I think is fair
to say Mrs Ss modest income made up of benefits. In my view this should have prompted
Mutual to have carried out further checks before granted the loan.
Mutual couldve carried out these additional checks, in a number of ways, it couldve asked
for evidence of her outgoings such as copy bills. It couldve asked to see copies of
Mrs Ss bank statements or any other documentation it felt it needed to obtain in order to
satisfy itself that it had carried out more robust checks. This mightve helped verify
information provided and revealed whether there was any other information which Mutual
mightve needed to consider about Mrs Ss financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Mutual carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve
likely discovered that Mrs S couldnt afford her repayments or discovered it that the lending
was likely unsustainable for her for some other reason.
Mrs S has explained that she shared a bank account with her husband and didnt have one
in her own name and in effect, there was one pot of money that was used to cover all the
household expenditure. So, all the income was paid into one account and all the expenditure
was paid from the same account. As his was how Mrs S and her husband operated their
finances, Ive had to consider the statements in light of this.
And Mrs S has provided a copy of her husbands bank statement for February and March
2018  and so Ive looked at these, in order to establish what Mutual may have seen had it
made better checks.In terms of Mrs Ss income  this does appear to have been verified by Mutual before the
loan was advanced. And in terms of Mrs Ss income what it has recorded on the application
form appears to be broadly correct.
However, looking at the statement as whole, for the month before this loan was advanced, I
can see a monthly benefit payment of £222.60 as well as a weekly payment of another
benefit of £62.70. On top of this, I can see tax credits being paid into the account of £146 per
week. So, the household income, from benefits appears to have been around £264.35 per
week or around just over £1,000 per month.
But the loan could only really be affordable based on Mrs Ss husbands wages, and these
have been declared as being £400 per week (as per the application form). Having looked at
the bank statements, there are transfers into the account  from what I know to be the
business account, but these do not add up to anywhere near as much as £400 per week. At
best I can see around £50 per week being moved into the account but even then, I cant be
sure that it was a salary.
And we already know that Mrs Ss husband had outstanding loans  well at the very least
Mutual ought to have known given it appears to have been the same agent that dealt with
Mrs S and her husband, the weekly total commitment after loan one was advanced would be
£71.56 per week.
So, I do think, at best the household income was £1,200 per month with the majority of this
being made up of benefits. The total household commitment to Mutual (or at least the
commitments that needed to be made by Mrs S and her husband) amounted to around
£286.24 per month.
Given the extended previous loan history with Mutual, and the overall cost (to either Mrs S
solely or to the household) in my view, the repayment for loan one represented a significant
proportion of both Mrs Ss sole income and the combined payment Mrs S and her husband
would have to make was also in my view significant.
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mrs S wouldnt have been able to
meet her or the households existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think
its unlikely Mrs S wouldve been able to sustainably meet the weekly repayments for this
loan.
And this argument holds where I consider Mrs Ss situation on her own i.e. a weekly income
of £90 with a payment of £13.72 or whether I consider the whole household income and
outgoings. The results is the same, I dont think this loan could be sustainable repaid.
I am therefore intending to uphold Mrs Ss complaint about loan one.
Loan 2 and 3
Mutual has accepted that these loans ought to not have been provided to Mrs S. And it
outlined in the FRL the steps it would take to put things right for her.
And the steps that Mutual has agreed to take to put things right for Mrs S in relation to these
two loans, are the proposed redress is exact same ones that the Financial Ombudsman
would use if we decided that these loans ought to not have been provided to Mrs S.
As Mutual has accepted these loans ought to not have been provided and has offered
compensation to Mrs S there is no need for me to investigate whether these loans were
correctly provided. But Mutual, should, if it hasnt already done so, arrange to redress these
loans as it has outlined in the final response.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs S and Mutual have accepted the findings of the provisional decision. So, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons and I still dont think 
Mutual shouldve approved any of the loans for Mrs S.
Im therefore upholding her complaint and Ive set out below what Mutual needs to do in 
order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent to Mrs S, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a
great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs S may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs S would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs S any of her loans and Ive incorporated in the below
redress the offer Mutual made to resolve loans two and three.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if Mutual is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Mutual cant buy the debts back, then Mutual should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Mutual have already refunded.
B. Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. It should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs S as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs S 
having made overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on any outstanding loans. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mrs S. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mrs S. Mutual shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
Mutual have already written-off.
E. Mutual should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file in 
relation to loan one. And in line with what Mutual agreed to do in the FRL to put 
things right for Mrs S, the overall pattern of Mrs Ss borrowing for loans two and three 
means any information recorded about them is adverse. So, Mutual should remove 
these loans entirely from Mrs Ss credit file. Mutual does not have to remove loans 
two and three from Mrs Ss credit file until these have been repaid, but Mutual should 
still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
Mutual Clothing Supply Company Limited should put things right for Mrs S as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman