DRN-3430000
The complaint
Mr P, a sole trader, complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG Insurance (UKI) 
declined his claim and cancelled his property owners insurance policy as it considered it to 
be fraudulent. 
What happened
Mr P was a sole trader who owned a property. He had property owners insurance to cover 
it, that was underwritten by UKI. 
In August 2020 Mr P made a claim on the policy after a boundary wall in the garden 
collapsed following a storm. UKI sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and 
subsequently referred the matter to a fraud investigation. 
Following this, it declined the claim and said it was cancelling Mr Ps policy as it considered 
the claim to be fraudulent. It said there was a large pile of debris in the garden by the wall 
and it thought Mr P was carrying out renovations and that the tenant had moved out while 
that took place. And this didnt match the account he had given. It also said that it didnt 
consider the storm conditions on the day of the damage were strong enough to knock down 
a wall of that construction. 
Mr P wasnt happy with this as he said the wall had collapsed due to the storm. He provided 
accounts from neighbours and a report from his own expert that supported this. He made a 
complaint but UKI maintained its position. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded that UKI had acted unfairly by 
cancelling Mr Ps policy due to fraud as it hadnt done enough to show this. So she 
recommended it reinstate the policy and remove any fraud markers from internal and 
external systems. However she thought it had done enough to show that the storm wasnt 
the main cause of the damage, so thought it had acted fairly by declining the claim.  
UKI didnt agree with our investigators recommendation. It said it had carried out a thorough 
investigation and had done enough to show that Mr P had acted fraudulently. It said it 
believed he had caused the wall to collapse in order that the debris in the garden could be 
collected on the road, and therefore considered the claim to be dishonest. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud
UKI has said it believes Mr P has been dishonest when making the claim. And it has relied 
on the fraud condition in the policy to decline the claim and cancel the policy. 
The fraud condition in Mr Ps policy states that In the event of any claim under the Policy 
being submitted which in any respect is intentionally exaggerated or fraudulent.. then UKI 
can decline the claim and treat the policy as having been cancelled. Ive considered if UKI 
has acted fairly by relying on this condition to cancel Mr Ps policy.
UKI has provided notes from its investigations and I can see it has looked into things 
thoroughly. It concluded that there were inconsistencies in what Mr P had told it as it 
believed there were extensive renovations taking place at the property and that the tenant 
had moved out during that time.
However I dont agree its done enough to fairly apply the fraud condition. To fairly say a 
claim was fraudulent wed expect UKI to have shown that Mr P intentionally gave false or 
exaggerated information for financial gain. Here, even if I were convinced that Mr P had lied 
about the renovations and tenants circumstances, this would have had no bearing on the 
claim. A claim on the storm cover in the policy isnt dependent on whether the property is 
undergoing renovations, or whether it is occupied. So while UKI think Mr P has been 
dishonest about the renovations taking place at the property, I dont agree this is enough to 
show that the fraud condition would fairly apply.
I note that since the complaint has come to this service, UKI has said it believes Mr P has 
purposefully knocked down the wall so that the debris in the garden could be more easily 
removed, due to parking restrictions elsewhere on the road. However I have seen no 
evidence to support this. And, as UKI has pointed out, the debris hadnt been removed from 
the garden as there was still a large amount present when the claim was made. So not only 
do I consider that UKI have not done enough to prove this theory, I also consider it highly 
improbable.
Based on this, I dont think UKI has acted fairly by relying on the fraud condition to cancel 
Mr Ps policy. I therefore agree with our investigator that it should reinstate the policy and 
remove all fraud markers from both external and internal systems. 
Claim decline
As I dont think UKI has acted fairly by relying on the fraud condition, Ive gone on to 
consider whether it has fairly declined Mr Ps claim for storm damage.
When deciding if an insurer has fairly declined a storm damage claim, this service considers 
three questions. And if we think the answer to each is yes, wed say the claim should be 
accepted. The questions are:
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage
Here, Im satisfied that the weather on the day of the damage did amount to storm 
conditions. Ive seen from weather reports in the area that winds reached 53mph on that 
day, so thats enough to persuade me that there was a storm. 
However, while the damage caused to the wall could be considered consistent with storm 
damage, Im not persuaded that the storm was the main cause. 
UKI has provided a report from its loss adjuster who inspected the wall. Theyve concluded 
that the wall was of such substantial construction that strong winds alone would be unlikely 
to cause the level of damage. Theyve also pointed to other areas of the wall and property 
that remained undamaged after the storm. While Mr P has disagreed with this conclusion, the evidence he has presented isnt as 
comprehensive as the report from UKIs loss adjuster. His report states that the storm 
caused the damage, but doesnt go on to consider if this were the main cause. While I dont 
doubt the storm caused the wall to fall, from what Ive seen, I think UKI have done enough to 
show that other factors were the main cause, and the storm merely highlighted existing 
problems.
For these reasons I dont think UKI has acted unfairly by declining Mr Ps claim for storm 
damage, so I wont ask it to do anything differently in relation to the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited  
trading as NIG Insurance to:
Reinstate Mr Ps policy.
Remove all fraud markers on internal and external systems. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman