DRN-2128053
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) didnt do enough to help him 
when he was the victim of fraud.  
Background
In May 2019, Mr O transferred around £5,012 to invest in a product that appeared to be 
offered by a legitimate firm. Unfortunately, Mr O transferred the money to a scammer who 
was operating as a clone of that business.
He had been researching potential investments on line and submitted some information 
online. Shortly afterwards, he was called by a scammer who claimed to be working on behalf 
of the legitimate firm. A conversation took place about investment options available to Mr O 
and he was given paperwork to complete. From what hes told us, Mr O said he wanted to 
invest more than £5,000 but that he was told this wouldnt be possible. He carried out 
several checks, including looking up the company on the register of authorised firms 
maintained by the Financial Conduct Authority. He also found online that the product that 
was being offered was available through a well- known investment intermediary.
All of this together satisfied Mr O that this was a genuine investment and he was happy to 
transfer the funds. After hed transferred the money, a warning was placed on the Financial 
Conduct Authority website warning people that there was a scam operating involving a clone 
of the firm Mr O believed hed invested with. He contacted the company to which hed made 
the transfer and asked it to return his investment, but there was no response.
He complained that the Co-op shouldve done more to protect him from fraud. It rejected his 
complaint and said that, as hed authorised the transfer, there was nothing further it couldve 
done. Mr O was unhappy with this and so he referred his complaint to this service.
It was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator found that this 
£5,012 transfer was unusual and out of character and so the Co-op shouldve looked at 
more closely before processing it. But he didnt think it wouldve made a difference. The 
specific details of the fake investment made it highly plausible  Mr O hadnt been promised 
an unrealistic return nor had he been cold-called or pressured into investing. These are 
commonly occurring features of investment scams. Even if the Co-op had opted to ask Mr O 
further questions about his investment, the investigator didnt think it would have been able 
to identify that Mr O was at risk of fraud.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators conclusion and so the case was passed to me 
consider and issue a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Mr O authorised this payment. He was duped by a scammer into 
instructing the Co-op to make the transfer because hed been told he was paying into a 
legitimate investment. He did not intend the money to go to a scammer, but under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider the 
Co-op should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
I contacted the Co-op by email to set out my preliminary thoughts on the case. I explained 
that I thought this payment was unusual and out of character and so ought to have attracted 
greater scrutiny before being processed. I had looked at the statement information provided 
by the Co-op. There are few payments in the six months prior to the scam that are on the 
same scale as this transfer. Furthermore, this transfer was made to a new payee and to an 
account held with a money remittance company. In the light of these factors, Im satisfied 
that the Co-op ought to have recognised that Mr O was at a heightened risk of financial 
harm.
However, I also considered whether any intervention on the part of the Co-op wouldve made 
a difference. The fake investment was plausible for all the reasons discussed in the 
background section of this decision. For those reasons, I agree with the investigator that it 
wouldve been more difficult to identify that Mr O was at risk of financial harm.
However, I think its significant that the payment was made via a money remittance 
company, rather than directly to the recipient companys bank account. The fact that the 
money remittance company was used also meant that the payment was destined for an 
overseas account. This shouldve been apparent from the sort code used. I think the Co-op 
shouldve recognised that it would be unusual for an established business offering 
investment products to retail customers to receive payments in this way. 
The Co-op didnt agree with my reasoning. It said that the name of the cloned firm suggested 
that this was an international company. It therefore wouldnt have been surprising to learn 
that the payment was made to an overseas account. It also pointed out that the company 
that had been cloned was itself based overseas.  
These points are well made, but Im unpersuaded by them. The fake company that Mr O had 
interacted with had presented itself as operating in the UK and the documentation it provided 
him with showed a London address. I think he wouldve at least found it strange to learn that 
the payment was being made to an overseas account.I also think the fact that this was effectively an international payment meant that there was a 
greater risk that this wasnt a legitimate investment. All else being the same, a customer is 
likely at greater risk of being scammed if theyre making an international payment. It was 
also made during a period where scams involving cloned companies were particularly 
common. Id have expected the Co-op to be aware of the increase risk here and factored 
that in.
This was a significant sum for Mr O, and I dont think hed have wanted to take any major 
risk with it. If the Co-op had explained how scams involving cloned companies operate, its 
highly likely that hed have taken additional steps to verify that he was in contact with a 
legitimate firm. And if hed done so, I think its likely this payment to the scammers wouldve 
been prevented. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
The Co-operative Bank Plc should refund the payment to Mr O, less any amount it was able 
to recover from the receiving bank. It will also need to add 8% simple interest per annum on 
this sum from the date Mr O made the payment until the date a settlement is paid to him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman