DRN-1070310
 
The complaint
J complains about errors and delays when it applied for a business account with HSBC Bank 
Plc. It asks for compensation and an apology. J is represented by its director, who Ill refer to 
as Mrs M. 
What happened
J applied online for a business account in mid April 2019. Mrs M says she had to chase 
HSBC, there were unnecessary delays and it took more than six weeks to open the account. 
She says there were a number of errors, including delays in HSBC asking for information, 
booking an appointment without her agreement and addressing a letter incorrectly. When 
HSBC did account opening checks, the search facility it used made an error with a 
shareholders name. Mrs M says HSBC suggested she provide false information to rectify 
this.
HSBC said it made errors and paid £300 compensation. Mrs M says this isnt enough. She 
says the delays meant she missed launching her business before the summer, and so she 
lost out financially. Shed also like a written apology. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said while 
HSBC had made error and caused delays the £300 compensation it paid was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs M didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J applied for a business account with HSBC. HSBC accepts there was a delay of about three 
weeks before it dealt with Js application, due to availability of staff. 
HSBC did checks as part of its account opening process. There was an error with a 
shareholders name in its search results. HSBC asked Mrs M to provide a letter showing an 
initial shareholder with a name consistent with the search result and a current shareholder 
with the correct name. I fully understand why Mrs M wasnt prepared to do this. HSBC was 
able to verify shareholder details by a different route and it accepts it shouldnt have asked 
Mrs M for this letter.
Mrs M has also described other errors and delays and I can appreciate her frustration about 
this. It took over six weeks to open the account.
HSBC accepts it made errors here. So what I need to consider is whether the compensation 
it offered is fair and reasonable.First, I should note that the complainant here is J, the account holder. As a limited company, 
J doesnt feel upset or frustration. I cant usually award compensation to third parties  such 
as Mrs M  or for their upset.
While Mrs M says J suffered financially due to delays in it launching its business, she hasnt 
provided evidence to support this. I dont think its reasonable to require HSBC to pay 
compensation without evidence of the amount of any financial loss and that it resulted from 
delays in opening the account. 
But Js director  Mrs M  was caused inconvenience and I can require HSBC to pay 
compensation for this. I think HSBC was entitled to ask for information, such as ID 
documents for the other shareholder, and to ask Mrs M to attend an appointment to discuss 
the application. But HSBC did make errors and Mrs M had to chase it on more than one 
occasion. Overall, I think £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for 
the unnecessary inconvenience this caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I find that HSBC Bank Plc's offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman