DRN-3969794
The complaint
Miss D complains that Halifax General Insurance Services Limited mis-sold her home 
insurance cover, which included home emergency cover. She says they didnt make it clear 
that her boiler would only be covered if it was regularly serviced. And because of this the 
policy doesnt meet her needs.
What happened
Miss D bought home insurance, including home emergency cover, online through Halifax in 
2021. Her cover started in October 2021. Miss D has told us that after she took out her 
cover, she didnt receive any policy documents from Halifax. And she only became aware 
that her boiler needed to be regularly serviced, to be covered by her home emergency 
policy, when she received her renewal documents the following year.
Halifax say that before Miss D confirmed she wanted to proceed and purchase home 
insurance with them, shed have been asked if she wanted to add home emergency cover to 
her policy. And shed have seen a summary of what this covered together with a link to the 
relevant policy booklet, setting out the full terms and conditions. 
Halifax also say at the end of the sales process Miss D would have seen a page with links to 
all the documents relevant to her cover, including the Home Emergency cover policy booklet. 
And before she confirmed she wanted to proceed shed have seen the following: -
Take note
By continuing, you confirm that:
Weve provided you with important documents about your home insurance, which we 
recommend you read in full.
Youve taken care to make sure all the details youve given us are correct.
And page three of the Home Emergency policy booklet makes it clear that servicing and 
maintaining her boiler is a condition of the policy. The relevant term is: -
Your central heating boiler should be properly installed and repaired, in accordance with the 
manufacturers recommendations and serviced and maintained at least every 24 months.
Written confirmation of your last boiler service may be required in the event of a claim.
Halifax have said that in addition to the information online Miss D was sent a copy of her 
policy documentation by post. Miss D has told us she didnt receive this, but Halifax say this 
was sent to the same address as her renewal documentation which shes confirmed she did 
receive. Halifax have said that the policy booklet relating to the Home Emergency cover, 
would have been sent to Miss D by the underwriters, so they cant comment on whether this 
was sent to her.  
When Miss D received her renewal documentation in 2022, she says she realised that the 
Home Emergency cover was unsuitable for her, due to the requirement to have her boiler 
regularly serviced. She told Halifax she thought her cover had been mis-sold and she 
wanted a refund of her premium. She raised a complaint which Halifax didnt uphold. 
They said that during the online sale journey the full terms and conditions of the cover are 
provided via links she needed to click on. And after she purchased her cover, she would 
have received to separate policy documents, one for her home insurance and the other for 
her home emergency policy. 
The policy documents set out full details of her cover, and she had 14 days from receipt to 
read the information provided. Details were also included of how to cancel the policy if the 
cover wasnt suitable. And the home emergency policy confirmed that her boiler had to be 
serviced at least every 24 months. So, as shed been provided with all the relevant 
information her complaint wasnt upheld.
Miss D wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case but didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied the policy hadnt 
been mis-sold. She said she thought the exclusions in the home emergency policy were 
clear online. And even if Miss D missed the links to read the policy terms and conditions, the 
policy documents were sent to her after she completed her purchase. And these make it 
clear her boiler isnt covered if it hasnt been serviced within the last 24 months.
Halifax accepted our investigators opinion, but Miss D didnt. Miss D says Halifax didnt 
make the exclusions clear online, and they should have, as theyre extremely important. And 
she said she didnt receive the policy documents and only became aware of the need to 
have her boiler serviced when she received the renewal documentation.
She also told our investigator that no one really reads policy terms and conditions so Halifax 
should have made any exclusions clear.
The case has now come to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have provided details of the online journey Miss D would have had when she 
purchased her policy online. Im satisfied from the information theyve provided that when 
Miss D was asked if she wanted to add home emergency cover to her policy, there was a 
link for her to click on to read the full policy terms and conditions. 
These terms and conditions clearly state that Miss Ds boiler wont be covered by the policy 
unless its maintained and serviced at least every 24 months.
And before Miss D confirmed she wished to purchase her policy she was provided further 
links to all her policy documents and reminded that she should read these in full.
Miss D has said that Halifax should have made her aware of the need to have her boiler 
regularly serviced. Im satisfied that they did so by providing her with links to all the relevant 
policy documents. Im also satisfied that Halifax sent her copies of the policy documents they 
issued. 
Theyve told us that the home emergency policy would have been sent to Miss D by the underwriters. On balance given that she received all her renewal documentation, I accept 
that she also received the home emergency policy. And if she didnt, she could have 
contacted Halifax to request a copy.
Im persuaded that Miss D was provided with the relevant terms and conditions of her policy 
at the time she took out her cover. Thats what Id expect Halifax to provide. She was 
reminded during her online journey when purchasing her policy to read the terms and 
conditions, and again when her policy documents were sent to her. 
I think the need to keep her boiler serviced was set out clearly both online and in the 
documents Miss D was sent. Shes suggested that she didnt read her policy documentation, 
until Halifax contacted her about her renewal. But I cant hold Halifax responsible for this. 
They provided her with the relevant policy terms and conditions, so I wont be asking them to 
do anything more her.
My final decision
For the reasons she out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint 
about Halifax Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman