DRN-3415854
The complaint
Mr M has complained HSBC UK Bank plc, trading as first direct bank, didnt answer his call 
properly and deliberately put the phone down.
What happened
Mr M complained about three phone calls hed made to first direct on 9 September 2021. 
These were calls he made overnight and were all answered by the same customer service 
advisor. Mr M believed the advisor had deliberately acted as if they couldnt hear him and 
then cut him off.
First direct told him the evidence showed this wasnt the case. The advisor was having 
difficulty hearing Mr M and warned him that they were going to end the call. Mr M didnt 
believe this matched his recall of what happened. He brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator listened to the calls provided to us by first direct. He believed this backed up 
what first direct had told Mr M. Mr M remained unhappy and believed the advisor was 
someone hed spoken to in the past. Our investigator reviewed records of Mr Ms calls to first 
direct. These showed Mr M hadnt spoken to the same advisor at any time in the preceding 
12 months.
Still dissatisfied, Mr M has asked an ombudsman to make a decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the calls that Mr M made to first direct on 9 September. There were three of 
these. These clearly show that the advisor couldnt hear Mr M at all during the first two calls. 
There is no recording of Mr Ms voice. These calls were terminated.
Mr M called a third time. The advisor was able to hear Mr M but had to place him on hold 
and was obviously having technical problems leading to them transferring Mr M. Theres no 
evidence the advisor was disrespectful or deliberately acted in an abrupt manner towards 
Mr M. Internal call records from first direct show the advisor confirming the difficulties they 
were having.
Ive also looked at the additional evidence we got from first direct about Mr Ms call history 
over the preceding 12 months. At no stage in that period had Mr M talked to the same 
advisor as on his calls of 9 September. I appreciate his strong feelings on this issue but the 
technical evidence Ive seen doesnt back up what he says happened.
It's extremely frustrating not being able to accomplish banking tasks during the time youve 
set aside for them. This situation is obviously exacerbated when technical difficulties 
intervene. So I can absolutely understand why Mr M is adamant that hes been treated 
unfairly. But I cant see first direct has done anything wrong and I wont be asking them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against HSBC 
UK Bank plc, trading as first direct bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman