DRN-1630011
The complaint
Mrs D says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a store card.
A retailer sold the policy. The insurer, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted responsibility 
for the sale.
What happened
In August 2005 Mrs D applied for a store card. At the same time, PPI was added to the 
account. Mrs D thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 29 January 2020. I explained why, 
based on what I'd see, I didn't think this complaint should be upheld. I said I'd consider any 
comments I received by 26 February 2020. Neither Mrs D nor AXA sent me anything further 
to consider. I've therefore considered the complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
In my provisional decision I said:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
I've decided this policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mrs D would have understood she had a choice to buy 
the policy. Mrs D says that during the application nothing was highlighted or 
mentioned about PPI, and she had no idea she'd taken this out. She says she wasn't 
told that the PPI policy was optional. So I've thought about this alongside the other 
information I've seen about the sale.
AXA has provided a copy of the application form for the store card. On the form there's 
a separate section headed "Protecting your account". Beneath this heading the form 
reads:
"Account Cover (only sign this box if you require Account Cover)
"Yes I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover (subject to 
eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until 
further notice."Mrs D has signed this section of the form. For this reason, though Mrs D says PPI 
wasn't mentioned, I think it's more likely she knew she was buying PPI and chose to 
buy it, even if, after all this time, she doesn't remember doing so.
AXA didn't advise Mrs D to buy the policy - so it didn't have to make sure the policy 
was right for Mrs D. But it did need to make sure she had the information she'd need 
to work out for herself whether she wanted it.
I think it's possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the policy wasn't as clear as 
it should have been. The copy of the credit agreement I've seen includes a very brief 
description of the policy, and mentions how the cost would be calculated. I understand 
that the consumer copy of the credit agreement included further details of the benefits 
and exclusions - but as I haven't seen this I can't comment on how they'd have been 
presented to Mrs D. So I've gone on to consider whether it's likely to have affected Mrs 
D's decision to buy the policy.
I don't think this would. Mrs D agreed to buy the policy - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Though Mrs D told us that she'd get six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay if she was off work sick, she's told us she'd only been working for her 
employer for nine months at the time she took out the policy - and based on what I 
know about sick pay in her kind of employment, I think it's unlikely she'd have received 
this level of sick pay at that time.  And I think this policy would pay out in addition to 
any sick pay she got from her employer. The policy appears to have been affordable 
for Mrs D, and based on what she's told us about her circumstances it doesn't look as 
though she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So I 
think the policy would have been useful to Mrs D if anything went wrong. For these 
reasons, I don't think better information about the PPI would
have put Mrs D off taking out the cover.
I've considered everything Mrs D has said, but it doesn't change my conclusions.
I've now reviewed the complaint afresh. Neither Mrs D nor AXA have sent me anything 
further to consider. I reach the same conclusions for the same reasons.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman