DRN-2583080
The complaint
P and P complains that four direct debits shouldnt have been paid by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds).
What happened
P and P had an account with Lloyds. On 19 June 2020, four direct debits totalling £2611.57 
were due to be paid to the same beneficiary. P and P called Lloyds and said the invoices 
were disputed and asked that the debits were returned. Lloyds opened an investigation. The 
amounts were debited to the bank account. Later, on 29 June 2020, P and P said the direct 
debits were for the wrong amount and on the wrong date and they were refunded.
P and P said the direct debits shouldnt have been paid on 19 June 2020 as theyd called the 
bank to request they werent. And in any case, Lloyds shouldnt have paid them as there 
wasnt enough money in the account to pay them. As a result, they had to pay overdraft 
interest and fees.
Lloyds said that P and P had told them that they were in dispute with the beneficiary of the 
payments  and this wasnt covered by the Direct Debit Indemnity Scheme (DDIS). So, their 
claim was rejected. But they didnt make a mistake in declining the claim. They paid the 
debits  even though there wasnt enough money in the account - as each payment decision 
is made on its merits. It was ultimately up to Lloyds to decide on whether to pay or not. They 
accepted that P and P hade been passed around on the phone  and this had been 
frustrating  and therefore paid £50 for inconvenience.
P and P brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator said that Lloyds had acted 
reasonably. The direct debits were part of a dispute and therefore not covered under DDIS. 
And it was Lloyds decision to lend the money to P and P  each payment decision was 
made on its own merits. But - the advisor shouldve been clearer on the call  and said that 
the DDIS didnt cover payments where there was a dispute between P and P and their 
supplier. But, he agreed that P and P had been passed round on the phone - Lloyds 
compensation of £50 was the right amount for this.
P and P asked that their complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that P and P feel strongly about this. They wanted to stop the direct debit 
payments on 19 June 2020  and called Lloyds to ask this was done. And when they werent 
stopped, Lloyds paid them when there wasnt enough money in the account  so causing 
interest and charges to be paid.
In reviewing this case, let me say that I can only make an award if I think that Lloyds have 
made a mistake or have acted unfairly.
The direct debit guarantee scheme says that its indemnity scheme . cannot be used to 
address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.  It also says 
It protects you in the rare event that there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for 
instance if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. The 
scheme operates under these rules to ensure it operates efficiently and securely.
Ive listened to the calls that P and P made to Lloyds on 19 June 2020. P and P clearly say 
that there was a dispute with the supplier. They asked the debits arent paid.  The call 
handler took the details and said he would submit the request and there would be further 
investigation. But he also said if there had been no error, Lloyds would pay the debits. He 
said it could take ten days to resolve. So  the call handler was correct in what he said. But 
he didnt say that the direct debit guarantee scheme didnt apply in this case  which he 
should have. So, the call couldve been clearer in its conclusion.
P and P also say that the debits shouldnt have been paid because there wasnt enough 
money in the account. And in the past, theyd had direct debts returned by Lloyds because of 
lack of funds. Lloyds say that they based their decision to pay  or not to pay  on each 
individual case. They clearly saw P and P as a reasonable credit risk to pay back the 
overdraft  so they paid the debits. This was done by an automated system. P and P say 
they shouldnt have done. But I can see that P and P also used an overdraft at times 
between 3 June 2020 and 11 June 2020  so Lloyds wouldve seen that as evidence that P 
and P would pay them back  and P and P also benefitted from using an overdraft then.
P and P say they shouldnt have to pay interest and charges. But I can see that P and P had 
£13500.65 in their savings account at the time  so they couldve reduced the amount of 
bank interest by using that in the short term  although I accept that this money couldve 
been needed for other purposes.
In the event, P and P asked again on 29 June 2020 for the direct debits to be refunded 
under the indemnity scheme  and this time said they were due to an error with the date and 
amount  and they were then refunded P and Ps account. 
So  while I can see that this will be disappointing for P and P  I dont think Lloyds have 
done anything wrong here. They acted within the rules of the direct debit scheme  which 
they have to. I agree that the calls to Lloyds werent handed very well, as P and P spent a 
long time on the phone in trying to sort things out  but Lloyds have paid compensation of 
£50 for this, which I think it right.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P and P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman