DRN-1990642
The complaint
A, a retail business, has complained about the decision by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to 
decline its claim under its commercial insurance policy following a fire at its premises. A is 
represented by a loss assessor, Mr E.
What happened
In 2016, A took out a commercial insurance policy through a broker. The policy was 
underwritten by a particular insurance company.
In 2017, A took the brokers advice to renew the policy.
In 2018, the broker wrote to A in advance of the date the policy was due to renew. It said it 
was no longer offering the existing policy. It therefore recommended that A should take out 
an alternative policy with a different insurer, namely UKI. A accepted the brokers 
recommendation.
Later in 2018, outside of its opening hours, a fire broke out at As premises causing 
extensive damage to the property and the stock. A made a claim under the policy.
UKI arranged for its loss adjuster to attend the property. The loss adjuster noted that the 
entire stock had been damaged by the fire, that there was debris which needed to be 
cleared, and that A had suffered an interruption to its business. The loss adjuster also noted 
that the buildings were insured by the propertys landlord under a different policy with 
another insurer. It learned that the buildings insurer had appointed a fire investigator. The 
loss adjuster appointed its own fire investigator (who Ill call Mr M) to look into the cause of 
the fire.
After conducting enquiries, including liaising with the buildings insurers fire investigator, 
Mr M concluded that the fire had been started by a portable electric fan heater which had 
been kept below the store counter. Mr M further noted that CCTV footage showed that a few 
days before the fire, an employee of A had dismantled and reassembled the heater. He 
noted that the buildings insurers fire investigator had determined that the heaters thermal 
cut out device had operated at some point, probably due to the unit overheating, but that it 
had since been repaired with the thermal cut out device being over wired (bypassed) to 
enable the heater to operate.
UKI made enquiries with a director of A who confirmed he was aware that a portable electric 
fan heater was used at the premises and said he inherited this from the previous occupier.
UKI pointed out to A that the policy assumptions contained in the Statement of Fact (SoF) 
included an assumption about the heating of the property which did not allow for the use of 
portable electric heaters. It further pointed out that the policy contained a condition to this 
effect in the section dealing with trade contents. It said that although A had breached the 
policy assumptions and the policy condition, its underwriters had nonetheless confirmed that 
if the portable electric fan heater been disclosed, it would have been prepared to offer cover. 
However, this would have been subject to certain conditions, including that the heater would 
not be placed on combustible surfaces and would be kept clear of combustible materials. It 
said that, in these circumstances, A would still have been in breach of these conditions. It 
said that it was therefore declining the claim.
A complained to UKI about its decision. It said that its broker had not provided it with a policy 
document or schedule detailing the various conditions to which UKI had referred and that, if 
it had done so, it would have complied with these.
After speaking to the broker, UKI issued a final response letter not upholding the complaint. 
It said the broker had emailed As representative when it recommended the UKI policy and it 
had attached all the applicable documents, including the policy documents and the SoF. It 
further said that the broker also sent these documents by post directly to A. It therefore 
maintained its decision to decline the claim.
A was unhappy at UKIs decision. It referred its complaint to us. It said that the conditions 
applying to portable electric fan heaters were not present under its previous policy and these 
conditions were not brought to its attention when it took out the new policy in 2018.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that UKI had acted fairly in declining the claim.
A didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that its broker didnt highlight the difference 
between the requirements of the previous policy and the new policy. It said that if the broker 
had done so, it would have removed the portable heater from its premises.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make clear to A that this complaint is against UKI; it is not against the broker who is  
independent of UKI and was acting on behalf of A. If A considers that its broker was at fault 
in some way, it needs to complain to the broker. In this decision, however, I am simply 
considering UKIs actions.
The policy document, in the section dealing with cover for trade contents, has a list of 
conditions. These include:
8 Portable Heaters
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that no form of portable heating appliance nor any 
propane gas cylinders be kept, used or stored in Your premises.
In addition, the SoF contained a list of assumptions about the property. These included:
Your property  is heated only by gas or oil central heating, electric storage heaters, or fixed 
gas or electrical appliances or other forms of fixed heating
The SoF further stated:
This Statement of Fact is a record of information provided by you or your broker, 
intermediary or agent acting on your behalf and any assumptions made about you and/or 
your business.It went on to explain that A should check all the information in the SoF and tell its broker, 
intermediary or agent immediately if any of the information was incorrect.
UKI wasnt informed by either A or As broker that the assumptions were incorrect. 
I therefore consider it was reasonable for UKI to believe that a portable electric fan heater 
wasnt used at the property when it agreed to offer the policy.
There appears to be no dispute that the fan heater caused the fire which led to the claim.
Although UKI entered into the policy on the basis of wrong information, it didnt automatically 
void the policy. It instead asked its underwriters to confirm what would have happened if A 
had corrected the wrong assumption and mentioned the fan heater. I consider this was the 
right approach for UKI to take.
Its underwriters said that, taking into account all the circumstances, it would have offered 
cover but with the following endorsement:
W021P - Portable Space Heaters Condition
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that any portable space heater
a) is not and will not be sited in passageways and other places where they are liable to be 
overturned or subject to mechanical damage
b) is not and will not be sited on combustible floors or surfaces
c) is not and will not be sited in areas where flammable atmospheres are present
d) if operated by oil is not and will not be refilled whilst in operation
e) is and will be kept clear of combustible materials and be provided with a guard to 
maintain a space of at least one metre
UKI then checked with Mr M whether A had complied with these conditions. Mr M confirmed 
that A hadnt complied with conditions b) and e) and that this had led to the fire. It was on 
this basis that UKI therefore declined the claim.
I consider that this was a fair decision for UKI to reach. A knew there was a portable heater 
on the premises but hadnt told UKI about this even though the policy assumptions clearly 
stated that no such heater was used. UKI has shown that if it had been told of the heater, it 
would have imposed conditions with which A had failed to comply. UKI was therefore not 
liable for the damage which ensued.
A pointed out that it was unaware of any issue over the use of a portable heater because this 
hadnt been an issue under its previous policy. It says this should therefore have been 
highlighted at the time the policy was taken out, in which case it would have taken necessary 
steps to ensure compliance. However, UKI wasnt involved with the previous policy and so 
couldnt have highlighted any differences between the old and new policy. Its only 
responsibility was to ensure that A was aware of the terms and conditions of the policy it was 
offering. Overall, Im satisfied that UKI acted fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E, on behalf of 
A, to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman