DRN-3468052
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Premier account, his 
account history is as follows.
Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold Service account sometime prior to September 2001
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account in April 2007
Mr H says that he was told that he needed to upgrade his account to get a better chance of 
getting a loan.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the sale of the Gold and Premier accounts and he didnt think that 
Lloyds had mis-sold them. Mr H did not disagree with the sale of the Gold account, although 
I should say that he does not seem to have complained about it in the first place either. In 
relation to the Premier account, Mr H disagreed as he did not think that the additional 
benefits were worth the additional cost compared to the Gold account. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Hs complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind and having considered everything that Mr H and 
Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr H was given a fair choice in taking out the Premier 
account. Mr H said he thought he had to change to the Premier account in order to get a 
personal loan. I cant though see any declined applications for credit prior to this upgrade so 
I dont think that Mr H wouldve reasonably believed that upgrading to a Premier account 
was the only way to get a loan. What I think is more likely to have happened is that he was 
told that he had to upgrade to the Premier account in order to get a better or personalised 
loan rate. I can see that at the time the account was taken out one of the features of the 
Premier account was bespoke rates on personal loans (though this benefit was withdrawn 
shortly afterwards). So I think on balance what Mr H recalls is that in order to get the specific 
loan quote he was given at the time, he had to take out the Premier account, rather than he 
needed to upgrade to get any loan at all. So I think he took out the account for the benefits 
that it potentially came with rather because he was mis-led my Lloyds.
At the time the Premier account was taken out it cost £25 a month and provided Worldwide 
Travel insurance, comprehensive breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and home 
emergency cover. Importantly, it came with a £500 interest free overdraft buffer with 
preferential rates for overdrafts used above this amount.
Mr H has explained that he already held breakdown cover and travel insurance with the Gold 
account he already held and the only additional benefit on the Premier account he could use 
was the home emergency cover, which I can see he went on to use. So, given this, I need to 
establish if the Premier account was the most suitable account that Lloyds offered at the 
time that came with the benefits that Mr H says he could use or need. 
I think one of the reasons that the account was recommended to Mr H was for the 
preferential rates on personal loans. That said, if the account was solely recommended for 
the insurances that it came with, I dont think that Lloyds recommendation was 
unreasonable. I accept that he already had breakdown cover and travel insurance with the 
Gold account (though the level of cover was greater with the Premier account), but the 
Premier account was the only one that came with home emergency cover, so if it was 
recommended only for that additional benefit it was not an unreasonable recommendation. I 
accept that it is possible that Mr H couldve taken out a standalone Home Emergency policy 
elsewhere cheaper than the difference between the monthly fees of the Gold and Premier 
account. But when assessing whether Lloyds recommendation was unreasonable, I only 
need to be satisfied that Lloyds recommended an account that was a good fit for Mr Hs 
circumstances. Ultimately Lloyds highlighted an insurance need and recommended the only 
account it offered that fulfilled this need and this is all it needed to do.
Given this I think that Lloyds recommending the Premier account at the time it was taken out 
was not unreasonable. 
I accept that Mr H may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mr Hs circumstances, that 
makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Premier account, had he been 
given even more information about the benefits that the account came with.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr H mayve read 
recently about financial products being mis-sold, he may now believe that his Premier 
account was mis-sold. But based on what Mr H has said, alongside all of the available 
evidence that I have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that the Premier account 
was mis-sold in the first instance. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman