DRN-2143521
The complaint
Mr F complains about The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) and their failure to submit his claim 
for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) before the PPI deadline.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr F instructed TCG to pursue several claims for mis-sold PPI on his 
behalf. In particular, he asked TCG to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI on a mortgage he held 
with lender S.
TCG submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to lender S the following month. 
But lender S were unable to locate Mr Fs details. So, TCG obtained a new letter of authority 
(LOA) from Mr F, and submitted a second DSAR in June. Lender S responded the same 
month, again informing TCG they were unable to locate Mr Fs details.
Mr F then chased TCG for an update in July, where TCG informed Mr S they were awaiting 
a response from lender S. The PPI deadline for new claims to be submitted expired the 
following month. Mr F chased TCG in October 2019 and February 2020, where he was told 
TCG were still awaiting a response from lender S. But, at the end of February, TCG 
explained to Mr F that a response had been received in June and no further action had been 
taken. And as the deadline had expired, Mr F was no longer able to submit a claim. Mr F 
was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr F was unhappy hed missed the opportunity to claim for mis-sold PPI and the financial 
loss he may have suffered because of this. He was also unhappy that hed been given the 
incorrect information several times when chasing TCG for an update. So, he wanted TCG to 
compensate him for this.
TCG upheld Mr Fs complaint. They agreed theyd made a mistake by not realising lender S 
had responded saying they were unable to locate Mr Fs details. They agreed that if they had 
realised, it was likely they wouldve had enough time to submit a claim on Mr Fs behalf 
before the deadline. So, they offered Mr F £250 to recognise this loss of opportunity. But Mr 
F was unhappy with this and didnt think it took into consideration the amount he may have 
received from a successful claim, or the mis-information TCG provided.
TCG looked at Mr Fs complaint again, and agreed theyd failed to advise Mr F correctly on 
several occasions. They explained this was down to lack of training and experience. So, they 
offered Mr F a further £150 to recognise this, bringing the total compensation amount to 
£400. But Mr F didnt think this was enough. As Mr F remained unhappy, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He agreed that TCGs error 
had resulted in Mr F missing the opportunity to make a PPI claim. And he agreed that TCG 
had mis-advised Mr F more than once and recognised the upset this wouldve caused. But 
he explained were unable to speculate on whether any claim Mr F made wouldve been 
successful. So, he couldnt say Mr F had suffered a financial loss. Because of this, he 
thought the total offer TCG made of £400 was a fair one, which recognise Mr Fs loss of 
opportunity and the upset the mis-information created. 
Mr F didnt agree. He didnt think the £400 was enough to recognise the consistent errors 
TCG made when giving him the wrong information. And he thought these errors were pre-
meditated rather than simple human error. As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset the complaint has caused Mr F. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been both upsetting and frustrating to realise hed missed the opportunity to claim for mis-
sold PPI. Especially when hed been told on several occasions that his claim was 
progressing. And I can understand why Mr F would question the intentions of TCG after hed 
been given the wrong information by different people on different calls. Im aware TCG have 
also recognised their errors, and the impact this caused, and made an offer to Mr F to 
compensate him for this. So, Ive considered whether I think the offer they made is fair.
TCG offered a total amount of £400 to recognise their errors, and the impact this had on Mr 
F. But Mr F doesnt think this is enough to recognise his potential financial loss or the upset 
he was caused after realising hed been given the wrong information on several occasions.
Its not in dispute that TCG failed to submit Mr Fs claim before the PPI deadline. So, Mr F 
has lost the opportunity to make a claim and see whether it wouldve been successful. But 
Im unable to say for certain that Mr Fs claim wouldve been upheld, or that any PPI he may 
have had on his account with lender L was mis-sold. Even if PPI was located on Mr Fs 
account, this doesnt mean his claim wouldve been upheld by lender L. So, Im unable to 
say that Mr F has lost out financially and I cant consider this as part of any compensation 
amount I think is fair. 
But I do think Mr F has lost the opportunity to make a claim. And I think losing his ability to 
receive a response to his PPI claim wouldve been very upsetting for Mr F. TCG offered 
£250 to recognise this part of his complaint and this offer is one that falls in line with what I 
wouldve offered had it not been made. So, I think this offer is a fair one and I dont think it 
would be fair for me to direct TCG to do anything further for this aspect of Mr Fs complaint.
Its also not in dispute that TCG advised Mr F correctly on calls held in July and October 
2019, and February 2020. 
Ive listened to these calls and they led Mr F to believe TCG were awaiting a response from 
lender L. And on the call in July, Ive heard that the advisor paused the call to speak to a 
senior member of staff before providing the incorrect update. Mr F thinks this shows that it 
wasnt a lack of training that caused TCGs error, despite TCGs explanation.
And I can understand why Mr F would think this. But I dont think TCG have purposely lied to 
Mr F. TCG operate on a no win no fee basis, meaning their income is generated purely 
from making successful claims to lenders on a customers behalf. So, I dont think its likely that TCG would purposefully prevent Mr F from making claim as this would mean they were 
purposefully preventing themselves from the opportunity to claim a success fee.
But thats not to say TCGs error wasnt made worse by the fact it was made repeatedly. 
TCG mis-advised Mr F on 4 occasions and I wouldve expected TCG to have realised their 
error much sooner. So, I think the number of times they provided the incorrect information to 
Mr F added to the upset Mr F felt after being told his claim hadnt been submitted and should 
be reflected in the compensation awarded.
TCG offered an additional £150 to reflect this upset. And I think this amount falls in line with 
the amount I wouldve awarded had it not been made. So, I think the offer is a fair one and I 
dont think it would be fair for me to direct TCG to do anything more.
So, I think the total amount of £400 TCG have offered is fair, and I dont think that need to do 
anything more. I understand this isnt the outcome Mr F was looking for. And I appreciate 
why Mr F feels this amount doesnt cover the losses he feels hes suffered. But I hope my 
decision explains why these potential losses cant be considered by our service, and why the 
compensation offered by TCG is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about The Claims Guys 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman