DRN-3349796
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the replacement flooring fitted after she claimed under her home 
insurance with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).
What happened
Mrs D successfully claimed under her home insurance after an escape of water from her 
radiator damaged her floor. Lloyds appointed contractors to fit new wooden flooring. Mrs D 
pointed out the flooring was marked and didnt fit properly, but she said the fitter was rude 
and just left.
After she complained to Lloyds, it arranged an inspection of the flooring and agreed with Mrs 
D that it wasn't satisfactory. Lloyds said it would replace the flooring.
From here, Mrs D complained about delays, repeat visits, and Lloyds failure to contact her 
with updates. Lloyds agreed that it hadnt handled the matter well and paid £200 
compensation. A few weeks later, it paid a further £100 for additional shortfalls in service.
Mrs D didnt think the compensation went far enough and she complained Lloyds wouldnt 
arrange for a different fitter to replace her floor. Lloyds said it would arrange for a different 
floor fitter.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Lloyds had made a fair offer of 
compensation to acknowledge its shortfalls and it had already agreed to arrange for a 
different fitter to replace the flooring.
Mrs D didnt agree. She said the compensation was for having to phone constantly to get the 
floor sorted out and for unnecessary repeat visits from contractors. Mrs D said during that 
time she couldnt enjoy use of her home and she went on to say there were further delays for 
which she thought Lloyds should compensate her.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs D will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, I must point out that my decision is about events which happened up to 15 
September 2021 which is the date of Lloyds final response letter to Mrs Ds complaint. I 
wont be addressing any issues or delays after that date, and I understand that Mrs D knows 
theyd be covered in a separate complaint. 
The main issue of complaint is not in dispute  the replacement floor wasn't fitted properly, 
and it was marked. So, Ive looked at what Lloyds did to put matters right and whether it was 
enough.
In the circumstances, Id expect Lloyds to inspect the flooring to see whether it was 
damaged and fitted badly. If so, Id expect it to arrange replacement. Looking at the 
evidence, Lloyds has done both of these things. Id also expect Lloyds to take action 
promptly and without unnecessary delays. However, I understand that Mrs D found it 
necessary to repeatedly contact Lloyds to chase progress because she was experiencing 
delays and taking time off work for additional visits.
I can see that Lloyds acknowledged it hadnt handled the matter well and offered Mrs D a 
total of £300 compensation. It said the compensation was to acknowledge the badly fitted 
floor; the distress and inconvenience caused; time off work; the need to chase progress, and 
its lack of response.
Lloyds also accepted that Mrs D didnt want the same fitter to replace her flooring, so it 
agreed to arrange for a different contractor.
Taking into consideration that all of this couldve been avoided if Lloyds had fit the floor 
correctly first-time round, so this isnt inconvenience one might expect following a claim, I 
agree that compensation is warranted. While Mrs D doesnt think its enough, Im satisfied 
that £300 is a fair amount and in line with what Id have awarded had Lloyds not already 
done so. I see no reason for Lloyds to increase its offer.
Although Mrs D said Lloyds wouldnt send a different fitter, I can see that it did agree with 
her request and made appropriate arrangements with the contractors. Therefore, I cant 
agree that Lloyds refused to meet Mrs Ds reasonable requests. I wont be requiring anything 
more of Lloyds in respect of this point.
Overall, while Lloyds didnt handle the matter of the replacement flooring as well as it ought 
to have done, Im satisfied that it made a fair and reasonable offer to put matters right. I 
wont be asking Lloyds to do any more, here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman