DRN-4011395
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax moved money out of her ISA by 
mistake and without her authority.
What happened
Mrs S holds an ISA and a current account with Halifax. The ISA is and always has been held 
in Mrs Ss sole name. The current account had been held jointly between Mrs S and a 
relative but, following the relatives passing, it has been held in her sole name. She says it 
effectively became the executors account for her relatives estate.
In March 2021, Mrs S wrote to Halifax and asked it to transfer the balance of her relatives 
savings account into the current account. The transfer took place on 29 March. At around 
the same time, nearly £40,000 was transferred from Mrs Ss ISA into the current account. A 
few days later, the recently credited interest was also transferred from the ISA.
Mrs S only found out that the funds had been transferred when she received a statement for 
her ISA in 2022 and queried the balance with Halifax. She says that the ISA funds were her 
own money and had nothing to do with her relatives estate. She says she didnt authorise 
the transfers and had no reason to take funds out of her ISA, as it meant she lost out on 
interest as well as losing the ISA status of those funds.
Halifax told Mrs S that the funds had been transferred online. But Mrs S says she didnt 
make the transfers. She says they were made by Halifax, by mistake and without 
instructions. She complained to Halifax, but it said that the transfers had been made using 
online banking. It acknowledged that Mrs S didnt think she had made the transfers. But it 
said she must have made them by mistake without realising.
Mrs S wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and pointed out that there were a number of 
errors in its response letter. She said she hadnt ever asked for her ISA to be registered for 
online banking as she always gives instructions about it in writing. She said she didnt know 
that she could use online banking for her ISA. She was sure that the transfers were made by 
Halifax by mistake when it was dealing with her late relatives accounts. She said this had 
serious consequences because the Inheritance Tax payable on her relatives estate was 
based on the balance of the current account. This balance was wrongly inflated by the 
inclusion of the ISA funds and she says the estate paid too much Inheritance Tax as a result. 
She also says that too much money was paid out to the beneficiaries.
Halifax apologised for the errors in its letter and sent Mrs S a cheque for £100 for the upset 
and frustration they caused. But it maintained that it had no involvement in the transfer of 
funds from her ISA.
Mrs S remained unhappy with the situation and brought the complaint to this service. She 
said she had recovered the overpaid Inheritance Tax but had significantly overpaid a 
beneficiary. She is adamant that she didnt transfer the funds from her ISA and that Halifax 
did it. But Halifax says its Bereavement Team only dealt with the closing of Mrs Ss relatives 
savings account. It says it had no reason to transfer funds from Mrs Ss sole ISA and that 
there is no indication in the notes it holds that the team took any action in relation to the ISA. 
It maintains that Mrs S made the transfer online by mistake.
Our Investigator didnt think Halifax needed to do any more here. But Mrs S didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue here is whether the transfer of funds from the ISA was made by Halifax or not. 
Mrs S says it was. Halifax says it wasnt. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, 
as some of it is here, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S, but Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs S called Halifax on 28 March 2021. Ive listened to the recording of this call, which Mrs S 
made because she had lost the password for her online banking. Halifaxs agent sent a 
temporary password to Mrs Ss phone and stayed on the line while she logged in. Halifax no 
longer has the online banking log from March 2021, which would show exactly when Mrs S 
logged in. But, based on this call, Im satisfied that she logged into online banking on 28 
March.
The ISA funds were credited to the current account on 29 March. But the evidence shows 
that the transfer was initiated on 28 March around 15 minutes after the call Ive referred to 
above.
Mrs S says she didnt know she could operate her ISA online and had never done so, 
preferring to give instructions in writing. But I find that the ISA did have online access. So, 
once Mrs S was logged into her online banking, I think the ISA would have been available to 
view and she would have had the option to make transactions on that account.
Information from Halifaxs system about the transfers from Mrs Ss ISA includes an 
originating branch sort code and employee file number. These numbers are the same for 
the transfer of the ISA balance on 28 March and the transfer of the interest a few days later. 
Halifax says that the sort code used here is the number for its processing centre. It says that 
transactions which are made online are given this code. As to the employee file number 
applied to both transactions, Halifax says it isnt actually an employee number. It says that 
the mix of numbers and letters in the code used here confirms that they were online 
transactions. 
Ive seen the equivalent information for the transfer of funds from Mrs Ss relatives savings 
account to the current account on 29 March. Its accepted that this transfer was made by 
Halifax, in line with Mrs Ss instructions. Im satisfied that the sort code and employee file 
number allocated to this transaction are both different from the codes applied when money 
was transferred from Mrs Ss ISA. The information about the transfer from the relatives 
account also includes a teller number, whereas the ISA transfers do not. I find that this 
supports Halifaxs position that it didnt transfer the funds from the ISA. 
So does the fact that the entry on the current account statement for the transactions is 
different. The credit of funds from the relatives savings account is described on the 
statement as a deposit. The two credits from the ISA are described as transfers and the descriptions include the date they were initiated. So, I find that the transfers from the ISA 
were made by a different method from the transfer of funds from the relatives account.
Mrs S is adamant that she didnt make the transfers from her ISA. I dont have all the 
information to explain exactly what happened here. But, on balance, I think its likely that the 
transfers from the ISA were made online from Mrs Ss online banking facility. I know Mrs S 
feels strongly about this. But, from the available evidence, I cant conclude that Halifax made 
these transfers. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything here. 
When Halifax responded to Mrs Ss complaint, it sent her a cheque for £100 to apologise for 
the mistakes in its previous letter. I understand that the cheque hasnt been cashed yet. It 
remains open to Mrs S to do so if she now wishes to accept this payment. But, for the 
reasons above, Im not going to ask Halifax to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman