DRN-3464451
The complaint
Mr B complains that the book costs of his stocks held in his account with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC are inaccurate. He also complains about the time taken for Barclays to look into this. 
Mr B is represented by his son, who is also referred to as Mr B. For ease of reference, all 
references to Mr B (the complainant) will include submissions and evidence provided by his 
son acting on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr B holds an investment account with Barclays on its Smart Investor (SI) platform. This is 
an execution only share dealing service. 
In 2018, 217 shares were transferred to Mr B from his late wifes account. In November 2019 
Mr B noticed that most of the book values (the price originally paid for the shares) were 
lower than he expected. Mr B used the information available to him from the Barclays 
website and statements from both his and his wifes account, to calculate what he thought 
was the correct book value.
In December 2019, Mr B complained to Barclays as he was unhappy with the difference in 
book values between what he received and what was showing on its website. He asked if 
the book values on his account could be amended to reflect the calculations he had carried 
out for each investment. 
Barclays replied to Mr Bs concerns in its initial final response letter dated 24 February 2020. 
Barclays explained when accounts were moved to the SI platform its system used a more 
complicated algorithm which was designed to try and provide a more accurate reflection of 
the purchase costs. It explained how its book costs were calculated. And said that the book 
costs transferred from Mr Bs wifes account were not transferred to his account, as he 
hadnt placed the purchases. Whilst it reviewed how Mr B had calculated the book costs, it 
explained that it works out its book costs differently and didnt agree it had done anything 
wrong. 
Further correspondence ensued. In May 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr B explaining it would try 
and have the book costs updated to reflect Mr Bs calculations. It confirmed that it cannot 
change the way it calculates the book costs, but it may be possible to update the system to 
reflect the values Mr B thinks should be on his account. Barclays also asked Mr B to re-
calculate his investments as it had been some time since he last provided his calculations. 
Unfortunately, Mr B didnt receive this information request for three months until August 
2020. Barclays then re-sent him the email on his request. Mr Bs revised calculations were 
provided to Barclays in August 2020 and again in September 2020. 
Barclays issued a follow up final response letter in February 2021. It apologised for the 
length of time it had taken to look into things. Barclays confirmed it would not be possible to 
amend the book cost values because it was no longer its practice to change these. And it 
has no option to amend them manually. However, it paid Mr B £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience its delay in getting back to him had caused. 
Mr B remained unhappy so referred his complaint to this service. But our investigator said 
Barclays offer of compensation was enough to put things right, so he wasnt going to ask it to 
do anything more. Mr B disagreed, in short, he remains of the view that he wants the book 
values to be amended and would like £1,000 compensation for the trouble and upset 
Barclays has caused overall. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be asking Barclays to do more to put things right, Ill explain why. 
Before I do so, I want to note that Ive carefully considered the detailed submissions that 
Mr B has provided. I can confirm that Ive read his submissions in their entirety. However, 
I do hope Mr B doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to each 
submission or every point he has raised. The purpose of my decision is to explain my 
findings on the issues I consider key in the complaint. 
I think the crux of this complaint stems from the book cost values displayed on Mr Bs 
account. Mr B thinks they are inaccurate and would like Barclays to update them to bring the 
values in line with his calculations. 
Barclays has said, its calculations take into account the total value for all purchases and 
sales on the account. Book costs are calculated taking an average share price of each time 
the shares were purchased, this is then multiplied by the total quantity of shares to give the 
estimated book cost. Barclays has said its book costs are provided as a guide only, but it will 
always endeavour to provide the most accurate costs associated with the investments. 
I understand why there is a difference in Mr Bs calculations and the way Barclays calculates 
its book costs. Barclays calculations dont take into account Scrip dividend payments 
received  as explained on the SI website, when companies issue Scrip dividends, it means 
they are giving investors the option to receive additional shares instead of a cash dividend. 
Whilst Barclays dont include this it does include dividend re-investments and it told this 
service that Mr Bs calculations include Scrip dividends. 
Taking all of this into account, I cant fairly say that Barclays has done anything wrong. The 
methods in calculating book costs are different but this doesnt mean Barclays has made an 
error in its calculations. Or that it must use the same basis for its calculations at Mr B.
Mr B has said it is the book costs that were transferred from his late wifes account which are 
incorrect. But the discrepancy has arisen because Barclays does not include transfer shares 
in the book costs calculation. On balance, whilst I empathise with Mr Bs frustration, I am 
satisfied the explanations provided by Barclays for the differences are reasonable. 
Barclays has told us that it could previously make amendments to book costs. But this has 
changed because it is no longer possible as it caused further account errors when trying to 
make amendments. A business decision has been made and so it is no longer in a position 
to make changes to the book costs recorded on Mr Bs SI account and its customers alike. Its generally a matter for Barclays  in the exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  
how it runs its business. It isnt for our service to tell it how to do this, so I cant reasonably 
interfere with Barclays business decision to change the way it does things particularly, as it 
said, it was done to avoid further errors. 
Nonetheless, Mr B was incorrectly informed that it may be possible to update the book costs 
on the account and I think it took Barclays a long time to inform him this wasnt, in fact, 
possible. It took Barclays several months to confirm this and because of the delay, Barclays 
offered Mr B £250 compensation. I think this offer is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances as Barclays failed to properly manage his expectation. 
Ive also borne in mind that Mr B is being represented, and whilst I appreciate his 
representative says he should be compensated for the time and effort he has put into 
dealing with this complaint, as he is not the eligible complainant, I cant make an award to 
him for this. So, I think the £250 reasonably and fairly compensates Mr B himself, for the 
distress and inconvenience this has caused him. 
For all these reasons, whilst I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman