DRN-3272465
The complaint
Mr B complains that UK Insurance Ltd will only pay £3,700 of his claim for over £10,000 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B has a home insurance underwritten by UKI. This includes additional cover for personal 
possessions if theyre lost or damaged outside the home.
In October 2021 Mr Bs partner lost items of jewellery worth over £10,000. Mr B made a 
claim under the personal possessions section of his policy He was told the maximum he 
could claim was £3,700. 
Mr B raised a formal complaint as he felt hed never been advised of this maximum claim 
amount, and it wasnt clear on his policy schedule.
UKI rejected Mr Bs complaint. They agreed the schedule didnt explicitly state that he had 
£3,700 of cover for personal possessions. 
But they said it did clearly show that he had £24,760 of cover in total and that £21,060 of this 
amount was for items kept in a bank. This left £3,700 of cover for items such as jewellery 
carried on the person.
Mr B brought the complaint to this service and our investigator looked into it. They decided 
UKI hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He wants UKI to settle 
the claim in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has held the same policy for over 10 years. Theres no dispute that he received the 
terms and conditions and other policy documents at the time of inception and/or at renewal.
I have considered whether the renewal schedule for the period of the loss makes clear what 
Mr B is covered for. I know it will be disappointing for Mr B, but I dont agree that it was 
misleading. Ill explain why.
Under the heading YOUR POLICY COVERS and Section 3 - Personal Possessions the 
sum insured is shown to be £24,760.
In the same section, the amount (of that total of £24,760) to cover Specified items as 
detailed below is clearly shown as £21,060. 
A little lower down on the same page of the schedule under the heading SPECIFIED 
ITEMS, the amount of £21,060 is clearly listed to cover Items Held In Bank Custody.
Therefore, I believe its very clear that the £24,760 includes the £21,060 of cover for items 
held in bank custody. And so, £3,700 of cover remains for other personal possessions. 
I note that the items held in bank custody are only covered away from the bank if UKI have 
given explicit consent for this. The policy booklet (p.21) says:
Youre covered for
Items in a bank
We will pay for accidental loss of or damage to items listed on your schedule as 
being in a bank or safe deposit box.
We will also cover items when they are taken out of the bank or safe deposit box if 
we have agreed that they can be temporarily taken out.
Theres no suggestion here that Mr B sought UKIs agreement to taking the jewellery in 
question out of the bank.
The amount of cover for personal possessions (in and out of the bank) in Mr Bs case 
werent set by the policy  theyre not in the policy terms. Theyre in the policy schedule, 
which sets out what Mr B told UKI he wanted to be covered when he took out  and renewed 
 the policy. 
So, Im satisfied Mr B must have wanted this amount of cover when he purchased the policy. 
UKI acted on his instructions and then reflected back to Mr B what hed asked for when they 
sent him the schedule (at inception and renewal). Mr B said he had £24,760 of personal 
possessions to be covered. And he said that of those personal possessions, items worth 
£21,060 were kept in a bank.
Im sure Mr B will understand that the premium UKI charged for his policy was calculated on 
the basis of the information he provided to them. Valuable personal possessions kept in a 
bank are at considerably less risk than personal possessions worn or carried outside the 
home. So, the premium to cover items kept in a bank will be lower.
When Mr B told UKI that he had £24,760 worth of personal possessions he wanted to be 
covered, but £21,060 worth of those possessions were kept in a bank, they calculated his 
premium accordingly.  
The schedule correctly reflects that Mr B has £24,760 of personal possessions cover, 
£21,060 of which is held in bank custody. And thats the cover Mr B told UKI he wanted.
UKI are therefore entitled to conclude that Mr B has only £3,700 of personal possessions 
outside the bank  and so at greater risk. And theyre entitled to conclude that was  or 
should have been  very clear to Mr B. That being the case, its not unfair or unreasonable 
for them to limit their cover of Mr Bs claim to £3,700.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman