DRN-3655234
The complaint
Mr W says Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited provided poor service when he 
made a claim on his car insurance policy and didnt compensate him enough for its failings. 
What happened
When Mr Ws car was stolen and recovered with damage to its tracker and locks, he told LV 
it would need to go to his dealership garage. LV said if it didnt go to one of the approved 
repairers in its network, Mr W wouldnt get a courtesy car. The car went to a dealership 
garage on 27 October 2021, so Mr W didnt get a replacement car. His vehicle wasnt 
returned until 12 January 2022. Mrs W had to travel to work by bus, which cost £5.85 per 
day. The contact from LV and the garage was poor, so Mrs W had to make calls to them that 
shouldnt have been necessary. 
In December 2021 LV issued a final response letter upholding Mr Ws complaint. It accepted 
that a hire car should have been provided and pointed out that it had offered one to him on 
18 December 2021. LV raised the £50 compensation it had initially proposed to £300. That 
sum covered bus travel (£216.45) plus £83.55 for distress and inconvenience. On 12 
January 2022 LV told Mrs W that the compensation for being without a car up to that date 
was £770 and that a further £10 per day would be paid until the car was returned from the 
garage. LV issued a second final response letter on 13 January 2022 (as Mr W had 
complained about delays in paying the initial £300, plus delays in the repairs). It offered him 
£840 (£10 per day for the 84 days of not having a car) plus a further £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience (£183.55 in total). 
Mr W said it would have cost LV far more than it was offering in compensation had it paid for 
hire from the start. He thought it would be fair for LV to waive the £450 policy excess, as a 
gesture of goodwill. And he wanted LV to provide training for its staff. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint. He said LV had accepted that it had 
made errors and had offered reasonable compensation for them. He said we werent able to 
instruct LV to train its staff, but that we expected it would have provided feedback. Mr W said 
LV would have been more proactive had it been paying for hire from the start. He didnt think 
the investigator appreciated the amount of stress caused by it to him and Mrs W.
As there was no agreement, I reviewed the case. I said I was minded to conclude that LV 
shouldnt have to pay Mr W the money it had saved on car hire - and that the policy excess 
thats payable in every claim shouldnt be waived. But I thought it would be reasonable for 
LV to pay Mr W £350 in total for distress and inconvenience (a further £164.45). 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional view. Mr and Mrs W said theyd been 
advised by a motoring organisation that LV should have compensated them by paying £20 a 
day for the time they were without a car. But LV said it shouldnt have to pay any more. It 
said as it had continued to pay £10 per day after 18 December 2022 (when Mr and Mrs W 
declined the offer of a replacement car  an offer which remained open) it had paid them 
£1,023.55 in total. LV said the extra sum amounted to more than the sum Id proposed. 
After due consideration, I issued a further provisional decision along the following lines:
I said we think £10 per day is a reasonable sum for insurers to pay to reflect the 
inconvenience of the loss of use of a car, so LV shouldnt be required to pay more 
than that daily rate.
In the light of LVs comments, I said Id reviewed the sums it offered to Mr W at 
various points, and the total sum it paid. And Id also looked again at LVs offer of a 
replacement car on 18 December 2021 and the sum it paid after that date. On 
reflection, I said I thought LV could reasonably have decided not to make further 
payments once its offer was declined, especially when the offer remained open. 
I said although the sum LV paid in compensation for general distress and 
inconvenience was only £183.55, the £10 per day loss of use payment is meant to 
compensate consumers for the inconvenience of not having a car. I noted that in 
December 2021, LV offered to pay £10 per day from 28 October 2021  and it 
continued to pay that sum until 19 January 2022, when the car was returned.  
Taking into account the extra sum paid by LV after 18 December 2021 (£320) for the 
inconvenience of not having a car (and given that Mr and Mrs W had declined the 
ongoing offer of one) I said I was now minded to conclude that LV shouldnt have to 
pay a further sum in compensation. 
LV accepted my provisional findings. Mr W said wed only helped the business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any substantive comments on my provisional findings, theres no 
reason to depart from them. I can assure Mr W that I considered all the points he made 
previously - as well as those made by LV - in reaching my final decision. But as I concluded 
that LV had made a reasonable attempt to put matters right, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
15 September 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman