DRN-2735772
The complaint
The estate of Mr E complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold the late 
Mr E a Guaranteed Over 50 Plan (the Plan). 
The estate of Mr E is represented by his son, also Mr E. So, for ease Ill refer to Mr E 
throughout this decision. Ownership of the Plan  including the sales process, has been 
taken over by Aviva. So, Ill reference Aviva throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr Es father took out the Plan in 2002. In January 2020 Mr E discovered his father had paid 
more in premiums than what the Plan would pay out. Mr Es father sadly passed away in 
April 2020. 
Mr E complained to Aviva. It said the Plan had been sold to his father on a non-advised 
basis, with the relevant literature provided to him so he could apply for the Plan and decide if 
the terms were suitable. 
Mr E was unhappy with Avivas response and referred the complaint to this service. He 
maintained Aviva had mis-sold the Plan to his father, who he said was vulnerable and not of 
sound mind at the time, having just lost his wife. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said the evidence 
suggested Aviva didnt advise Mr Es father about the suitability of the Plan  rather he 
chose to take it out on a non-advised basis. And in doing so, our investigator said it was 
Mr Es fathers responsibility to consider the Plan documents to decide for himself if it met his 
needs. 
Our investigator was satisfied the documentation Aviva provided to Mr Es father wasnt 
misleading or unclear. And that he was told he could end up paying more into the Plan than 
the amount payable on death. She was also satisfied Mr Es father was made aware of the 
option to cancel the Plan and couldve sought advice if he was unsure of how the Plan 
worked. Our investigator provided Mr E with a copy of the acceptance request form 
completed by Mr Es father, as well as an example covering letter and key features 
document. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigator and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his 
complaint. He said some of his fathers details were printed on the acceptance request form 
and questioned how this was done if his father had not spoken with anyone at Aviva to 
discuss the suitability of the Plan or been coerced into taking it out. Mr E also wanted to 
understand more about Avivas takeover of the ownership of the Plan. 
Mr E was concerned about the culture of mis-sale around the time his father took the Plan 
out  and how his father wouldve been vulnerable to such practices. He wanted 
reassurance his father hadnt been taken advantage of. Mr E also mentioned similarities 
between this case and the mis-sale of Payment Protection Insurance (PPI), and asked 
whether the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) would be looking into the mis-sale of over 
50s plans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I want to offer my condolences to Mr E and his family for the loss of his 
father. And assure him that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly 
difficult time for the family, and I dont want to add to their distress. But as Ill go on to 
explain, I dont think Aviva treated Mr Es father unfairly.  
Ive looked at and considered all the evidence Mr E and Aviva have provided  and Id like to 
assure him that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, 
but to focus instead on whats important to the outcome.
Mr E has talked about more wide spread concerns around how similar over 50s plans are 
sold and has compared his fathers situation to the mis-selling of PPI. I should explain that 
we look at each case on its own individual merits. It wouldnt be possible to compare how 
other businesses may have treated other customers when selling different insurance policies 
 and then use that as a basis to decide if Mr Es father was treated fairly. 
I should also add that as an informal dispute resolution service, its not our role to comment 
on any regulatory action the FCA may or may not chose to take. 
Ive seen limited documentary evidence from the time the Plan was sold to Mr Es father. 
Thats not unusual given the passing of time. But Aviva has provided us with a copy of the 
acceptance request form and an example of the covering letter and key features document 
Mr Es father is likely to have been sent with the form, which explains how the Plan worked. 
Mr E has said just because we dont have any specific evidence the Plan was mis-sold, that 
doesnt mean it wasnt. I understand the point Mr E is making, but where the evidence is 
incomplete, I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider 
is most likely to have happened - in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances. 
Looking first at the sales process  Aviva says it gave no advice to Mr Es father about the 
suitability of the Plan. Mr E has questioned this, given it was Avivas predecessor who sold 
the Plan, not Aviva, and because some of his fathers details were printed on the acceptance 
request form he was sent to complete.
As Ive mentioned above, Aviva took over all the responsibilities of the business that sold 
Mr Es father the Plan. That transfer has no bearing on the specifics of Mr Es complaint. 
Avivas said none of its representatives advised Mr Es father on the suitability of the Plan  
but in line with the terms of the transfer, this refers to the business who administered the 
Plan in 2002. So, Ive no reason to believe the transfer of business changes Avivas position 
that Mr Es father was sold the plan on a non-advised basis. 
I can understand why Mr E thinks his fathers details being printed on the acceptance form 
suggests Aviva had more of a role in the sales process than its claiming. Its not disputed 
that Mr Es father contacted Aviva to apply for the Plan. And the example letter Ive seen 
thanks the customer for requesting information about the Plan and the need to complete the 
enclosed acceptance form. For this information to be sent to Mr Es father, he wouldve needed to provide his name and address, and presumably his date of birth  to show his 
eligibility for the Plan. And so, on balance, I dont consider it unusual for that information to 
be printed on the acceptance form sent to Mr Es father to complete. Nor do I think it 
suggests Aviva pressured Mr Es father into taking the Plan out. 
As our investigator said, Mr Es father wouldve had the opportunity to cancel the Plan once 
hed fully considered all the documentation. Ive no reason to believe Mr Es father didnt 
receive the written documentation Ive seen about the Plan. Im satisfied those documents 
wouldve given him enough information on how the Plan worked  and the financial risks - to 
allow him to make an informed decision on whether to proceed with the sale. I appreciate 
Mr Es point about his fathers vulnerability and not being of sound mind at the time, but I 
dont think Aviva misled him or did anything wrong here. 
I know Mr E feels strongly that his father was taken advantage of, and I can totally 
understand why hes wanted to pursue this complaint as he has. But taking everything into 
account, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong or treated Mr Es father unfairly. So, I 
wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman