DRN-4494235
The complaint
Ms R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money she lost as part of an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms R fell victim to an investment scam in April 2022 after she 
was contacted by a broker Terra Markets (the scammer). 
She was encouraged to invest, and accounts were opened in her name with several 
cryptocurrency platforms and electronic money institutions, as well as an account with 
Monzo, which she was told were all needed for trading. Ms R then made several payments 
from her Monzo account to her crypto/Wise accounts between 20-24 May 2022. The funds 
Ms R sent to these accounts were then transferred on again to the scammer. 
Ms R later realised she had been scammed and reported the fraud to Monzo, but it refused 
to refund the money she lost as it said she had authorised the payments. Unhappy with this, 
Ms R referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. She didnt think there was anything more 
Monzo could have done to prevent the scam, as Ms R did not give honest answers when it 
questioned her about the payments. Ms R disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Ms R says that she didnt authorise the payments made from her Monzo account as they 
were made by the scammer who was trading on her behalf. So, Ive considered whether 
theres enough evidence to suggest that Ms R authorised the payments.
The Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) 2017 say that a payment transaction is authorised 
by the payer where they have given their consent to the execution to the payment 
transaction. Such consent must be given in the form and in accordance with the procedure 
agreed between the payer and the payment service provider.
I understand that Ms R may not have physically made the payments herself. And I 
understand Ms R has said she was pressured into authorising the payments from her phone 
by the scammer, who was initiating the payments via remote access software. 
The PSRs 2017 do allow for payment transactions to be initiated by someone acting on 
behalf of the account holder, which can be agreed informally (e.g. by the account holder 
asking or permitting a third party to undertake a task on their behalf). And if the account 
holder has permitted a third party to appear as if they have the consumers authority to make 
payment transactions, those payment transactions will likely be authorised, even in 
situations where the consumer didnt ask the third party to make payments or know about 
them.
In this instance, Im satisfied Ms R was aware that payments were being made on her behalf 
and knew that the scammer was transferring money out of her Monzo account. Indeed, she 
even spoke to Monzo about these payments at the time and didnt say that she hadnt 
authorised them.
I have therefore treated all of the disputed payments as having been authorised by Ms R. 
And the starting position in this scenario is that firms ought to follow the instructions given by 
their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed, with Ms R being 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Ms R from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character.
Its common ground that the payments Ms R made were from her Monzo account were 
considered unusual as they prompted interventions from the bank  such as the transfers 
she made on 21 and 24 May 2022  where Monzo blocked the payments in order to make 
further enquiries through its in-app chat. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank 
went far enough in all the circumstances with its interventions. 
Having seen transcripts of the conversations Monzo had with Ms R, I can see it asked her 
whether anyone had contacted her and was asking her to move the money, to which she 
said they were not, despite this being untrue. Monzo also questioned why she was 
transferring money to her Wise account just to transfer it on again to her Revolut account. 
Ms R expressed her dissatisfaction with being questioned about what she was doing and 
explained that her crypto platform didnt allow withdrawals to Revolut accounts, which was 
why she opened a Monzo account so she could receive the funds. 
Monzo asked Ms R to provide evidence of her Wise account to show it was in her name, in 
response to which she provided a screenshot. The bank noticed that she might have been 
sharing her screen with someone as there was a red banner appearing across the top of the 
screen, so it asked if anyone had told her download any remote access software. Ms R 
misleadingly told Monzo that they hadnt and explained that she was recording her own 
screen to keep a record of the conversations she was having with Monzo. 
Having considered Monzos interactions with Ms R, I accept that it could have probed further 
into the reason she was making the payments to her crypto wallet. She told it she was 
budgeting her funding, for example, but it failed to get to the bottom of what this meant or 
how she came across the investment. But even if Monzo had probed further into the 
circumstances of the investment, Im not persuaded it would have received upfront an 
honest answers in response, as it didnt when it asked Ms R if anyone else was involved, or 
whether she had downloaded remote access software. Im also aware that Ms R was not 
honest with her other banks that were involved in the scam when she was questioned further 
about what she was doing. I appreciate that she was being coached and pressured by the 
scammer about what to say, but it suggests she wouldve continued to mislead the bank at 
the scammers instruction. I note that Monzo did also tell Ms R that it thought she might be 
falling victim to a scam, but she just expressed her dissatisfaction with the bank for 
preventing her from making the payments, which even led to a complaint being made before she realised shed been scammed. So, it doesnt seem she wouldve been prepared to listen 
to any form of scam warning either. 
Overall, while I think Monzos intervention could have been better, Im not persuaded it 
would have ultimately prevented Ms Rs loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely she 
would have continued to provide false information in order to make the payments. As such, I 
dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold the bank liable for failing to prevent the 
scam.
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done anything more to recover the funds 
after the fraud was reported. However, in this instance, the funds were transferred to 
accounts in Ms Rs own name, and we know the money was swiftly transferred on again to 
the scammer. So, there wouldve been no prospect of Monzo being able to recover any 
funds from the receiving accounts in these circumstances. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms R, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of such a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Monzo can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman