DRN-3605087
The complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard reduced his credit limit by
96%. He also complains they gave him poor customer service.
What happened
Mr Is Barclaycard credit limit was reduced from £5,800 to £250. He said he contacted
Barclaycard to discuss this, but it took him almost two hours to speak to somebody about it.
The call handler informed Mr I that Barclaycard sent him a letter in April explaining the credit
limit reduction, but Mr I said he never received this letter as he would have contacted them
about this.
Mr I said that during the conversation, he was told that to rectify the situation, he just
needed to increase his credit limit via Barclaycards mobile application (app). Mr I did this
and applied for his credit limit to be increased to £3,000 instead of the £5,800 that it was
before the reduction. But this was rejected.
Mr I said that the call handler told him that someone would give him a call from the relevant
department within 48 hours, as the call handler was unable to help him further. Mr I said he
never received a call back. Mr I called Barclaycard back, but the call handler said that as he
had been declined for the credit limit increase, he wouldnt be able to re-apply for another six
months. Mr I was promised a call back again, this time within 24 hours. But again Mr I didnt
receive a call back. Mr I made a complaint to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard said they had noted his feedback. They also paid Mr I £50 for not giving him a
call back. Mr I brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that Barclaycard had notified Mr I by
post that his credit limit would be reducing on 7 April 2021. As Mr I did not respond, this went
into effect on 30 June 2021. He said the £50 that Barclaycard paid Mr I was reasonable and
the credit limit reduction did not have a financial impact on Mr I.
Mr I asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In
summary he said being able to speak to somebody about increasing his credit limit wasnt
possible, he was promised several call backs, but he only received a call back once, he said
he was promised three times a copy of the letter Barclaycard say they sent him in April, but
he is yet to receive this, he wasnt told if he applied online for a credit limit increase, then he
wouldnt be able to apply for an increase again for another six months (and he wouldnt have
done this if he was aware of this) and he said he was told incorrect information about the
credit limit reduction affecting his credit rating.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ill start by explaining that its not the role of this service to say how a business should run
their credit limit reduction process as this is a commercial decision, which falls outside of this
services jurisdiction. However, Ive looked to see if Barclaycard have followed their own
process in reducing Mr Is credit limit and Im satisfied they have and that they havent
treated Mr I unfairly by reducing his credit limit by 96%, even if he doesnt see it this way. Ill
explain why below.
Barclaycard have acted in line with their terms and conditions here. For changes relating to
the credit limit (section 12 of the terms and conditions), Mr I would have agreed by accepting
the terms and conditions that Barclaycard could reduce the credit limit based on an
assessment of risk or his ability to repay and they could do so without notice. But they did
give him notice here. And they used information from his credit file and determined they
wouldnt be a responsible lender by keeping his credit limit the same as before the
assessment.
Although Mr I says he didnt receive this letter, Ive seen evidence from Barclaycards
systems that the letter was sent on 7 April 2021. Ive also checked his registered address on
Barclaycards system. This matches up to the address detailed on the complaint form Mr I
sent to this service. So Im satisfied they did send Mr I this letter in April 2021.
While Mr I may not have received this letter, I cant hold Barclaycard responsible for any
errors with the postal system. Even if Mr I did receive the letter and provide evidence of his
income, there would still be no guarantee that Barclaycard would not still go ahead with the
planned reduction as there are more factors than a customers income which they base their
decision on. I can see from Mr Is statements that his credit limit had changed several times
since he was accepted for the card. Barclaycard would not be required to give a more
detailed reason than lowering his credit limit due to their assessment of risk or his ability to
repay, even though his credit limit had been reduced by 96% and the reason was very
important to Mr I.
Ive considered what Mr I has said about the credit limit reduction affecting his credit rating.
But Barclaycard report the credit limit of an account as they are obliged to do so. Therefore,
when they reduce a credit limit, they simply report the new limit and the corresponding
balance. Barclaycard must report factual information relating to an account. The
interpretation of this data by Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) is outside of their control,
as it would be subject to each CRAs scoring system. Ultimately, they havent reported
adverse information as a result of the credit limit reduction in the same way as they would
report missed payments. So I cant say that Barclaycard have done anything wrong with the
factual information they gave the CRAs.
Ive considered what Mr I said about him not being able to speak to anybody about his credit
limit. I asked Barclaycard why this is. They confirmed that this is because the decision to
increase the limit after the deadline had passed would be automated. So even if Mr I was
able to speak to somebody about this, all they could have done is input the details that he
did into the computer and wait for a decision to be generated, the same as Mr I did himself
online. So while Mr I may be under the impression that if he spoke to somebody about his
credit limit, instead of being asked to do this through the app, he might have been able to get
a higher credit limit than £250, Im not persuaded this would have resulted in a different
outcome, even if he was able to speak to someone about this when Barclaycard have told us
the decision is automated.Ive thought about what Mr I said about him not being told that he wouldnt be able to apply
for a credit limit increase again for six months if he applied on the app, and if he had been
told that, then he wouldnt have applied for one on the app. Barclaycard have told me that is
because there is technically no limit to how soon they can review a limit as each request is
subject to checks, they however recommend waiting six months before a customer asks
them for another review. This is because it increases the likelihood that a customers
circumstances may have changed.
But Ive listened to six of the calls that Mr I had with Barclaycard. He was told a number of
different things about the six month period. As Mr I was told different things, ranging from he
couldnt apply again for a credit limit increase for six months, to him not being able to apply
from six months of the June decrease (and not the attempted August increase) then he will
have received incorrect information. As different call handlers were not clear about what
Barclaycards policy was in regards to applying for credit limit increases, this only further
distressed Mr I as he wouldnt know who (if any) of the call handlers were giving him the
correct information. The call handler he spoke to on 15 October gave the impression that the
9 August attempt to increase his credit limit on the app made no difference, as he wouldnt
have been able to increase his credit limit until six months after they automatically decreased
the credit limit. So Im persuaded that the conflicting information here would have an impact
on Mr I.
Ive considered what Mr I said about being promised a copy of the credit decrease letter
three times by Barclaycard, only for one not to be sent to him. Id like to explain to Mr I that
Barclaycard have told me they were unable to send Mr I a personalised copy of the letter as
they dont store a copy of these letters on their customers files. Barclaycard forwarded me a
template of the letter they sent him. I asked our investigator to forward this template onto
him. I listened to a call on 1 September where the call handler said that the complaint
handler would send him this letter. It appears that there was an earlier call where this had
been discussed also, although this call was not available for me to listen to.
So when Mr I did not receive the letter which he doubted Barclaycard sent him in the first
place, this would have only added to his frustration of what happened since his credit limit
had been reduced.
I asked Barclaycard why Mr I was promised a copy of the letter when they didnt have a
stored copy of this. They said that receiving a copy of the letter wouldnt have changed the
decision they already made to reduce his credit limit after the change had been made. While
that may be true, Barclaycard set an expectation for Mr I that he would be receiving
something from them. And when he didnt receive the letter, this would have further
distressed him.
Barclaycard let Mr I down when they did not give him a call back when they said they would.
They apologised for this and credited £50 to Mr Is account. But this wasnt the only time he
was promised a phone call back and he didnt receive one. When Mr I originally spoke to
Barclaycard on 9 August, the call handler clearly tells him he would receive a call back within
24-48 hours. As Mr I didnt get a call back, he rang them again on 11 August, shortly before
the line closed that day.
Ive listened to this call also. The call handler promises he would get a call back within 24
hours. But this didnt happen also. When Mr I speaks to Barclaycard two days later, he is
told by the call handler that you wouldnt get a call back in 24 hours and the call handler
ponders why Mr I was told this. So again, this would frustrate Mr I by being told
incorrect/conflicting information by at least one of the call handlers.
Ive considered whether the £50 compensation that Mr I received was fair for the events thatMr I complained about. But Im not persuaded it is and Ill explain why. Although Im satisfied
that Mr I was sent the letter in April by Barclaycard, when he rang them to discuss the credit
limit decrease, I am persuaded that Barclaycard did let him down on a number of occasions.
So Ive considered what would be a fair amount of compensation.
Im persuaded that an extra £100 would be fair, so Mr I would receive a total of £150. Im
satisfied that the extra £100 recognises the impact of the inconvenience and distress that Mr
I suffered as a result of conflicting/incorrect information, at least two times they didnt call him
back after saying they would and Mr I having to chase Barclaycard. I know Mr I will be
disappointed I cant ask Barclaycard to increase his credit limit, but I hope the extra
compensation will recognise the impact of Barclaycard letting Mr I down on a number of
occasions. So it follows I intend to ask Barclaycard to put things right.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclaycard accepted my provisional decision. Mr I did not respond to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Barclaycard to pay Mr I an extra £100 for 
distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay Mr 
I an extra £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman