DRN-3192602
The complaint
Mr M (by way of a representative) complains Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited, 
trading as Mutual, didnt carry out sufficient affordability assessment before each loan was 
granted. If Mutual had done so, it wouldve realised Mr M wasnt in a position to take on 
these loans.
What happened
Mr M was provided with 15 home collected loans between February 2011 and November 
2019. Ive included some of the information weve received about the loans from Mutual in 
the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment per 
loan
1 £1,700 19/02/2011 10/04/2013 102 £25.83
2 £1,500 18/02/2012 05/03/2014 102 £22.79
3 £500 24/03/2012 11/12/2013 102 £7.59
4 £1,000 06/04/2013 18/03/2015 102 £15.19
5 £2,000 01/03/2014 02/03/2016 102 £30.39
6 £1,500 07/03/2015 05/04/2017 102 £22.79
7 £2,000 27/02/2016 14/03/2018 102 £30.39
8 £500 21/09/2016 23/08/2017 51 £13.72
9 £1,000 06/05/2017 23/01/2019 102 £15.19
10 £600 03/03/0218 12/12/2018 51 £16.47
11 £1,000 07/04/2018 22/05/2019 102 £15.19
12 £600 15/12/2018 18/09/2019 51 £16.47
13 £1,000 25/05/2019 30/12/2020 102 £15.19
14 £800 31/08/2019 29/07/2020 51 £21.96
15 £1,000 23/11/2019 03/03/2021 102 £15.19
The above weekly costs are per loan, so where multiple loans are running at the same time, 
the amount Mr M owed Mutual increased. For example, the weekly repayment Mr M was 
committed to paying Mutual when loan 2 was granted was £48.67.
Initially, Mutual provided us with information about loans 6  15 only. The first adjudicator 
believed those were the only loans to have been granted. Following a view being issued, it 
came to light there were a further five loans. 
Mutual then gave this Service consent to consider all of Mr Ms loans.
An adjudicator then considered all of Mr Ms loans.  
The adjudicator didnt think Mutual had made an error when it approved loans 1  4 for 
Mr M. Although he did conclude that for loan 4, Mutual ought to have made better checks, 
perhaps by reviewing Mr Ms bank statements. 
But he thought by the time loan 5 was given, Mutual ought to have realised the pattern of 
lending was harmful to Mr M. So, loans 5 - 15 shouldnt have been given. 
Mr M appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, Mutual provided us a 
detailed response as to why it disagreed with the adjudicator. I want to be clear that I've read 
the document in full. But in summary, Mutual said:
Mr Ms credit score didnt show any signs of financial distress 
Mr Ms final four loans were repaid early, and he received an early settlement rebate
the loans Mutual granted are not high cost, instead the lending is a mid- cost product
there are no signs of unsustainable lending
Mr M showed a good repayment history throughout his lending relationship
there is no evidence to suggest Mr M was reliant on these loans
there is no requirement for Mr M to have a break between loans
taking 10 loans over five years is different to taking 10 loans in one year
the checks Mutual completed were proportionate and it used credit reports to check 
the accuracy of the information Mr M was providing.
Mutual also provided this Service with a copy of a credit search that it carried out in 
November 2019, so around the time loan 15 was granted. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr M (or his representative) doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings about 
loans 1  4. It therefore seems that there is no longer a dispute about these loans. And like 
the adjudicator, I would also agree that there doesnt appear to be anything in the 
information that Mutual gathered which suggested Mr M couldnt afford the lending.
So instead, this decision will focus on whether Mutual did anything wrong when it lent loans 
5 - 15.  
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of 
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this 
type of credit as well as the cost of the product. So Mutual should be aware of our approach 
to these issues. I dont intend to go into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is 
below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could
repay loans 5 - 15 in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With thisin mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include: 
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time loans 6  15 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable 
if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender 
realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
When loan 5 was granted, Mutual was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) who set 
out its rules and regulations in the Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). The ILG is very 
similar to the wording contained within CONC. Indeed, CONC references the ILG, so I think 
what Mutual needed to do for all of the loans Im considering was broadly the same. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mr M.    
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these 
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on 
our website. So, Im not going to deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, 
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 5 - 15 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. It looks like, based on what has been provided (applications forms from and including loan 
6), that Mutual took the same sort of information for each loan. Mutual asked Mr M about his 
income and the household expenditure. It also took details of his partners income. 
It also seems that when Mr M started borrowing from Mutual he was a full time taxi driver, 
but as his lending relationship with Mutual developed, he became a part time employee 
because he retired. 
So, Im not clear how this argument supports that the loans were properly lent. Furthermore, 
at this stage in the lending relationship I dont think it was reasonable of Mutual to have 
relied solely on what Mr M was telling it.
Mutual also says it carried out a credit check for at least the final loan, in the final response 
letter Mutual explained that it didnt show anything of concern in terms of arrears or defaults. 
Mutual also says there were no other signs of financial difficulty.
However, looking at the credit check Mutual provided for the final loan, I can see that Mr M 
did have a default recorded in 2018 by a mobile telecommunication provider. He also had an 
active CCJ.  But the credit report Mutual has provided, while not showing lots of outstanding 
credit with other credit recorded, did show, that Mr M did have adverse credit file information 
recorded. 
Mutual has also commented on the gaps between loans. But Mutual seem to be considering 
gaps as the difference in time between each new loan being approved. Whereas, any gap, in 
our view, needs to be considered from when a loan is repaid to when a new loan is taken 
out. So, looking at the loan history, in its totality, there are no gaps in lending, and it seems 
Mr M spent just over 10 years indebted to Mutual. 
As I have explained, I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for 
these loans because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id be inclined to think 
that from loan 5, Mutuals checks really needed to go further than just relying on the 
information Mr M told it. At this point in the lending relationship, I think Mutual ought to have 
been verifying Mr Ms income and overall expenditure in order to have an accurate 
understanding of his actual financial position.
I say this because Mr M had indebted for three years and was now returning for his largest 
capital loan to date. By this time, it ought to have been prudent of Mutual to have taken steps 
to make sure the information Mr M had been providing was accurate. 
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Mr M, Mutual also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded 
during the course of its lending relationship with Mr M. Having looked at the overall pattern of 
Mutuals lending history with Mr M, I agree with our adjudicator that Mutual should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the 
time it provided loan 5. I say this because;
By loan 5 it was just over three years into the lending relationship with no breaks 
between loans. And the loans generally overlapped, often with up to three loans 
running at the same time. As loans overlapped, Mr Ms overall indebtedness wasnt 
always increasing, but this was offset by the fact that Mr M was committed to 
spending up to two years repaying some of these loans. In my view, Mr Ms loan 
history up until this point was a clear indication that his underlying financial situation 
didnt seem to be improving. Loan 5 was also Mr Ms largest capital loan to date, to be repaid over an additional 
two years. At this point in time, Mr Ms weekly commitment to Mutual had now £68.37 
per week. A significant increase compared to loan 1, some three years before where 
Mr M was committed to paying £25.83. To me, this shows, that Mr Ms overall 
indebtedness was increasing in an unsustainable way. 
These loans were due to run for two years, so you may expect a fairly long lending 
relationship, but Mr M had a pattern of taking new loans while previous loans were 
outstanding, which further prolonged his indebtedness and also increased Mr Ms 
weekly commitment to Mutual. To me, this is an indicative of his indebtedness not 
being sustainable.
These loans show a broadly similar pattern of borrowing of taking relatively large 
capital loans. In total, 9 of his 15 loans were for sums equal to or greater than 
£1,000. I think its most likely this consistent pattern of borrowing over the period 
showed that Mr M didnt just have a short-term cash-flow problem but was probably 
supporting regular living expenses or other financial commitments.
By the point of loan 15, as Mr M was making a commitment to make repayments to 
Mutual for another two years, after being indebted constantly for nearly nine years. 
Further pushing his indebtedness out to over 10 years. The amount of time that Mr M 
spent indebted to Mutual meant that he was servicing a debt to Mutual over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out when Mutual provided loans 5 - 15 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans and time in debt was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 15 and Ill go on to set out
what Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some
different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect in deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to 
be also looked at, as Ive done here.So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about Mr Ms complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr M from loan 5.
 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there and 
not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between 
him and Mutual which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, he may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mr M loans 5 - 15.
A. Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Mutual should pay the total of A and B to Mr M. 
D. The overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing for loans 5 - 15 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Ms credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 Robert Walker
Ombudsman