DRN-2610111
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lex Autolease Limited (Lex) havent refunded his costs for hiring a car 
and other expenses, whilst the car hed hired from them was being repaired. 
 
What happened
Mr K entered into a five-year hire agreement with Lex in October 2015. The car was new at 
the time that the hire agreement began.
In September 2019, Mr K found that the car would not start. It was towed to a local 
dealership by the AA. A timing belt issue was identified, and Mr K was told that the car would 
need a new engine, at a cost of approximately £12,000. 
There was a query over whether a previous service that Mr K had carried out had used too 
little oil, leading to the timing belt issue. Mr K had an independent inspection carried out, 
which confirmed that there was unlikely to have been a problem with the oil at the 2016 
service, but if there was, it hadnt led to the problem with the car now. 
Lex told Mr K that it wasnt responsible for the repair costs, as the vehicle was outside of the 
manufacturer warranty period, and the hire agreement didnt include a provision for 
maintenance costs. So, it was Mr Ks responsibility to repair and maintain the vehicle. They 
offered Mr K £100 without an acceptable of liability. 
The manufacturer agreed to pay for the repairs to the vehicle, and these have been 
completed to Mr Ks satisfaction. Mr K remained unhappy that Lex wouldnt pay his other 
expenses which include the cost of hiring a car whilst his was repaired, the cost of parking 
permits for the hire car and the cost of the independent inspection report.
Mr K bought his complaint to this service, and our investigator looked into things. She felt 
that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr K. She said that as 
the repairs had been carried out satisfactorily, Lex should now refund Mr K one months hire 
payment to reflect the time he was unable to use the car. 
Lex didnt agree with our investigators view. They said that its unfortunate that Mr K has 
experienced problems with the vehicle, but they arent liable for this, or any associated repair 
costs. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. Lex as the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement is 
responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. If this 
implied term is breached, then a consumer is entitled to have things put right by the supplier.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car, will include 
things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability.
Here, the car hired was brand new at the point the agreement was entered into. The hire 
costs are not insignificant at £503.17 per month, which speaks to the overall value and 
quality of the car hired by Mr K. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect the level of quality to be higher than a cheaper more road worn vehicle. And, that it 
could be used, free from defects, for a considerable period of time. 
Mr K has had a yearly service completed on the car, and it had travelled approximately 
58,000 miles at the time of the engine failure. 
All things considered, I dont think its reasonable to expect a high value car with a good 
service record, and thats travelled less than 60,000 miles, to suffer such catastrophic engine 
failure that results in the need for a new engine at a cost of nearly £12,000. It seems that 
there was likely an overall issue with the vehicle which has led to a premature failure of 
parts. The issue doesnt appear to be one of normal wear and tear, nor have I seen any 
evidence that it was caused by the service, or by driving style or third-party damage. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that the car was not reasonably durable, and 
therefore was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, Lex should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. In this case, the manufacturer has repaired the goods already, and to the satisfaction 
of Mr K. So, I think this is a reasonable remedy. However, I think it is also fair to consider the 
out of pocket expenses that Mr K has incurred due to the breach of contract by Lex.
Mr K was without a vehicle for one month whilst the repairs were undertaken. Our 
investigator has recommended that Lex reimburse Mr K one monthly rental payment of 
£503.17 for this period. Mr K would always have had to pay for a car, but he has incurred 
costs above the value of the monthly rental payment. So, I think he should be reimbursed for 
his additional costs, but not his monthly rental payment. 
Mr K has provided evidence of hire car costs, parking charges and report fees. Ive 
considered each of these and whether Lex should reimburse Mr K for them. 
Report fees
There appears to have been a question over whether a service in 2016 led to the failure of 
the engine. Mr K paid £60 for an independent report, which confirmed that the 2016 service 
did not lead to the failure of the engine. Im satisfied that this led, at least in part, to the 
manufacturers decision to cover the cost of the repairs. As Ive found that Lex should have been responsible for these costs, Im therefore satisfied that they should reimburse Mr K for 
this report. 
Hire car costs
Mr K needed to hire a car to keep mobile for the month that it took to repair his car. He 
appears to have tried to mitigate his loss by asking the garage to provide a car, but they 
were unable to do so. Im satisfied that Mr Ks cost for 29 days of hire were £812.97. The 
evidence provided by Mr K shows that the car hired was comparable to his car, if not a lower 
specification. So, Im satisfied that these costs were reasonable, and that Lex should 
reimburse Mr K for them.  
Parking costs
Mr K lives in an area where hes only able to park near his house in a registered vehicle. 
Otherwise, he must use a visitor permit. Mr K says he paid £56 for visitor permits required to 
park his hire car near his home.  
Ive seen some of the visitor permits used by Mr K for the relevant period of the hire car, and 
Im satisfied that the cost claimed by Mr K is reasonable having regard to the local council 
websites published information on visitor parking fees. 
Mr K wouldnt have needed to pay these costs if it werent for the requirement to have his 
registered vehicle repaired, so Im satisfied that Lex should reimburse him for these costs. 
Finally, Lex have already made an offer of £100 compensation to Mr K. Mr K has been put to 
distress and inconvenience in having to arrange repairs to his car and for alternative modes 
of transport. I think this offer is fair and is in line with any award for compensation that I 
would have made. 
Mr K accepted my provisional decision. Lex have said that if my final decision includes 
statutory interest, they will need to see the dates that Mr K made the payments in order to 
calculate this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there havent been any further points made by either party, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. Lex can ask Mr K for evidence of the date he made the payments in 
order to calculate the interest Ive awarded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Lex Autolease Limited to: 
Refund Mr K £60 for the independent engineer report
Refund Mr K £812.97 for his hire car costs
Refund Mr K £56 for his parking costs
Pay Mr K the £100 compensation it offered, if it has not already done so
Lex should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. If Lex considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest part of my award, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman