DRN-2800567
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B represent the estate of Mrs B. Mr B and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank 
UK PLC (Barclays) took an excessive amount of time to open an executor account and this 
delay caused them a financial loss.
Mr B and Mrs B would like compensation for their financial loss.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B submitted applications on 28 February 2020 to open an executor account in 
the name of their late mother and late father. These accounts were needed to deposit funds.
Mr B and Mrs B were informed by Barclays that they would receive the sort code and 
account number in about 10 days.
Mr B and Mrs Bs late fathers account was opened on 5 March 2020 and their late mothers 
account was opened on 16 March 2020.
Mr B and Mrs B were waiting on the account details for their mothers account before 
completing final paperwork for investments in their late mothers name to be sold. Mr B and 
Mrs B say that the delay in opening the account meant that they had suffered a financial loss 
of £6,668 as the investments had fallen in value.
Mr B and Mrs B complained to Barclays who investigated and replied on 1 April 2020. 
Barclays apologised that the account was opened one day outside of their normal timescales 
and offered £350 compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr B and Mrs B did not think that the response addressed their concerns and provided 
further information. Barclays replied on 12 May 2020 but did not change their view and the 
offer of £350 was their final decision.
Unhappy with Barclays decision, Mr B and Mrs B referred their complaint to the service and 
one of our investigators looked at their complaint. The investigator thought that Barclays had 
acted reasonably in trying to resolve the complaint and the offer of £350 was fair. The 
investigator did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr B and Mrs B have asked for an ombudsman to look 
at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Mrs B but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator and will not be upholding the complaint. I know that they feel strongly about the 
complaint and I will explain why I have arrived at this decision.
Mr B has sent in a detailed account of the complaint and I would like to thank him for taking 
the time to do this.
I think there are two main elements to the complaint, and I will deal with each in turn. I will 
look at the timescales involved in setting up the account and I will look at the information 
received from the third-party provider about the sale of investments and what was necessary 
to sell and move funds.
Timescales involved in setting up account 
Mr B and Mrs B submitted the applications to open executor accounts for their late mother 
and father on the same day. There are no specific rules set by the regulator on how long it 
should take to open accounts, so I need to look at what the business has within its internal 
procedures about timescales and see if these are fair and reasonable.
The service level agreement that Barclays works to for opening these types of accounts says 
that accounts can take up to 10 working days for the accounts to be opened once the 
application has been received.
Mr B and Mrs B met with an advisor at Barclays on 11 February 2020 and during this 
meeting it was noted that they would be notified of the sort code and account number in 
about 10 days. This would tie in with what Barclays have in their internal procedures.
Mr B and Mrs Bs late fathers account was opened on 5 March 2020. Mr B and Mrs Bs late 
mothers account was opened on 16 March 2020 which was one day outside of the service 
level agreement that Barclays used.
In his submission to the service, Mr B has said that as his fathers account was opened on 5 
March, his mothers account should have been opened the same day. Mr B also states that 
although the accounts were separate, the documentation for both was provided at the same 
time.
Barclays have admitted that the documents were submitted under one header rather than 
individual requests and this caused the delay. They said that the person dealing with the 
request did not scroll down to read the whole document as they thought they were dealing 
with only one account. Barclays apologised for this human error.
Mr B has asked for further information on this human error and an explanation of what 
occurred and who is responsible. Im satisfied that the delay was caused by the person 
processing the application not knowing there was another application included in the same 
header.
Mr B has said that it was only his intervention that meant that the other account was 
processed and has questioned whether Barclays would have processed the other 
application using their own controls measures. I have sympathy with what Mr B says but I 
cant look at what may have happened  I can only look at what did happen in the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Barclays have admitted that the application was processed outside of their service level 
agreements and they have offered Mr B and Mrs B £350 for the inconvenience caused. I 
think that this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and Im not going to ask 
Barclays to do anything further here.
Information received from the third-party provider about the sale of investmentsIn his submission to the service, Mr B has said that the financial adviser that managed Mr B 
and Mrs Bs late mothers investments told them that the paperwork that was required to sell 
the investments and transfer the sale proceeds needed the account details.
Mr B and Mrs B were mindful of this process and this is why they believe that the delay in 
opening the executor account contributed to the loss of value when they completed the 
paperwork to sell the investments and transfer the proceeds.
Mr B and Mrs B say that the delay caused a financial loss of £6,668 and sent an email from 
the financial adviser which detailed the circumstances about when and how the investments 
were sold.
The investigator asked the third-party provider who carried out the process about their 
procedures. The investigator asked if bank account details were required to sell the 
investments or in other words, did the executor account have to be open before they would 
accept sell instructions on the investments.
The third-party provider replied saying that investments could have been sold down provided 
all executors had signed the documentation and that the grant of probate was available. 
They said that a transfer of assets form would be required in order to move to a beneficiary 
account.
I have reviewed all the information available to me and I cant hold Barclays responsible for 
the fall in value of the investments as the investments could have been sold at any time 
upon the instructions of the executors with valid documentation. Im not going to ask 
Barclays to do anything else here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B 
and the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman