DRN-1987221
The complaint
Miss O complains about the service she received from TSB Bank Plc when trying to open an 
account. She says the staff were rude, unhelpful and wouldnt accept some of her 
documentation as proof of address.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some key events here. In November 2019 Miss O attended a TSB branch and 
was looking to open an account. She says the branch staff wouldnt accept her proof of 
address and so she was unable to do so. Miss O complained to TSB. She also said the staff 
wouldnt tell her what documents would be acceptable as proof of address. 
TSB responded to the complaint. In summary they said theyd followed their procedures in 
relation to which documents they could accept as proof of address. Theyd spoken to the 
branch staff who said theyd told Miss O what documents would be acceptable, and this was 
re-iterated in their written response to the complaint.  
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should be 
upheld. He thought TSB had acted fairly when not accepting Miss Os documentation. He 
acknowledged he wasnt present in branch at the time, but he didnt conclude that the staff 
were rude and he thought it more likely than not that options for suitable documents were 
explained at the time. He didnt recommend that TSB needed to do more to resolve the 
complaint. 
Miss O doesnt accept this and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
TSB have obligations to verify the identity of those opening accounts with them. The 
decision as to what documentation they will deem to be acceptable as proof of identity is a 
commercial judgement that they are entitled to make. In Miss Os case, they didnt accept 
her documents. But I dont think that means shes been treated unfairly or that TSB need to 
do more. TSB are entitled to put processes in place to ensure they meet their regulatory 
obligations.
I can understand why this was frustrating for Miss O as she says she had only recently 
moved back to the UK. But this doesnt mean I think it was unfair for TSB to follow their 
processes.
Again, it is very difficult to know with any degree of certainty how the conversation happened 
in branch on that day. Miss O says the staff were rude and unhelpful. TSB say their staff 
explained the documents they would have accepted. Overall, I think its more likely than not 
that the staff would have explained what documents they would have accepted. There isnt 
sufficient evidence to persuade me its more likely than not that the staff were rude to 
Miss O. 
So overall, I dont think Miss O has been treated unfairly and Im not going to tell TSB to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman