DRN-2818563
The complaint
Mr M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited has unfairly declined his 
claim for the theft of his car under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took a policy with Watford in September 2020. In October 2020 his house was broken 
into and thieves took his keys and stole his car. Mr M made a claim to Watford but said his 
claim was declined by the underwriters because he didn't notify them until his claim that his 
father, a named driver on his policy, had changed his job. Mr M said he wasn't aware until 
the claim that his father had left his job and he doesn't understand how this affects his claim. 
Watford confirmed Mr Ms claim was declined and his policy cancelled under section 1 of the 
policy, which allows cancellation, Where We believe that continuing to provide cover 
following a known breach of any Policy Term, condition or Endorsement presents an 
unacceptable risk to us.
Mr M complained to Watford saying he cant be penalised for something he didnt know 
about. He said Watfords treatment of his careless mistake is very unfair. He wants his claim 
to be paid out and compensation for being messed around. Mr M said he was left without a 
car but still has to pay for it.
Watford responded that Mr M was responsible for providing accurate information but had 
misrepresented the occupation of the named driver on application for the policy. Watford 
said had it known his fathers correct occupation it wouldnt have offered him a policy. It said 
this was a reckless misdeclaration and so it could avoid his policy and keep his premiums. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and referred his complaint to us. Mr M said his father has a 
heart condition and after hed taken out the policy, he didnt see him for several months due 
to the pandemic. He said hed found out about his father leaving his job the weekend that his 
car was stolen because his father helped to fix the window broken in the burglary.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said Mr M was asked clear 
questions about the occupation of named drivers. Watford had shown it doesnt cover 
anything related to the entertainment business, which it said would include Mr Ms fathers 
job. But the investigator accepted Mr Ms contention that his fathers business never started 
because of the pandemic and so he was unemployed at the inception of the policy. This was 
also different from the occupation Mr M declared for his father when the policy started.
The investigator didnt think Mr M had been reckless as he didnt know his father had left his 
job of three years when the policy started. She thought Mr M didnt check his assumption 
before the policy began and had made a careless misrepresentation. She recommended 
that Watford restore Mr Ms policy and pay the claim proportionally to what it would have 
charged as a premium had it known Mr Ms father was unemployed. She said Watford 
should pay Mr M £100 for his stress and inconvenience.
Watford disagreed with the investigator and said Mr Ms answers about his fathers job didnt 
make any sense. It said the information it had received indicated that Mr Ms father was 
actually working in an entertainment business and it should have been informed of this when 
the policy was taken out. Watford requested an ombudsman review the complaint.  
Mr M agreed with the investigators view and said his car had been recovered and 
subsequently sold at a loss.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Generally, the 
remedy for the insurer is linked to the avoidance of the policy, though in this instance 
Watford has chosen to cancel Mr Ms policy, as set out above.
Watford thinks that Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he gave his fathers occupation as one associated with the entertainment industry. Ive 
looked at the questions asked of Mr M and can see that these were clear and unambiguous. 
I dont think Mr M took reasonable care to provide accurate information about his fathers 
employment status as it appears from the information hes provided us that his fathers 
business was thwarted by the pandemic and he was in fact unemployed.  
I have then gone on to consider if Mr M has made a qualifying misrepresentation, in other 
words did the misrepresentation make a difference to Watford. And so, the question here is, 
would Watford have acted differently towards Mr Ms policy proposal had it been made 
aware of accurate information about his father?  
Watford has provided us with its underwriting criteria, and I can see from this that if Mr M 
had said his father was an entertainer, then the policy would have been automatically 
declined. From what Ive seen Mr Ms father may have wanted to start an entertainment 
business, but this was simply an idea that never got off the ground. The evidence shows that 
he was in fact unemployed at the time and applying for work. Had Mr M been more careful, 
this is what he would have responded to Watfords questions about named drivers. And so, 
Im satisfied that Mr M has made a qualifying misrepresentation.
I think Mr M was open with Watford about his fathers employment as he understood it at the 
time the policy started and his claim. It is for Watford to show that Mr Ms misrepresentation 
was deliberate or reckless and I dont think it has done that. From what Mr M has told us Im 
satisfied that Mr Ms misrepresentation was careless. According to CIDRA, when an insurer 
finds that a consumer has carelessly misrepresented, they can say theyd offer the policy but 
on different terms or not offer the policy altogether according to their underwriting criteria. Watfords underwriting criteria show if it had known Mr Ms father was unemployed it would 
have offered the policy but with higher premiums. I agree with the investigator that on the 
basis that Mr M carelessly misrepresented his policy and Watford wouldve offered the 
contract, the fair and reasonable outcome is for the policy to be reinstated and for the claim 
to be paid proportionally. Its possible Mr M doesnt want the policy any longer, in which case 
all records of the cancellation should be removed by Watford. 
Putting things right
Therefore, as Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation was careless not reckless or deliberate, 
I dont think Watford have acted fairly by cancelling his policy and not paying his claim. 
CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases. As explained 
above, had Watford known Mr Ms fathers correct employment status it would have charged 
more for the policy and CIDRA requires an insurer to base its remedy on what it would have 
done had the consumer taken reasonable care. This means Watford needs to determine 
what the additional premium would have been to Mr M when the policy was taken out and 
then apply the calculation for the proportion of Mr Ms claim that it will pay as set out within 
Schedule 1 of CIDRA. 
Mr M said he had a huge amount of anxiety about continuing to pay for a car he no longer 
has which he said will financially harm him and his family. His business has been impacted 
by transport difficulties. I think it is fair for Watford to pay Mr M £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its actions.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to reinstate Mr Ms motor insurance 
policy if he still wishes, or remove all internal and external records of its cancellation if he no 
longer needs the policy. 
Regardless of whether or not Mr Ms policy is reinstated, I also require Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to pay Mr Ms claim proportionately in accordance with the 
proportion by which it would have increased Mr Ms premiums had it known about his 
fathers employment status. This calculation is set out within Schedule 1 of The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012.
I also require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to pay Mr M £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions in relation to his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Keith Holden
Ombudsman