DRN-4333224
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) are holding him liable for payments he 
didnt authorise after falling victim to fraud. He adds that Barclays failed to protect him from 
financial harm. 
What happened
In August 2022, Mr S and his wife travelled overseas on holiday. 
Mr S says that after having dinner and a few drinks on 8 August 2022, he was approached 
by a lady from a nearby casino - in the vicinity of the hotel complex  to come in and use free 
gambling tokens. He says that after using these up, he was ready to leave but was told it 
was fine for him to carry on playing as he was. 
Afterwards, he was told he needed pay for his losses. As he disputed this, he says two other 
individuals closed the casino and threatened him. He says one of them was carrying a gun. 
Mr S says he agreed to pay this amount but explained he didnt have any payments cards or 
cash with him as he was holidaying on an all-inclusive basis. He says one of the three 
individuals then took his wife to their hotel room for her to bring his wallet. 
Once his wife returned, Mr S made the payment using his card and PIN. He says the card 
was taken by the fraudsters who put through many more payments he didnt agree to.  
At that time funds were transferred from Mr S ISA and savings account into his current 
account. As a trustee, Mr S banking App also had access to a charity current and savings 
account. £30,000 was transferred from these accounts into his personal Barclays current 
account. 
Around 20 payments were made to the casino amounting to around £30,000 that evening. 
Around the time the payments started being made, Mr S received a text message from 
Barclays asking if a transaction to the casino was being made by him. Mr S replied with N 
to indicate no.  
Later, after being released, Mr S called Barclays and raised a claim disputing he authorised 
the payments. Barclays did not uphold his claim. Mr S complained. In its response, Barclays 
said it was right to hold him liable for the transactions. Thats because he provided the 
casino with his details and verification. 
Unhappy with what Barclays said, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into it, and they upheld the complaint in part. In summary, they found: 
- That despite Mr S responding that he wasnt making the payment to the casino at 
2:57am by text message, several payments to the casino still went through 
- Barclays say the text was from Barclaycard for Mr S credit card, which was blocked 
after he responded  and no such text message was sent for his debit card for which 
payments were processed as they were verified by CHIP and PIN.
But there is an obligation on Barclays to protect its customers from potentially falling 
victim to frauds and scams. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying 
suspicious activity that appears unusual or out of character
- Mr S statements show there was a significant shift in his spending patterns that night 
 and they were high-value and high-risk. As Mr S responded that he was wasnt 
making a payment on the credit card to the casino at 2:57, Barclays should have 
blocked his debit card too until it made further contact with Mr S. So any payments 
made after this point should be refunded 
- But they cant ask Barclays to refund any of the funds that came from the charity 
account as they dont belong to Mr S. Any dispute here is for the charity to raise 
- To put things right Barclays should refund payments made from 2:57am up until the 
point the charity money comes into the account. It should also pay applicable interest 
on the savings and ISA account from the date Barclays declined the claim till 
settlement   
Barclays did not agree with what our Investigator said. It has made several points, some of 
the key ones are: 
- Mr S advised Barclays his card was forcefully taken from him, however there is no 
mention his credit card was taken forcefully too
- The SMS text message confirms the credit card as well as the debit card were used 
to carry out transactions at the casino. This means both cards were shared with the 
fraudsters 
- Mr S responded N at 2:57am, but the funds Mr S is claiming were conducted via the 
fraudsters using his mobile phone were at 2:50am. Its unlikely a fraudster would give 
Mr S his phone back to respond N as this would block the card from further use 
- Mr S uses WIFI before and after the disputed transactions. That means the fraudster 
would have gone into the phone settings and switch off the WIFI connectivity  this 
does not make sense 
- Its unsure why Mr S wife didnt take the opportunity to alert local authorities what 
was going on when she was allowed to leave to get his cards from their hotel room 
- Mr S called Barclaycard to get his block removed from his credit card and confirmed 
he was at the casino. But he did not mention anything about the blocked transaction 
being made under duress and was very calm 
- Gambling transactions are not permitted on a credit card, but customers can allow or 
block gambling transactions through their mobile banking app for the debit card. If 
Mr S replied N to the Barclaycard SMS, then why didnt he switch off gambling 
transactions for his debit card
- There was no activity on Mr S personal account via his mobile phone. The fraudsters 
targeted a charity savings account which Mr S is a member of and spent that balance 
 but didnt access any other funds that were available
- There are internet media articles showing gambling scams take place in the country 
Mr S visited. It appears Mr S has fallen foul of a local scam given he was encouraged 
to play on after using free chips. So Mr S may have got caught up in the occasion of the chance to win large sums of money, rather than fraudsters accessing his money 
In response to a question raised by Barclays, Mr S responded that his wife was not alone at 
any point.  She was taken to their room by one of the casino staff members  who was 
carrying a gun. They were terrified given it was a foreign country, their first day there and 
didnt want to put their lives at risk. 
As Barclays didnt agree with what our Investigator said, this complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
Relevant Considerations
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (PSR) - and the terms and conditions of the customers account. So I 
have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty)
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6)
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to:
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers 
from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties are aware of the transactions in dispute here, so I dont need to list them here. 
Authorisation
Barclays have sent me technical information which shows the transactions in dispute were 
made using CHIP and PIN. So Im satisfied they were authenticated in line with the proper 
form. So I now need to think about whether the evidence suggests Mr S consented to the 
payments being made. 
Ive listened to several calls between Mr S and Barclays - and a call with our Investigator. 
Mr S says he consented to the first payment to the casino after initially disputing it. He says 
he was given the impression he could carry on gambling for free as before.    Initially, when first reporting the fraud, Mr S said the fraudsters saw his PIN and took his card 
off him to use it for the subsequent transactions. Mr S said the fraudster was always 
standing next to him and even told him they were putting through smaller payments to avoid 
the banks fraud detections systems.
Mr S told our Investigator the PIN was seen by the fraudsters, and that he was asked under 
duress for it from the fraudster. He says he complied as he was terrified. 
Theres some ambiguity here whether Mr S was observed using his PIN through intimidation 
 or whether he was told to give the PIN number equally through intimidation and 
threatening behaviour. Having listened carefully to these calls, Im persuaded Mr S gave the 
PIN number to the fraudsters. 
I note Barclays suggest Mr S may have been caught up in the euphoria of winning a large 
sum of money rather than being the victim of vicious fraud. Ultimately, I cant know what 
happened for sure as I wasnt there. But having listened to Mr S consistent testimony, the 
fact he reported the matter to the Police after getting Barclays advise, and given his 
previous use of the account, Im satisfied its very unlikely this is some contrived ruse to 
recover lost funds to gambling losses made in the exuberance of the moment. 
As its most likely Mr S, albeit through intimidation and duress, gave the fraudsters his CHIP 
ana PIN credentials, I think he has failed with intent to comply with his obligations as a 
payment service user. 
So Im satisfied the transactions in dispute here were authorised in line with what the PSRs 
say about this. So they dont need to be refunded under the provisions of these regulations.
Should Barclays have done more to protect Mr S from financial harm? 
Mr S has said Barclays failed to protect him from financial harm, as the spending was out of 
character and carried out abroad. Mr S feels Barclays fraud prevention systems would have 
alerted it to what was going on. 
Mr S accepts he made the first payment to the casino. The statement Barclays have given 
me shows this to be £405.39. 
Mr S has sent me a screenshot which shows he received a message from Barclays at 
2:56am on 8 August 2022 querying a payment to the same casino, and in the currency of the 
country he was in. That amount matches, at least in current exchange rates, with the first 
payment Mr S made on his debit card. 
Mr S replied N to indicate he wasnt making this payment. Mr S says he was forced to hand 
over his debit card and PIN. And hes said that he needed to transfer funds to make the 
payment, so he used his mobile banking App. But this was later taken off him by the 
fraudsters too. So this may explain why the credit card wasnt taken off Mr S  after all it 
would have been of no use to the fraudsters.
Barclays argue that Mr S responded N at 2:57am, but the payments conducted by the 
fraudsters using his mobile phone were at 2:50am. And so, its unlikely a fraudster would 
give Mr S his phone back to respond N as this would block the card from further use.
Its more than challenging to know at what point the phone was handed over to Mr S and 
back to the fraudsters to carry out this fraud. And how often it changed hands in that moment 
given Mr S was ultimately doing what he was told through an understandable threat to his 
and his wifes safety.But importantly I need to determine if Barclays, and its systems, should have been alerted to 
intervene and protect Mr S from financial harm. Especially when he had told Barclays a 
payment to the casino on his credit card wasnt him. 
Having looked at the statements Ive been given, Im satisfied payments of this value and 
frequency, and the fact that theyre abroad, are highly unusual for Mr S. So I think this is 
something Barclays systems should have picked up on. And given Mr S response by SMS, 
Im persuaded that despite the debit card payments being verified by CHIP and PIN, 
Barclays should have blocked that card too until it was able to speak to Mr S. 
So as Barclays failed to protect Mr S from financial harm when it should have, I think it 
should refund him any transactions after he responded to the SMS.  
I note funds were transferred from Mr S savings and ISA account to his current account to 
facilitate the fraudulent payments. So these refunds should have interest added to them for 
the rate of those respective accounts from the date the claim was rejected until settlement.
I note too that around £30,000 was transferred from a charity account Mr S is a trustee of. 
Those funds are not representative of his loss, so Barclays should stop short of refunding 
any payments derived from these funds. The charity is a separate legal entity, and it is for 
them to raise any claims against its losses as explained by our Investigator. 
Barclays say Mr S used WIFI before and after the disputed transactions. That means the 
fraudster would have gone into the phone settings and switch off the WIFI connectivity and 
this does not make any sense. But given Im satisfied with Mr S testimony, this meant the 
fraudsters had access to his phone. So why they would choose to switch off WIFI is not 
clear, but its possible they didnt want to be associated with the IP address of either the 
hotel or its own establishment to avoid detection.  
Mr S told Barclays in the first call he made to it that his wife was accompanied by the casino 
staff. So I dont think she wouldve been able to raise an alert as it suggests. 
I also note that when speaking to Barclaycard, Mr S later explains he was the victim of fraud 
on his debit card and wants to be connected to the relevant department after getting his 
credit card unblocked. Its possible the credit card was first attempted to make payment to 
the casino, so the fraudsters moved onto his debit card when it didnt work.
But in any event, Mr S didnt need to raise a fraud against this card given no payment was 
made from it to the casino as it had been blocked. Nor do I think his demeanour on that call 
gives raise to any suspicion.
I also dont see how switching off gambling payments in his App would have been practical 
or at the forefront of Mr S mind when he was in fear of his safety and surrounded by the 
fraudsters. 
So after weighing everything up, I think Mr S failed with intent and so authorised the 
transactions he disputes under the provisions of the PSRs. But I think Barclays failed in its 
obligations to protect Mr S from financial harm and should refund him payments from when I 
think it should have intervened. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays must: 
- refund Mr S any payments after he responded to the SMS and return the amounts to the savings and ISA accounts they were transferred from. But it should not refund 
any payments that were derived from the charity accounts 
- Pay the applicable and prevailing rates of interest on the funds returned to the 
savings and ISA accounts from the date it rejected his claim until settlement 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC must now put 
things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman