DRN-2521253
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs P say The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
 In 2003 Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy on the phone to protect their mortgage
repayments. The cover gave them accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a
monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me. 
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision (an
extract follows and forms part of this final decision) to give both parties a chance to
comment. I asked for their responses by 16 January 2021.
Extract from my provisional decision
Im currently planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P say that Britannia recommended the policy to them. It disagrees. I havent
found evidence that it reviewed their circumstances and made a tailored recommendation as
a result. So its obligation was to provide Mr and Mrs P with information about the policy that
was clear, fair and not misleading so they could make an informed decision about whether or
not to buy it.
It says it cant comment on what may or may not have been discussed but believes enough
policy information would have been provided, along with product leaflets. But I am not
satisfied this evidences that complete and clear information on the cost and benefits of the
policy was provided. And I think this would have mattered to Mr and Mrs P. I say this
because based on what I know of their circumstances at the time I dont think they had a
strong need for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs P were both entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if they were
sick. And they had savings of around £17,000 (about five months worth of combined salary).
Mr P was also entitled to a good redundancy package and Mrs Ps employer has confirmed
her employment was guaranteed due to the way it was funded.
So, given their existing means and the fact this policy paid out for a maximum of 12 months,
I dont think Mr and Mrs P would have though it offered them much value. This means had
they been better informed I think its most likely they wouldnt have chosen to take out this
policy.
Britannia says that the adviser couldnt possibly go through every aspect of the policy and
some responsibility was placed with customers to read the documentation provided and
familiarise themselves with its benefits, features and exclusion. But this does not change my
conclusion. I need to decide whether its likely Britannia met its obligation to provide enough
information at the right time  not whether Mr and Mrs P had themselves fully investigated
the policy terms and conditions. As Ive said above, I dont think its shown it did.
It follows I currently think Mr and Mrs P have lost out as result of the problems with this sale.
I then set out what Britannia would need to do if I upheld the complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our general approach to complaints about PPI is set out on our website and Ive followed it
here.
As neither party sent in any new information or comments, I have no reason to change the
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision.  
So I am upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Putting things right
 Britannia should put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken
out PPI. I understand the policy has already been cancelled, so Britannia should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Britannia can take
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. It can also deduct the
commission that I understand it has already refunded.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Britannia to take off tax from this interest. Britannia must give
Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
 I am upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) 
must now put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman