DRN-2955844
The complaint
Mr G complains about the customer service he received from Bank of Scotland plc trading
as Halifax when he put in a request for a direct debit indemnity claim.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Gs complaint on 5 July 2021. I planned on coming to 
a different outcome to our investigator, so I wanted to give both parties the opportunity to 
respond with anything additional they wanted me to consider. Both parties have now 
responded.
I have copied my provisional decision below, and it forms part of this final decision:
In September 2019, a direct debit was taken from Mr Gs account by his energy supplier.
Mr G doesnt think the supplier should have collected this payment, given that he was no
longer a customer of theirs and his account was already in credit, so the payment ought to
have been collected from the credit balance instead of by direct debit.
Because of this, Mr G put in a request for a direct debit indemnity claim. Mr G says that the
service he received from Halifax in relation to this was very poor. He says he spoke to a
number of people on the phone who were either rude to him or they didnt know what they
were doing. He says they werent helpful and didnt answer his questions. Mr G says he
spent a lot of wasted time on the phone talking to representatives at Halifax.
Mr G says Halifaxs actions caused him a lot of distress and inconvenience. Mr G says that it
is now too late for an apology from Halifax  he said he had to spend a lot of time sorting the
issue out direct with the company itself. Mr G says he wants £175 to resolve matters.
Halifax looked into Mr Gs complaint, but it didnt feel that it had done anything wrong. Our
investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint too  she didnt think this service could consider
some of his complaint, but she thought some of the service Mr G had received could have
been better. And so, she thought Halifax should pay Mr G £50 to compensate him for this.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator. He was unhappy this service couldnt look into his
complaint about how his complaint was handled, and he didnt feel as though £50
compensation was a fair amount for the poor service he received from Halifax.
I issued a decision on this case in March 2021, saying that this service didnt have the power
to look into Mr Gs complaint about the customer service he received in relation to how it 
dealt with his complaint. But I decided that we could look at the service hes received in
relation to the direct debit indemnity claim.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen and heard so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G has made a number of specific points about some of the things he says Halifax did
wrong. While I may not have commented on all of these points in this provisional decision,
Id like to reassure Mr G that I have read and considered everything he has said.
I understand Mr G isnt complaining about the direct debit indemnity (DDI) claim itself, but I
think its important for me to explain the purpose of the indemnity scheme so I can comment
on the service hes received.
The purpose of the direct debit indemnity guarantee is to protect customers who have
allowed a third party to take payments directly from their account. If a payment error is made
 either by the bank or by the business collecting the money, then they should be able to get
an immediate refund from the bank.
The guarantee scheme doesnt deal with contractual disputes between customers and the
business collecting the money. If an indemnity claim is raised incorrectly, then the indemnity
is unlikely to apply.
In Mr Gs case, a final payment was collected by direct debit from Mr Gs bank for the supply
of energy. Based on what Ive seen, it doesnt appear that there was any error in it collecting
this money because it was the final payment that was due. I appreciate Mr G has said that
his account was in credit, but usually any credit balance is returned at the point at which the
account is closed, and so a final payment is usually to be collected in the normal way. A
dispute about how the final balance should be paid, is essentially a contractual dispute
between Mr G and the energy supplier. So, it follows that I dont think Mr G had grounds to
make a successful DDI claim. I can see that the claim was subsequently declined, but I
understand this issue is now resolved anyway.
With this in mind, Ive then gone onto consider the main crux of Mr Gs complaint which is
the service he received around the DDI claim.
Call on 25 October 2019
This call is when Mr G first requested a DDI claim. The representative provided Mr G with
quite a bit of information about when it would normally process a DDI claim. He tried to
manage Mr Gs expectations and let him know what types of claims it would normally put
through.
Mr G insisted that an error had been made when the direct debit was collected by the
supplier. He said he was in credit with the supplier and it shouldnt have taken the final bill
amount. Mr G confirmed he didnt want to sort things out with the supplier because the call
centre they used was abroad. And that neither party could understand each other. And it
would take too much time.
The representative suggested that Mr G waited for the closure of his energy account for the
bill to be finalised. But Mr G insisted he didnt want to do that. Mr G didnt agree with what 
the representative was saying and wasnt happy the representative was asking so many
questions. But the representative was trying to understand if the situation Mr G was
describing was something he should be putting through as a claim. Or if Mr G needed to wait
and hear back from the energy supplier after the account had been finalised. The
representative said he didnt want to waste Mr Gs time by putting it through and it not being
accepted.
The representative tried to help Mr G. But Mr G insisted the representative was putting
obstacles in his way. I dont agree the representative was putting obstacles in Mr Gs way.Theres a set process where an indemnity claim should be put through, and the
representative tried to explain this, but Mr G wouldnt accept it.
The call ended with the representative not putting through the claim  I dont think this was
wrong. I say that because, based on the information Mr G had given the representative on
this call, he didnt meet the criteria.
Call on 29 October 2019
Mr G contacted Halifax again and let it know that the previous representative refused to
process the DDI claim for him and he didnt know why. He made a number of complaints
about the previous representative he had spoken to, saying he wasnt knowledgeable and
didnt know what he was doing. And he asked to put in a complaint about these things.
The representative he spoke to on this call apologised for this and offered to process the
claim for him. And agreed to set up a complaint.
This representative processed the direct debit indemnity claim for Mr G,  although, I think
the second representative ought to have asked more questions about the reason for the
claim, so it could be established if this was something that fits the criteria, as the first person
Mr G spoke to had. But Mr G told the representative that the direct debit had been taken in
error by the supplier, and he was insistent he wanted the claim processing. So, I dont think
overall the representative did anything wrong here.
Later in the call, Mr G thought that the representative had raised his voice. I dont agree that
they did. Mr G seemed to get frustrated with the representative and refused to repeat
information that would have helped the representative to assist Mr G quicker. Mr G used
inappropriate language during the call and became personal about some of the staff
members at Halifax. The representative told Mr G that he wasnt being fair. And Mr G
eventually terminated the call.
Call on 9 December 2019
Mr G contacted Halifax again as hed received a letter saying that it was going to re-debit the
amount of the direct debit to his account.
Initially in the call, Mr G complained about a previous advisor he had spoken to. He said that
the advisor wasnt helpful or friendly and wouldnt accept a correct answer he provided to
pass security. He wanted to make a complaint about this advisor.
He then complained to the representative that the letter had taken too long to arrive to him
and wasnt happy that the representative didnt accept that the problem could have been
with Halifax and not the postal service. I dont find it likely that the length of time it took for
the letter to arrive with Mr G was as a result of something Halifax had done wrong. The letter
was sent by second class, and at a busy time for the postal service. In any event, the letter
didnt take an unreasonable amount of time to get to Mr G.
This call went on for a long time, but the crux of the issue was that Mr G wasnt happy that
the energy supplier had put in a counter claim for the indemnity and so the amount would be
re-debited to his account. Mr G was told that he would need to go back the energy supplier
to resolve the issue. I think this was fair advice and not unhelpful. Afterall, it was the energy
supplier who had made the counter claim, and so they would be able to provide more
information as to why it did this.
Summary of all callsIve listened to all the calls Halifax has been able to send me. The calls were quite lengthy,
and so I can understand why Mr G might have been frustrated by this. But I note Mr G asked
the representatives several questions during the calls, and each time the representatives
have tried to answer these. Sometimes they didnt have the answer immediately to hand,
and so theyd need to put Mr G on hold to find out the answer. I dont find that theres
anything wrong in taking time to ensure the answer it gave was correct. I also note that on a
number of occasions Mr G didnt accept what he was being told by the representatives, and
so the calls took longer than they normally would have while the representatives tried to
explain things. I dont find that the length of the calls was a result of something Halifax did
wrong.
I cant agree with Mr Gs comments that any of Halifaxs representatives have been rude, or
unhelpful. I understand Mr G feels that the worst customer service he received was during a
call that Halifax doesnt have the recording of. I can see our investigator accepted Mr Gs
comments about what happened on this call, and so she thought that Halifax should pay him
£50. But given that I havent found that Halifax has been unhelpful, rude or provided a poor
service on the other calls, on balance, I dont think its likely he was given poor service on the
call we dont have a recording of.
Mr G doesnt think his questions were answered during the calls, but I havent heard a single
case of this happening. Every question that Mr G asked was answered  as far as I can hear
from the calls that I do have. The answers to the questions might not have been what Mr G
wanted to hear, but the answers were provided.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision to say it accepted the provisional findings and 
didnt have anything further to add.
Mr G responded but he didnt agree. I have summarised his main points below:
I had listened to the wrong calls when coming to my provisional decision.
Mr G confirmed that his complaint was about a letter he received about the DDI claim 
on 4 December 2019  and the subsequent calls he made to Halifax after this date.
He reiterated his concerns about the letter from 4 December 2019  which he says 
encourages him to contact Halifax if he had any questions. But when he did call, he 
was fobbed off. He says the letter should have told him not to call.
Mr G has also referred to being fobbed off by the complaint handler at Halifax. The 
complaint handler said he had listened to all the calls but couldnt tell Mr G what they 
were about. The complaint handler lied about sending the final response letter. And 
the final response letter was grammatically poor and contained spelling mistakes. 
He said that Halifax made up the answers to his questions as it went along and 
wasted his time.
The previous investigator had offered him compensation because she had listened to 
the correct call and agreed the advisor had been rude and accepted the service had 
been poor.
Overall, Mr G spent 3-4 hours on the phones in one week that could have been 
avoided if Halifax has answered his questions in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is my decision not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I 
appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to him, as its clear how strongly 
he feels about his case. But based on all of the information I have, I dont think I can fairly 
say that Halifax has done anything wrong.
Im sorry that Mr G feels as though Ive listened to the wrong calls. Its important that I take 
into account everything that we have on file when coming to a decision  and so this is why I 
listened to and commented on these calls. Mr G had raised a number of concerns about the 
customer service hed received and so I found it important to ensure that the service hes 
received in relation to the prior calls was also considered as part of his complaint.
Mr G states that it was only the calls that happened from December 2019 that hes unhappy 
about. This is after he received a letter about the direct debit indemnity claim being rejected.  
I have again listened to the calls we have on file relating to this. But as Ive already explained 
in my provisional decision, I cant agree that Halifax did anything wrong here.
I know Mr G feels that Halifax wasted his time by putting a contact number for him to call on 
the letter  and it shouldnt have done this if it wasnt going to help him when he did call.  Its 
not uncommon for a letter to provide a number to call if a customer has any questions  
while I understand Mr G didnt feel he got the answers to the questions he wanted, I dont 
find that Halifax unnecessarily wasted his time, fobbed him off or were rude.
There was an additional call that happened on 11 December 2019. I didnt comment on this 
in my provisional decision because it is essentially where Mr G raises a complaint about the 
service hed received in relation to the letter he got, the previous call hed had, and current 
call handler. Again, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably in this call. 
The following calls and correspondence were about Mr Gs dissatisfaction with how his 
complaint was handled. Ive already sent a decision to Mr G to explain that this service wont 
be looking at this part of his complaint. And so, I wont be commenting on the calls that 
happened after this or the final response letter he received.
I dont doubt what Mr G has said about the length of time he has needed to spend on the 
phone. But based on everything we have on file, I dont find that this has been down to 
something Halifax has done wrong. 
Overall, Ive thought about and considered everything thats happened in the course of Mr 
Gs complaint  from when he initially requested the DDI, which Im aware he isnt 
complaining about, up until he made his complaint about the letter he got when the DDI 
claim was rejected. I havent found any of Halifaxs actions to be unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman