DRN-2577964
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the way Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) responded when 
her roof was damaged and she made a claim under her home emergency insurance policy.   
What happened
Mrs P had a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by Astrenska which covered a 
house she owned and let to tenants. In December 2019 some tiles on the roof slipped 
causing leaks to the house. Her policy listed missing or repositioned roof tiles as one of the 
risks covered by the policy. So Mrs P claimed under the policy.
Astrenskas agent sent a roofer to look at the damage. He was able with a ladder to reach 
and reposition some tiles. However, he couldnt reach other missing tiles further up the roof. 
He said he would need scaffolding for this, and he would have to ask Astrenska to authorise 
this.
Astrenska told Mrs P it wouldnt provide further assistance. It said the section of the policy 
covering missing or repositioned roof tiles contained an exclusion for any repair where the 
erection of scaffolding is required. Mrs P disputed this; she said no such exclusion was 
mentioned in the policy documentation she had received.
To try to get Astrenska to complete the repair and avoid further damage she asked if it would 
complete the repair if she sourced and paid for the required scaffolding, but Astrenska said it 
couldnt do this.
She complained to Astrenska. It responded that the policy only covered a temporary 
emergency repair. In this case its roofer had completed a temporary repair, and it 
understood the leak had been sealed for now. However, a full permanent repair would 
require scaffolding and was outside the scope of the policy.
Mrs P complained to us. She said she had paid £595 for another company to carry out the 
required emergency roof repairs Astrenska refused to authorise. She had paid a further £750 
for internal repairs for water damage caused by the delay resulting from Astrenskas refusal 
to complete this work. She thought Astrenska should cover these costs.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said when Mrs P 
took out the policy she received a document headed Your Policy Wording, Residential 
Landlords Home Emergency. On page 2, the document said it was a summary of the cover 
provided. It went on, It is important that you read the policy document carefully when you 
receive it. However, Astrenska had confirmed to us this was all the documentation Mrs P 
received.
The investigator said Mrs P had read the documentation supplied to her to make sure she 
was satisfied with the cover. This didnt contain any mention of an exclusion if scaffolding 
was needed. The leak she had complained about hadnt been fully stopped. Even after she 
offered to pay for scaffolding Astrenska wouldnt finish the job and stop the leak.
The investigator didnt think Astrenska had treated Mrs P fairly. She recommended that 
Astrenska reimburse Mrs P the £595 she had paid to have the scaffolding erected and the 
leak stopped.
She also thought while some delay would have been inevitable while Astrenskas roofer 
arranged for scaffolding to be erected and completed the repair, its refusal to assist caused 
further delay and so worsened the internal damage. So she thought Astrenska should 
reimburse the £750 Mrs P had paid to make good the internal damage.
Astrenska responded to say, in summary, that:
1. it would anticipate that a customer would tell it if it didnt receive the full policy 
documents, and would chase these up if not received. Mrs P had never contacted it 
to say she hadnt received the full wording. If she had, it would have supplied this;
2. it thought Mrs P would have raised with its claims department the exclusion missing 
from the wording she had. But she didnt tell it she didnt have the full wording;
3. it would have been illogical for it to reject Mrs Ps offer to pay for the scaffolding. 
There was no evidence this offer was made or turned down. If it was made this 
suggested she accepted scaffolding was not covered by the policy;
4. different brokers/agents were responsible for the sale of the policy and claims made 
under it; and
5. there was a further exclusion contained in the documentation Mrs P had received, 
namely Any loss or damage relating to repairs more specifically covered as part of 
any other insurance policy, guarantee or maintenance agreement.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In answer to the numbered points above which Astrenska has raised, I conclude as follows:
1. The documents Mrs P received contained a full description of the policy terms. 
Indeed, they said they contained all the information she would need regarding her 
home emergency policy. So while the document also said it was a summary, I dont 
think Mrs P acted unreasonably in thinking it was accurate and the only exclusions 
were those in that document;
2. Mrs P did raise with Astrenskas claims representative the fact that the document she 
had received didnt have the exclusion for scaffolding he was referring to, but this 
was ignored. I have listened to the phone call when she raised this;
3. I have also listened to the phone call to Astrenskas claims representative when    
Mrs P offered to pay for the scaffolding if this would allow Astrenska to complete the 
required repair; but her offer is turned down. She also sent an email in December 
2019 repeating this offer. 
I dont think this is evidence that she accepted scaffolding was excluded under her 
policy. I think she was just being practical and seeking to reduce the continuing 
damage to her property;4. I dont think the fact that different brokers/agents may have been responsible for the 
sale of the policy, and claims made under it, excuses the way Mrs Ps claim was 
handled; and
5. Mrs P has said she entered into this policy because the main policy she had taken 
out for the house didnt include home emergency cover. Ive not seen any evidence 
that the emergency repairs she needed were more specifically covered as part of any 
other insurance policy, guarantee or maintenance agreement that she held.
Like the investigator, I dont think Astrenska treated Mrs P fairly when she claimed under her 
policy. I dont think it was reasonable for it to say the further work needed to complete the 
repair was excluded because scaffolding was needed. Mrs P hadnt seen this exclusion, and 
Astrenska didnt do enough to make her aware of it.
So I think Astrenska should reimburse the additional costs she had to pay to erect the 
scaffolding and complete the repairs and stop the leaks. Because its actions also delayed 
this work being carried out, I think its fair that it also reimburses the cost of the internal 
repairs. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Astrenska should reimburse the costs of £595 and £750 Mrs P 
incurred. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Astrenska Insurance Limited to 
reimburse Mrs P a total of £1,345.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman