DRN-3330862
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy Bank of Scotland cant provide more information about the 
money in savings accounts they held with it.
Mr and Mrs C are represented by Mr M, for ease Ive referred to statements made by Mr M 
as being made by Mr and Mrs C.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C say they had several savings accounts with Bank of Scotland, and the last 
communication they have on these accounts was a statement they received dated April 
1997. They said they visited a branch to enquire about the accounts but say they were told 
the bank had no recollection of them.
Mr and Mrs C arent happy with this and would like Bank of Scotland to pay them the 
balance from these accounts plus interest. 
Bank of Scotland said Mr and Mrs Cs Solid Gold account closed in November 2002 with a 
balance, but it couldnt provide any further information because of the length of time that has 
passed since it closed. It later located other accounts and it said when their Bonus Gold 
account closed, the balance was transferred to their Solid Gold account. It said it was only 
obliged to retain records for six years at the time the accounts closed. 
However, Bank of Scotland acknowledges Mr and Mrs C received poor service in branch. It 
says its branch staff should have raised the complaint for them and escalated it to the 
customer services department. It paid Mr and Mrs C £75 for the upset and frustration 
caused. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the statement Mr 
and Mrs C had from 1997 only showed a snapshot of the accounts. She said the account 
statements showed both accounts had been closed. Our investigator also thought it was 
understandable that Bank of Scotland had limited information considering the length of time 
that had passed. Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and for similar 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs C complained about four savings accounts they held with Bank of Scotland. In 
this decision Ive only considered their joint savings accounts. To clarify:
Bonus Gold ending 7058- Ive considered this here. 
Solid Gold ending 2957- Ive also considered this here. Bank of Scotland confirmed 
this account is the same account referred to as Saver Reward ending 7524.
Tessa account ending 4542 will be looked at separately under our reference ending 
Z5G7. 
Tessa account ending 4540 will be looked at separately under our reference ending 
V9H5.
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt close the joint accounts in question. Bank of Scotland has said 
the Bonus Gold account closed and the balance was transferred to Mr and Mrs C Solid Gold 
savings account. It says their Solid Gold account closed in 2002 and I accept this. 
Ive carefully considered the individual account statements provided by Bank of Scotland, 
alongside the 1997 share account statement provided by Mr and Mrs C. The 1997 statement 
shows the balances in their savings accounts as at February 1997. I can see the balance 
stated in the individual account statements for that time is the same as shown on the 1997 
statement. However, I dont find the accounts still held the same amount of money by the 
time they closed.
The statements show that the balance of Mr and Mrs Cs Bonus Gold account was 
transferred to the Solid Gold account in October 2000. Bank of Scotlands records show 
there were no further transactions, and this account had already closed by January 2001. 
Therefore, Im satisfied their Bonus Gold was account closed, and the statements provided 
show the closing balance was zero at the time. 
Their statements also show the balance in the Solid Gold account was withdrawn in 
November 2002. Bank of Scotland explained this account was closed in branch on the same 
day the funds were withdrawn from it. It says due to the time that has passed since this 
account closed, it has limited information and cant tell where the funds went on closure. 
Banks arent required to hold information indefinitely, and considering its been around 20 
years or more since the transaction was carried out, I dont think what its said is 
unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs C said they thought the funds from their accounts may have been transferred to 
various charities. This would usually happen when an account is left dormant, the bank may 
transfer money left in the account to an organisation to distribute to charities. However, the 
statements show the accounts were active when the money was withdrawn. They dont 
indicate they were left dormant, so on balance I think its likely Mr and Mrs C withdrew or 
transferred the funds elsewhere. 
Based on the information Ive seen I think its likely their Solid Gold account closed around 
the time the funds were withdrawn from it. I also havent seen anything that suggests the 
account carried a balance beyond the date Bank of Scotland said it closed. So, I dont think 
its reasonable to ask Bank of Scotland to pay Mr and Mrs C the money previously held in 
their Solid Gold or Bonus Gold accounts.
Bank of Scotland suggested Mr and Mrs C check statements for accounts they held with 
other banks to see whether the funds had been transferred elsewhere, and I dont think 
thats an unreasonable suggestion.
It recognised the service Mr and Mrs C received in branch was not as it should have been. It 
said the member of staff they spoke to should have recorded a complaint on their behalf, 
rather than tell them to complain directly to our service. As such, it paid them £75 
compensation and I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. Its unfortunate Mr and Mrs C had to visit the branch and didnt get the answer they had 
hoped for. But in the circumstances, I think Bank of Scotland has been fair and reasonable in 
its investigation into Mr and Mrs Cs accounts. I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs 
C but for the reasons set out above, I dont think Bank of Scotland need to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman