The complaint
This complaints about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1998. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So in my 
decision Ill just refer to AXA as the PPI seller. Mrs Q says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They said that the way in which the 
store card application form was completed meant there was doubt as to whether Mrs Q 
actively selected PPI at the time. 
AXA didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Qs case.
Having done so, I consider that the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I can see from the application form that there was a section for Mrs Q to sign if she wanted 
PPI. She signed in the relevant section, next to a handwritten X.
While, ordinarily, that might lead me to think Mrs Q actively chose to take out PPI with her 
store card, I note the section was also crossed out by hand (along with the section below 
and another section relating to previous addresses). 
Looking at the form closely, I think its possible that Mrs Q initially chose to take PPI, but 
then changed her mind for some reason, leading to the section being crossed out. I note that 
the section was crossed out, rather than just her signature but Im unsure as to the 
significance of that.
Overall, theres enough doubt to lead me to believe that, on balance, Mrs Q ultimately 
decided to decline PPI.
Ive thought carefully about what AXAs said, including about Mrs Q having the option to 
cancel the PPI after the event if she didnt want it. But I cant say for sure that Mrs Q was 
aware it had been added or that shed have thought to check once the sale had taken place.
DRN-1351650Taking everything into account, I find that Mrs Qs lost out because of how AXA sold her the 
PPI. That being the case, I believe it should put things right for her as explained below.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs Q in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs Q would have owed when she closed her store
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
 So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on  
        those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-          
        sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
       AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs Q owed when she closed    
     her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
   If Mrs Q made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she      
 got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs Q would have
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund.
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs Q would have owed each month without PPI 
Mrs Q paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple
interest on the extra Mrs Q paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point
when Mrs Q would have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate
should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs Q what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things 
right for Mrs Q as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman