DRN-3824485
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund transactions he says were 
unauthorised and with its decision to close his account and hold him liable for an overdraft.
What happened
Mr H says he is the victim of identity theft and that unauthorised transactions were made on 
his account. On 21 July 2022 he contacted Monzo through its chat function and said his 
account had been hacked and he didnt recognise transactions made between 12 May and 
24 June. On 12 May 2022 Mr H transferred £8,000 into his Monzo account. After this there 
were a number of cash withdrawals abroad and faster payments to individuals Mr H said he 
didnt recognise. 
Monzo said it believed Mr H was aware of the transactions he disputed and had breached 
the terms and conditions of his account. It closed Mr Hs account without notice. At the time 
Monzo closed Mr Hs account it was overdrawn by £180.92. Monzo asked Mr H to repay this 
sum and said if he didnt do so it would default the account. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Monzos response and brought a complaint to this service. He said 
hes the victim of fraud but has been treated like a criminal. Mr H says the experience has 
had a huge impact on his health and finances. Hed like Monzo to repay the £8,000 that has 
left his account, write off the overdraft and pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
the evidence available suggested that Mr H knew about the transactions he has claimed to 
be fraudulent, and he hadnt provided any explanation for how a third party knew his log in 
details. The investigator noted that Mr H told Monzo his partner was using his account while 
his mum was ill, and the only devices used to log into the account were Mr Hs and the one 
used at this time  which was also used to make the disputed transactions. The same device 
had also been used to answer some of Monzos queries when the claim was made. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings, so his complaint has been brought to me to 
consider. In summary, he said:
- He wasnt involved in the transactions  he has never been to the country the cash 
withdrawals were made in and doesnt know the recipients of the transfers. 
- He hasnt shared his card or PIN and didnt have a partner. 
- Hes disappointed the investigator didnt take into account that hes the victim of 
identity theft
- Mr H provided information from the Financial Conduct Authoritys website about 
unauthorised transactions and scams. 
- He didnt send the messages to Monzo about the disputed transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Generally, Monzo can hold Mr H liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for broadly the same reasons. 
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and can see that from 13 March 2022 
a different mobile device was used to access Mr Hs Monzo account (as well as his usual 
device) and that this resulted in Mr Hs account being blocked. On 14 March 2022 Mr H said 
to Monzo in its chat that his phone died, and he had tried to enter his account using his 
partners phone. Mr H asked that Monzo unblock his account.
Mr H asked Monzo to reset his account again on 18 March 2022. He was asked if hed 
recently changed his mobile. Mr H confirmed that he hadnt but that it may be his partners 
phone that was used. Mr H went on to ask if he could add his partners phone and details to 
the account and was told it wasnt possible and that only Mr H should have access to the 
account. Looking at Monzos audit report I can see that the same device that was used on 
13 March (and was identified as Mr Hs partners phone) was also used on 17 March 2022 
before Mr Hs request to unblock his account. 
Mr H contacted Monzo to unblock his account again on 24 March. Monzos records show 
that the device used previously, that Mr H identified as his partners, was also used on 23 
and 24 April 2022. And on 25 April Mr H told Monzo his partner had permission to use his 
card at the time because he was with his mum who was unwell. Mr H asked Monzo not to 
keep blocking his account as his partner was using it. 
Mr H continued to experience problems with his account being blocked by Monzo meaning 
that he had to follow security procedures to reset the account. I can see that this happened 
when Mr Hs Monzo account was accessed from his partners phone. Mr H became 
frustrated at having to contact Monzo and follow security procedures each time his partners 
phone was used to access his Monzo account and complained to Monzo. He asked Monzo 
to unblock his account and allow all payments in and out of the account. 
Each time Mr Hs account was blocked, and he had to contact Monzo to unblock the 
account, he was required to follow security procedures and his identity was verified. On a 
number of occasions Mr H was required to take a video for identification purposes (including 
during the period of the disputed transactions). So Im satisfied that it was Mr H that 
contacted Monzo when his account was blocked. 
I have set out quite a lot of detail here because Ive seen evidence that confirms the disputed 
transactions in this case were made from the device Mr H has identified as his partners. 
Given everything Mr H told Monzo, I consider it fair to conclude that Mr H was aware that his 
partner was logging into his account and consented to him doing so. So Im satisfied the 
transactions were authorised meaning that the FCA advice Mr H referred me to about 
unauthorised transactions isnt relevant to this case. 
The IP address used on the occasions Mr H said his partners phone was used to log into his 
account has been used consistently from March 2022 until the account was closed, including 
during communications with Monzo about the disputed transactions. When this point was 
raised with Mr H, he said he didnt send messages to Monzo about the disputed transactions. I find this unlikely though, especially given the messages came from more than 
one IP address and Mr H knows all about his complaint. 
I also find it strange that a large sum was credited to Mr Hs account immediately before the 
disputed transactions took place and that Mr H didnt notice them until around ten weeks 
after they started. 
Im aware that there were also cash withdrawals abroad. Whilst Ive seen evidence which 
confirms that Mr H didnt travel abroad during the period when the withdrawals were made, 
that doesnt mean he didnt authorise them. 
Mr H says he hasnt shared his card or security details with anyone else, and theres 
seemingly no explanation as to how his details came to be compromised. In the 
circumstances, the only plausible conclusion is that either Mr H made the transactions 
himself, or gave his card and details to somebody else, thereby giving his consent and 
authority for payments to be made on his behalf. Mr H confirmed in the chat with Monzo that 
his partner had access to his card and permission to use it, so it seems more likely to me 
that Mr H allowed someone else to use his card to make the cash withdrawals. And although 
Mr H says the police confirmed hes the victim of identity theft he hasnt provided any 
evidence of this. 
Account closure
Monzo made the decision to close Mr Hs account without notice. It says that in doing so it 
has relied on its terms and conditions. These state that Monzo may close an account with 
immediate effect if a customer has given a third-party control of a Monzo account, phone, 
card or PIN. The evidence I have seen leads me to believe its more likely than not that Mr H 
shared his log in details, card and PIN. So I consider Monzo acted reasonably and in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account in closing it without notice. 
Overdraft 
Given what I have said above it follows that I consider Monzo acted reasonably in holding Mr 
H responsible for the overdraft on his account when it was closed. I also think Monzo was 
right to communicate with Mr H about the outstanding sum and to make him aware of the 
consequences of not paying it. 
Overall, Im satisfied Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman