DRN-3598936
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly recalled 
its Bounce Back Loan and closed its account. 
Ps Director, Miss T, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
In September 2020, P was successful in applying to Metro Bank for both a business current 
account and a Bounce Back Loan. A loan of £50,000 was drawn down at the start of 
October. 
Shortly after the loan had been drawn down, Metro Bank decided to conduct a review of Ps 
current account and its Bounce Back Loan application. While the review was ongoing, 
Metro Bank restricted Ps access to the account.
Upon concluding its review, Metro Bank decided to terminate Ps Bounce Back Loan facility. 
The bank also decided to close Ps account, and it used the remaining funds held in the 
account to pay down the amount P owed on the loan. Ps account was closed in November.
Miss T complained about Metro Banks decision, she felt it was unfair that Ps Bounce Back 
Loan had been recalled and its account closed. But Metro Bank rejected Ps complaint. So, 
because Miss T still felt that P had been treated unfairly, she referred Ps complaint to our 
service. 
An investigator here looked at what had happened. In summary, he said:
Metro Bank had carried out appropriate checks, as it was entitled to do, in-line with 
the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and in-keeping with its legal and 
regulatory requirements.
 
Upon its review, Metro Bank had legitimate concerns over Ps eligibility for its Bounce 
Back Loan and also its current account. Specifically, the bank couldnt see anything 
to evidence the level of turnover P had declared in its loan application. Metro Bank 
also considered the nature of Ps business to be outside of its general risk appetite 
and, as such, considered P ineligible for the current account.
P couldnt provide anything to satisfy Metro Banks concerns. So, the bank ended the 
loan agreement  and closed Ps account  in line with the applicable terms and 
conditions. This was a reasonable course of action in the circumstances.
Miss T had refused to provide any evidence to support Ps turnover, demonstrating 
its eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan. And in the absence of such evidence, there 
wasnt anything to suggest Metro Bank had acted unfairly. 
Metro Bank agreed with what our investigator said. But Miss T didnt accept the 
investigators findings. In response, she said that the Bounce Back Loan Scheme allowed for 
her, as Ps director, to self-certify Ps turnover  which is what shed done. She felt that she 
wasnt required to give any evidence of turnover and, moreover, that Metro Bank wasnt 
allowed to conduct a review unless repayments had been missed, which wasnt the case 
with Ps loan. Additionally, Miss T said she hadnt received any notice that Ps account was 
going to be closed.
Our investigator reviewed Miss Ts comments, but he didnt change his mind. He said that 
while he agreed the Bounce Back Loan Scheme did rely upon online self-certified 
applications, lenders were still required to keep things under review. Metro Bank had several 
legal and regulatory obligations to meet and, in carrying out the checks that it had here, the 
bank was ensuring those duties were satisfied. Also, the investigator said he had seen that 
Metro Bank did write to P  care of Miss T  about the account closure. 
Miss T still disagreed, and she asked for an ombudsmans decision. She reiterated that she 
remained unhappy with what had happened. And she also maintained that she hadnt 
received any notice of Ps account being closed. She said that if such evidence had now 
been provided, then this had been done fraudulently. 
So, as no agreement has been reached, Ps complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ps Bounce Back Loan
I know Miss T feels very strongly that Metro Banks decision to review, and then end, Ps 
Bounce Back Loan was unfair. But having reviewed what happened, I agree with the findings 
of our investigator  for much the same reasons. 
Initially, Metro Bank said it recalled Ps Bounce Back Loan because it had decided to close 
Ps account. But Ive seen that Metro Bank also had concerns about Ps turnover and, in 
turn, its general eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan. And, overall, having looked at what 
happened, I dont think Metro Bank acted unreasonably or unfairly when it ended Ps 
Bounce Back Loan agreement. Ill explain why. 
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. For businesses established prior to 
1 January 2019, this percentage was to be based on their turnover for the calendar year 
2019. 
P, though, wasnt incorporated until late January 2020. In these circumstances, companies 
like P  which wouldnt have much trading history  were able to use a projected turnover 
figure when applying for a Bounce Back Loan. Thats what P did here. And Miss T, on Ps 
behalf, applied to Metro Bank for a loan of £50,000  that means P needed to have a 
turnover of at least £200,000 to qualify for that amount. 
Although Ps loan was then approved and drawn down, and some of the funds utilised, 
Metro Bank was entitled  and expected  to continue to keep matters under review. This is 
in line with its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider 
legal and regulatory requirements. And following further review of Ps application, the bank 
couldnt identify anything to support the projected turnover that had been declared. 
So, with all of that in mind, I dont think Metro Bank did anything wrong in reviewing things in the manner it did, given its valid concerns over Ps eligibility for the loan it had applied for 
and received.
I know Miss T disagrees with that. Shes pointed out that because applications were self-
certified by company directors, Metro Bank shouldnt have needed  or, in her view, been 
permitted  to ask for further evidence of Ps turnover. But while Miss T is quite right that 
applications were self-certified, that doesnt mean that lenders had to simply accept any 
figure that a company director might have stated as their companys turnover. 
Rather, lenders were entitled to ask for supporting evidence to back up such projections. 
And I dont think it was unreasonable of Metro Bank to do so in Ps circumstances, given the 
large level of turnover projected for a company that was only around eight months old. 
Metro Bank explained to our service that, should P be able to provide evidence which backs 
up its projected turnover, it would re-review things. And Ive also noted that our investigator 
has asked Miss T for such evidence more than once. But Miss T has refused to provide any. 
And while she has her reasons for refusing, the fact is that  in the absence of such 
evidence  Ive seen nothing to suggest that the level of turnover P declared was an 
accurate or reasonable estimation. So, in my view, Metro Bank couldnt determine that P 
was eligible for the Bounce Back Loan it had received. 
Under the terms of the Bounce Back Loan agreement, Metro bank was entitled to terminate 
the loan and demand its full repayment in certain circumstances. That included where any of 
the representations made by P became materially misleading or incorrect. And taking all of 
the above into account, I think it was reasonable for Metro to conclude that the 
representations P made within its application were misleading or inaccurate and, as a result,  
terminate the agreement.
Additionally, Metro Bank also had the right of set off under the terms and conditions of Ps 
account and the loan agreement. In short, it was entitled to use the credit balance held by P 
in its account with Metro Bank towards the repayment of any amounts the company owed to 
the bank. So, I dont think Metro Bank did anything wrong in removing the funds from Ps 
account, and applying these to reduce the amount it was owed under the Bounce Back Loan 
agreement.
Overall, with everything Ive set out above in mind, I dont think Metro Bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it reviewed and ended Ps Bounce Back Loan agreement.
The restriction and closure of Ps account
Metro Bank has said Ps account shouldnt have been opened at all. Thats because the 
nature of Ps business fell outside of the banks risk appetite so, in essence, P wasnt eligible 
for the account. But the fact is that Ps account was opened and, ultimately, its down to 
Metro Bank to ensure that it assesses applications for its accounts correctly. Miss T was 
totally upfront about her business when she applied. So, I can certainly understand her 
unhappiness here.  
That said, a bank can make its own decisions about who its prepared to offer banking 
services to. And its important for me to explain that this service wont generally intervene in 
a banks commercial discretion. Sometimes, a bank will choose to end its relationship with a 
customer, and it doesnt have to give specific reasons for doing so  much the same as if P 
had decided to close its account, it wouldnt have needed to give a reason. 
When deciding to close an account, wed expect the bank to comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement. And, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied thats what Metro Bank 
did. The bank found P to be outside of its risk appetite, which is ultimately for Metro Bank to 
decide, and consequently ineligible for its current account. But in any case, putting that 
reasoning aside, I also think the bank was justified in reviewing its relationship with P in light 
of its legitimate concerns  as Ive set out above  over Ps eligibility for the Bounce Back 
Loan. So, overall, I dont think it acted unreasonably here. 
Ive noted that Miss T has said she didnt receive any notice that Ps account was to be 
closed. Metro Bank has provided me with a copy of the letter it says was sent to P, and I can 
see its correctly addressed. So, while I cant explain why Miss T didnt receive it  Im 
satisfied that it wasnt because of an error on Metro Banks part. And Ive no reason to 
believe the bank has falsely provided evidence. 
Overall
To sum up, I can understand Miss Ts frustration at what happened. But that said, I cant 
fairly conclude that Metro Bank has done something wrong here. I think Metro Bank had 
legitimate concerns over Ps eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan, and that it reasonably 
determined P wasnt suitable for its current account. So, with that in mind, I dont find that 
Metro Bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman