DRN-2771375
The complaint
Ms C complains that AssureLife Ltd cancelled her existing life and critical illness policy 
before replacement cover was fully confirmed. Shes now been left without cover. 
What happened
Ms C had life and critical illness cover with an insurance provider (Company A). On 
15 August 2019 Ms C was contacted by an adviser from AssureLife about reviewing her 
cover to get more favourable critical illness benefits. Ms C agreed and applied for cover over 
the telephone. But she didnt disclose that she suffered from diabetes. Company A accepted 
Ms Cs application and the new policy was put in place from 21 August 2019. Company A 
cancelled Ms Cs existing cover as of 28 August 2019 at AssureLifes request. 
AssureLife has told us that on 10 September 2019 Company A received a signed 
confirmation from Ms C dated 23 August 2019 with no amendments made to the information 
she gave during the telephone application. On 1 October 2019 Company A received another 
signed confirmation from Ms C dated 26 September 2019 where she amended the 
application form to say she suffered from diabetes. 
Company A then declined Ms Cs application for critical illness cover and wanted more 
information before deciding whether to offer her life cover. Ms C decided she wanted to keep 
her existing cover, at which point she discovered it had already been cancelled. AssureLife 
asked Company A to reinstate Ms Cs existing life and critical illness policy, but it said it was 
unable to do so. 
Ms C complained to AssureLife but it didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had acted on the 
information provided by Ms C as part of the application process  and it was her failure to 
initially disclose her diabetes that resulted in Company A changing the terms on which it was 
prepared to offer cover. AssureLife said it had followed the correct procedures and had 
made attempts to have Ms Cs existing policy reinstated or find her suitable replacement 
cover. 
Ms C brought her complaint to our service. She said she always intended to disclose her 
diabetes. But she was unhappy that her existing policy was cancelled before shed fully 
completed all the necessary paperwork for the replacement policy. She was also concerned 
about who had cancelled the policy  whether it was AssureLife or Company A, and how this 
shouldnt have been done before the new policy was put in place. Ms C also told us that 
AssureLife had been rude to her on the phone and that shed been provided with misleading 
and inaccurate correspondence about the new policy. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it in part. He confirmed that Ms Cs 
existing policy had been cancelled by Company A, on the instruction of AssureLife, a week 
after the new policy started. And that this was part of the service AssureLife provided in 
arranging the replacement cover that Ms C had agreed to. 
Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for AssureLife to have instructed the 
cancellation of the existing policy before Ms C had returned the necessary paperwork to 
Company A. Particularly as Ms C confirmed the application details were correct at the point 
of application, only to confirm more than a month later that she had diabetes. 
Our investigator also found that AssureLife had taken reasonable steps in trying to get 
Ms Cs existing cover reinstated. But he said this had ultimately been a matter for Company 
A. Our investigator did think a poorly handled telephone call between Ms C and AssureLife 
caused her unnecessary upset. So, he asked AssureLife to pay Ms C £100 compensation. 
AssureLife accepted our investigators opinion. Ms C disagreed and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said £100 wasnt enough to compensate her for 
being left with no life and critical illness cover, and that she shouldve been told her existing 
policy would be cancelled and given a 14-day cooling off period. Ms C maintained that 
AssureLife lied to her about who had cancelled the policy and sent misleading 
correspondence about the new policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint in part. I know Ms C feels strongly that 
shes been left without any life or critical illness cover because of a mistake by AssureLife. 
But as Ill go on to explain, I havent upheld that part of her complaint. 
Ive read and considered the whole file and listened to telephone calls between Ms C and 
AssureLife. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention 
any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I should first explain that this complaint is against AssureLife  not Company A. With that in 
mind, its important to understand the distinction between the actions of each business. 
Its clear from the telephone call Ms C had with AssureLife on 15 August 2019 that she 
agreed to replacement cover. Im also satisfied that AssureLife asked Ms C a clear question 
about her medical history  with specific reference to diabetes, and that she was told about 
the importance of providing accurate information. 
Based on the information Ms C provided, AssureLife fulfilled its role in organising the 
replacement cover with Company A, which included instructing Company A to cancel Ms Cs 
existing cover. Her new policy was in place from the 21 August 2019 and her old policy was 
cancelled from 28 August 2019. This all seems reasonable to me. 
Ms Cs main point is that her existing cover shouldnt have been cancelled until shed 
received and reviewed the necessary paperwork from Company A. Im afraid I dont agree 
with Ms C here. Its standard industry practice for insurance companies to put policies in 
place before asking a customer to check and confirm their details. The onus is then on the 
customer to make sure the insurer is made aware of any changes and/or omissions that 
might impact the underwriting of their policy as soon as possible. 
Company A accepted Ms Cs application on 20 August 2019  based on the answers shed 
given to AssureLife during the telephone call on 15 August 2019. I can see from the records 
that AssureLife contacted Ms C by telephone and email to confirm her existing policy would 
be cancelled. At this point, neither AssureLife nor Company A were aware of Ms Cs 
diabetes. And so, I cant say AssureLifes actions in instructing Company A to cancel Ms Cs 
existing policy was unreasonable. It was only at the point Ms C told Company A about her diabetes that the cancellation of her 
existing policy became an issue. And this isnt something I believe AssureLife couldve 
reasonably foreseen. As far as it was aware, Company A had accepted Ms Cs application, 
and put cover in place from 21 August 2019. And so, AssureLife met Ms Cs instruction to 
replace her existing cover with a new policy that better met her needs. 
I accept Ms Cs point that she fully intended to disclose her diabetes. But the position Ms C 
has found herself in has largely come about because she didnt tell AssureLife about her 
diabetes during the 15 August 2019 telephone application  rather she waited until 
26 September 2019. It was this disclosure that resulted in Company A retracting its offer of 
critical illness cover and offering life cover on non-standard terms. But none of this was in 
AssureLifes control. Nor was it responsible for Company As decision not to reinstate Ms Cs 
existing policy. And I think AssureLife did all it could to assist Ms C in trying to rectify the 
situation.  
Ms C says AssureLife lied to her about who cancelled the policy. Ive seen no evidence to 
support that. Its possible there was some miscommunication around who instructed the 
cancellation and who carried that instruction out. But given I dont believe the cancellation 
itself was unreasonable, I dont think this has any bearing on the merits of Ms Cs complaint.
Ms C has also talked about the misleading paperwork she received about her new policy 
and that she wasnt given a 14-day cooling off period. Ive not seen copies of this paperwork. 
But again, I cant link this to any action on behalf of AssureLife. If Ms C thinks the paperwork 
she was sent by Company A had an impact on how, and when she disclosed her diabetes, 
then she may wish to take that up with Company A. She may also want to ask about the 14-
day cooling offer period and whether that had any impact on Company As decision not to 
reinstate her existing policy.  
Looking now at how AssureLife communicated with Ms C during a telephone call, I agree 
with our investigator that it behaved unprofessionally towards her. Considering the impact 
this had on Ms C, I think the £100 AssureLife has agreed to pay is enough, and in line with 
what Id expect to see in similar cases. I appreciate Ms C thinks differently. But this payment 
isnt a recognition that Ms C is now without life and critical illness cover. Rather its for the 
unprofessional way in which AssureLife spoke to her. 
So, whilst I dont agree that Ms Cs existing cover was unfairly cancelled, I do believe shes 
entitled to some compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her by AssureLifes 
unprofessional behaviour on the telephone.  
Putting things right
Im satisfied the £100 the Investigator has mentioned is fair and reasonable and takes into 
account the distress and upset caused to Ms C. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. AssureLife Ltd should pay Ms C £100 
compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman