DRN-1936548
 
The complaint
Mr V has complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him 
a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr Vs opened his credit card account in 1993 but didnt opt for PPI at that time. It was in 
1996 that Mr V took out PPI by completing a postal application form.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr V disagrees with the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V originally recalled being sold the PPI at the same time as applying for the credit card. 
He said that, having received the invitation to apply for the card by post, he rang Amex and 
was told that hed get a preferential interest rate if he also took out the PPI. He said this was 
the basis on which he decided to sign up for the credit card.
On receiving the assessment from our adjudicator that explained that the PPI had been 
taken out some three years after the card account had been running, Mr V says that his 
recollection of being offered a favourable interest rate could equally have applied to a credit 
card limit increase. He says he still definitely remembers a phone call but doesnt now recall 
whether it was a cold call or whether he called Amex in response to a mailshot. Mr V says he 
particularly remembers the call because his decision to take out the policy on the card went 
against his usual stance of not buying PPI.
In its final response letter, Amex offered to refund an element of commission, in line with 
FCA guidelines. Mr V views the fact that Amex received commission on the PPI as further 
proof that he had interaction with a sales adviser. However, as our adjudicator has 
explained, the type of commission being talked about here is what Amex received from the 
policy underwriter over the lifetime of the policy. It is not the sort of commission that a 
salesperson gets for selling a particular product.
Mr V has queried the dates of when the card and PPI were taken out. He thinks that Amex 
might have mixed up different cards that he had. However, the card in question is an Optima 
branded card. Ive seen the application form for the Optima card and Mr V signed it on 2 
June 1993. Ive also seen the separate application for the PPI which clearly states that it is 
for the Optima card. The date of sale is not visible on the form but Amex has provided a 
copy of the PPI welcome letter that it sent Mr V once he had returned the application form 
and this is clearly dated 13 August 1996.
The PPI application form doesnt say anything about the purchase of PPI leading to a 
preferential interest rate on the card. The PPI welcome letter also doesnt mention anything 
about enjoying a lower interest rate. As Mr V already had the credit card, he would have 
easily been able to see if he was benefitting from a lower interest rate after taking out PPI 
than before. I consider that this is something that Mr V might have challenged at the time, 
particularly as hes said that he only took out PPI for that reason. Mr V cancelled the policy in 
2002. He says he believes he did this because he realized he wasnt receiving the promised 
benefit. If that was the case, then its perhaps surprising that Mr V didnt make a complaint at 
that time.
I have no doubt that Mr V had provided his honest recollection of events. However, the sale 
was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory has faded. The PPI 
application form is a postal form that an applicant would usually complete at home and then 
return, without any input from Amex staff members. It could be that Mr V rang Amex upon 
receiving the form. Mr V has asked what possible incentive he could have had for taking out 
the PPI. However, based on the available evidence, I am not persuaded that Mr V was told 
that hed receive a preferential interest rate in return for taking out PPI.
Mr V already had the credit card, so he cant have thought that the PPI was a condition of 
the credit agreement. Ive thought about all the things Mr V has said but, on balance, I 
consider that Mr V must have had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it for that reason, 
even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Ive found that Amex didnt recommend the PPI to Mr V, so it didnt need to ensure that it 
met his needs. But it did need to provide Mr V with enough information for him to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
The application form would have given Mr V a broad sense of what the PPI did  that it 
would cover his monthly credit card repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment. I dont think Mr V would have decided to take the policy out 
without knowing anything at all about it. 
Mr V would have received sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay. Mr V has said that he had savings. But having the policy would 
have allowed him to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would 
have been a difficult time. Mr V has also said that his family would help. But other people 
cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can change. Overall, looking at Mr Vs 
circumstances at the time, I consider that Mr V had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Amex didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr V wasnt affected by any of those 
things. Overall I find that, even if Barclays had done more to highlight the terms more clearly 
to Mr V, I dont consider this would have made a difference to his decision to buy the PPI for 
the reasons Ive already explained. Which means that Amex doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr V. But Amex has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr V because:
Amex got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr V about that. Because Amex didnt tell Mr V, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Amex has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
Mr V would like to be refunded all of the commission. In this case, Amex made Mr V an offer 
of compensation in relation to the level of commission it received thats in line with the 
methods set out by the FCA. But Mr V wants Amex to do something different.Ive looked at the particular circumstances of Mr V and his complaint to see if theres 
anything that would mean Amex should do something different  if the remedies set out in 
the FCAs rules dont lead to fair redress for Mr V. But there isnt anything to suggest to me 
that the redress offered by Amex isnt fair. Therefore, I consider that Amexs offer is a fair 
way to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that the policy wasnt mis-sold. So American Express Services Europe 
Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
But American Express Services Europe Limited does have to pay back to Mr V any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should 
make this payment to Mr V now if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman