DRN-2057433
The complaint
Mr B complains FCE Bank Plc (FCE) has unfairly refused his request to extend his existing 
finance agreement. 
What happened
On 4 May 2017, Mr B entered into a PCP agreement with FCE. The payments, of £263.61 
were to be made for 38 months, this was 0% APR with a final balloon payment of £7,379.00 
due to be paid on 1 August 2020, if he wanted to purchase the vehicle. Due to the present 
situation with Covid-19, this has been extended to October 2020. At the end of the 
agreement Mr B has three options. He can return the car with nothing further to pay, part-
exchange it for another vehicle or pay the final balloon payment and keep the car.
On 29 June 2017, FCE were notified by a third party that Mr B had requested to enter an 
Individual voluntary agreement (IVA). FCE agreed to accept the application and Mr B has 
kept up to date with his monthly payments in line with the agreement.
As he approached the end of the agreement Mr B wanted to part exchange the car but didnt 
think this would be possible due to his IVA. He asked FCE to refinance the optional final 
payment, allowing him to continue his existing monthly payments. He explained this the car 
was essential to him both professionally and personally and this would be the only way for 
him to keep the car. FCE advised him this was not an option within his agreement.
In its final response dated 27 April 2020, FCE didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it 
accepted the IVA application and acknowledges all monthly payments have been paid to 
date, but Mr Bs request to finance the optional final payment of £7,379.00 isnt one of the
options under the agreement that he entered into. It explained it will consider a request to 
refinance a balloon payment, but this means a new credit search, another underwriting 
decision and ultimately if it could be agreed, another finance agreement. It explained due to 
its underwriting criteria, FCE would not offer further finance to anyone in an IVA. 
It said if Mr B wished to keep the car, he would need to source finance from an alternative 
provider in order to settle he agreement on 1 August 2020 (extended to October 2020). It 
explained he still had the option to part-exchange the car or return it.
Mr B was very unhappy with this outcome. It found it unfair, having made all his payments, 
that FCE wouldnt consider extending his agreement. He referred his complaint to this 
service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. She found FCE had acted fairly. She said whilst 
she appreciated Mr B said he can afford to keep making monthly payments as he has done, 
it wasnt reasonable to ask FCE to make an exception to their underwriting criteria, as this is 
outside our remit. She sympathised with Mr Bs financial position and understood this matter 
had affected his health but didnt ask FCE to do anything further.
Mr B disagreed. He feels he is being discriminated against by virtue of entering into an IVA 
agreement. He cant take up any of the options at the end of the agreement, other than 
returning the car. This will leave him with no car and no possibility of acquiring a further 
vehicle other than possibly on high-interest terms. He feels his payment history with FCE 
should be considered and given the flexibility the finance companies have in the current 
climate with the impact of Covid-19, he doesnt feel its fair that FCE wont allow an 
extension to his agreement or a re-finance option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, Im in agreement 
with the investigator. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, Id like to say I understand Mr B has had a lot to deal with and I understand that 
entering an IVA has been difficult and I sympathise with the decision hes had to take, and 
the health issues hes faced as a result of the stress this has caused. I understand that he 
has been meticulous in making his agreed payments and he has clearly articulated his need 
for his car.
But, as the investigator has already said, the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to 
resolve individual complaints and to award redress where it is appropriate. Im not the 
industry regulator, and I dont have power to make rules for financial businesses, direct that 
they change their processes, or punish them. That is for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
What I must consider is whether FCE acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B.
The terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement stipulate the options available to 
Mr B at the end of the term. These arent in dispute, but as Mr B has entered into an IVA, he 
wants to look at a different way of restructuring the finance to enable him to retain the car. 
But, Im not able to direct FCE on how it should carry out its underwriting policy nor am I able 
to hold it accountable for any options that may be unavailable or more expensive to Mr B 
because he has entered into an IVA. 
So, although I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, I cant say FCE has 
acted unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman