DRN-4423992
The complaint
Ms S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) wouldnt refund 
money she lost in a scam.
What happened
What Ms S says:
Ms S is represented by a third-party firm of solicitors, but I will refer to Ms S as the 
complainant.
Ms S sister was going through a divorce and invested some funds to help her pay legal 
fees. In June 2020, Ms S sister invested money into crypto investments with Bright Finance, 
whod advertised on TV and claimed to be reliable and trusted. Her initial investment was 
£3,270. Ms S sister was told she had funds valued at £168,990. But when she wanted to 
withdraw money from the platform, she couldnt. 
Ms S was very concerned about her sisters well-being  she was feeling suicidal and 
depressed, especially in the light of her divorce. Her sister needed money to pay for her 
divorce and for housing. Ms S then contacted the scammers (Bright Finance) to try to 
resolve matters for her sister. She was contacted by persons associated with the scammer, 
and they seemed genuine and knowledgeable. She checked the websites of Bright Finance 
and Luno, and they appeared genuine and professional. She wanted to withdraw her sisters 
funds. To do this, she was told she had to pay commission and this she did - £5,731.77. 
After that, she made a succession of payments, with the reasons given as: proof of liquidity; 
payment of tax and fees; and synchronisation of her personal wallet in Luno.
No funds were received, other than a payment of £780.27. Ms S then contacted the real 
Luno company and was told she had been scammed.
Ms S says first direct shouldve intervened in the payments and warned her she could be the 
victim of a scam, but didnt. Each payment was made without any questions being asked. 
She said first direct should be responsible for her losses and refund the money.
The payments were:
Date Pay
eeAmount Method Currency
3 August 2020 A £5,731.77 International 
paymentGBP
6 August 2020 A £8,800 International 
paymentEuro
12 August 2020 B £24,210.87 (refunded 14 
August 2020)International 
paymentGBP
17 August 2020 B £24,210.87 International 
paymentEuro
21 August 2020 B £26,720.70 International 
paymentEuro
4 September 2020 C £16,899.00 Online payment  
mobile phoneGBP
7 September 2020 C £82,000.00 International 
payment  phone 
instructionGBP
8 September 2020 Cre
dit(£780.27)
9 September 2020 D £26,000.00 (refunded 16 
September 2020)International 
paymentGBP
17 September 2020 D £26,000.00 International 
paymentEuro
13 October 2020 C £30,000.00 International 
paymentGBP
3 November 2020 C £10,520.59 International 
paymentGBP
Total loss £230,102.66
What first direct say:
Ms S complained to first direct in July 2022. First direct said some of the payments were by 
debit card and couldnt be refunded (this was a mistake  as they were all international 
payments either online or by phone banking). And the other payments were to an overseas 
bank and did not fall under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). They 
didnt refund any money.
Ms S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said first direct shouldve intervened in 
the first payment of £5,731.77 and asked Ms S more questions than they did. It was a 
telephone payment, so first direct had the opportunity to do so. Had first direct asked more 
questions at that time, the scam wouldve been discovered and unravelled. And so after that, 
Ms S wouldnt have made the further payments. 
Our investigator said Ms S should bear 50% of her losses - as she didnt take reasonable 
measures to avoid them. She was paying out more than £200,000 to withdraw her sisters 
money  which was said to be worth £168,990, and this shouldve been questioned by Ms S. 
She shouldve carried out more due diligence on the firms involved. He could see Bright 
Finance wasnt registered as an authorised or regulated firm; and Trust Pilot also carried 
several warnings about the firm at the time, saying other investors had been scammed.On recovery, he said first direct did what they could, but as the payments were to overseas 
banks and beneficiaries, nothing could be recovered.
Ms S (through her advisors) didnt agree. She said:
- First direct should easily have seen that as the first payment related to bitcoin, it had 
the characteristics of a scam. Ms S could then have been warned about the 
possibility of a scam. As it was, she went on to make the further payments and she 
lost a substantial amount of money  the entire contents of her account. Ms S said 
first direct should bear 75% of her losses.
First direct also didnt agree. They said:
- It was unclear what Ms S stood to gain from the payments, other than helping her 
sister out. This had been confirmed in Ms S call to first direct on 11 July 2022.
- Effectively, Ms S was loaning the money to her sister, so it wasnt clear how Ms S 
lost any money.
- They asked if correspondence between Ms S and her sister had been evidenced 
regarding the payments.
- No party had seen any evidence of her sisters investments. So for Ms S to attempt 
payments of over £270,000  gave rise to the plausibility of the scam.
- Why were the payments made to four different payees, one of which was a crypto 
currency exchange and three were foreign companies?
- Ms S behaved very carelessly in making the payments and should bear 100% of her 
losses.
Our investigator pushed back to both Ms S and first direct and didnt change his view. So  
Ms S complaint has come to me.
I made a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Ms S has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Ms S didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider first direct should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to a UK beneficiary 
and in this case, the payments were made an overseas account. 
I need to decide whether first direct acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms S 
when she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
I looked at Ms S account  and whether its reasonable to have expected first direct to have 
intervened in the payments. 
Ms S used her account for everyday payments and receipt of her salary. There were some 
previous large payments such as:
- £4,400  March 2020
- £1,150  March 2020
- £1,350  July 2020
- £4,500  August 2020 (after the first payment was made to the scammers)
I can see that Ms S held balances of over £200,000 in her first direct account, and her 
account was almost drained of funds after the series of payments were made.
First payment - £5,731.77  3 August 2020: 
This was to a new payee and was to an oversea bank/ beneficiary. So  while the amount 
wasnt out of line with some of Ms S normal account activity, I think first direct shouldve 
asked Ms S more questions than they did. I listened to the call. The call handler asked 
where Ms S got the payee details from. Ms S said, email and phone  Ive been talking to 
them all day. The call handler asked why she was making the payment. Ms S replied a 
financial thing theyre doing, finishing off bitcoin stuffcashing out
Ms S confirmed it was a payment she was expecting to make, and that she was happy to 
proceed. 
Ms S argues that when she mentioned bitcoin, first direct shouldve then intervened strongly 
and asked her more questions and warned her about a possible scam. Although I agree with 
that  I also need to consider whether Ms S wouldve gone ahead anyway  and I think she 
would have. I say that  as she was very confident on the call about the payment and gave 
the impression it was a normal thing for her to do. And, given how strongly she felt she 
needed to help her sister, Im persuaded that she wouldve gone ahead and made the 
payment anyway. And here, Im mindful that she thought that at that stage, she needed to 
pay £5,731.77 to release her sisters investment of £168,990  so I think its more likely than 
not that she wouldve gone ahead. 
So  I dont agree that the first payment shouldve been stopped, so I looked at the 
subsequent payments.Payments - 6 August 2020 (£8,800); 12 August 2020 (£24,210.87) (refunded 14 August 
2020); 17 August 2020 (£24,210.87) and 21 August 2020 (£26,720.70):
First direct confirmed they didnt intervene in these payments. I consider they should have  
they were out of character for Ms S, were high value international payments, three of which 
were in a currency, and three were to a different payee to the first one. And one payment 
was refunded and then made again  which looked odd. Ms S had now made, or attempted 
to make, payments totalling £89,671 and in a three-week period. There was now a pattern of 
high value payments which shouldve caused a concern to first direct. 
I think its therefore reasonable to have expected first direct to intervene and ask open, 
probing questions, but they didnt. If they had, they wouldve found out that these were 
payments in respect of a bitcoin investment  which was a typical of a scam. Ms S wouldve 
outlined how the contact had been made with the scammers, and how she had been 
instructed by the scammers, and what the payments were for. I saw no indication that Ms S 
had been coached by the scammers to answer questions in a certain way, so its more likely 
than not the scam wouldve then been uncovered.
Looking at the point at which first direct shouldve reasonably intervened  I think its fair to 
say this shouldve been at the point of the payment of £8,800  as by then there had been 
two payments to a new international payee, in euros totalling £14,531. And so  I think its 
reasonable that first direct should refund the money paid to the scammers from that point 
onwards.
But for completeness, Ive gone on to consider what happened with the other payments.
Payment  4 September 2020 - £16,899:
First direct did intervene and called Ms S. They asked the purpose of the payment  and Ms 
S said, its payment for a business transaction Im doing. The call handler asked if anyone  
asked Ms S to make the payment and she said, by myself.
Payment  7 September 2020 - £82,000:
First direct called Ms S. She said she was doing a business deal and Ive paid them 
before. The call hander accepted this and released the payment.
Payment  13 October 2020 - £30,000:
First direct intervened and asked Ms S about the purpose of the payment. Ms S said it was 
financial business, getting money later, shares and stuff. The call handler said that if it 
turned out to be a scam, no refund would be made.
So on these three payments  especially in the light of the other payments that had been 
made - I think its reasonable that first direct shouldve gone much further and asked more 
probing questions than they did. I also noted that a payment of £30,000 was received into 
Ms S account only four days before the payment of the same amount  which shouldve 
caused first direct to ask more questions. 
Payments - 9 September 2020 (£26,000  refunded); 17 September 2020 (£26,000); 3 
November 2020 (£10,520.59)
First direct told us they didnt intervene in these. I think its reasonable to say they shouldve 
done so  they were high value payments to overseas payees, some in currency, and 
followed on from the series of the other payments made. And one was preceded by a like refund.
Therefore, in the first instance, I consider first direct should be liable for all of the payments 
less the amount of the first one (£5,731.77). Thats a total of £224,370.89.
Contributory Negligence:
But thats not the end of the story here. I considered whether Ms S couldve done more to 
protect herself from the scam, and I think in this case  she could have done so. And there 
are several pieces of missing or contradictory evidence which also causes me to reduce the 
proposed refund. I think Ms S should only receive a refund of 50% of £224,370.89. I say this 
because:
- We asked Ms S for evidence of her sisters investments  and we werent provided 
with anything. 
- We asked to see Ms S sisters bank statements to show us the investments she 
made but werent provided with these.
- The justification for Ms S sending money to the scammers was to get back the 
money which her sister had invested  and couldnt get repaid. It wouldve been a 
reasonable thing for Ms S to consider here was something suspicious about what 
had happened to her sister and questioned the payments she was being asked to 
make. By not doing so, she put herself at risk.
- Ms S told us that while her sisters investment was worth £168,990, she had invested 
cash of only £3,270 in June 2020. So  for Ms S to pay more than £230,000 to get 
back £3,270  seems to me to be an unwise thing to do. 
- Even if Ms S sisters investments were worth £168,990, then for Ms S to pay more 
than £230,000  much more than its value - doesnt seem a sensible thing to have 
done.
- We asked Ms S for correspondence between herself and her sister but werent 
provided with anything.
- We saw WhatsApp chats between Ms S and the scammer dated from early 
September 2020. We asked to see some earlier chats but were told these arent 
available as they were on Ms S old phone and had been lost. So  I couldnt see 
what took place between Ms S and the scammer leading up to the first payments.
- Ms S was told she would get some money back from the scammer, but nothing was 
paid - but she continued to send money to them. I consider that a reasonable person 
shouldnt have done that.
- There were refunds of two of the payments  which Ms S shouldve asked questions 
about. But  she went ahead and repeated the payments again.
- The payments were made to four different payees  which Ms S shouldve asked 
questions about.
- As our investigator said, there were warnings online about Bright Finance  and that 
it was an organisation which was subject to scams. And the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) website showed it wasnt regulated or authorised. So - even though 
Ms S says she carried out due diligence, I think its reasonable that she shouldve seen this information, and not made the investments, or at least been more careful.
For all these reasons, I think its fair and reasonable that Ms S should bear 50% of the 
losses, and first direct bear 50%.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether first direct took the necessary steps in contacting the banks that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. We asked first direct about this  
and they contacted the overseas banks in July 2022 (when Ms S contacted first direct). But 
by then, no funds were left to recover. I think its very unlikely that any money wouldve
still been available to be repaid after so long in any case.  And it is rare for a firm to achieve 
any recovery from an overseas bank  as they have fewer obligations to do so.
My provisional decision is that first direct should refund 50% of £224,370.89, plus interest at 
8% per annum simple from the date of the payments to the date of settlement.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Ms S, through her advisers, accepted the findings, but first direct didnt. They said:
- It remained unclear that the loss was actually Ms S  that she made the payments 
on behalf of her sister believing that her sister would repay her. First direct said they 
hadnt seen enough of the mechanics of the scam and payments to be sure.
- The credit to Ms S account for £30,000 on 9 October 2020 (and then paid to the 
scammer on 13 October 2020) was a transfer from Ms S mother  so the loss wasnt 
Ms S loss, but that of her mother.
- If I accepted that the first payment of £5,731.77 wouldve gone ahead even if first 
direct had intervened, why would the next payment of £8,800 not also have gone 
ahead  given that Ms S stood to gain £170,000 if the payments continued. First 
direct said that the second payment would likely have also gone ahead.
- Ms S seemed more and more determined to make the payments and actively misled 
first direct on some of the others.
- Given that that complaint wasnt made until July 2022, 18 months after the payments 
stopped, first direct dont feel Ms S should benefit from interest of 8% per annum on 
the payments refunded.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of what first direct have said (and have said previously) is that theyre uncertain 
about whether Ms S lost the money, and whether she was scammed  or whether she was 
paying money to and supporting her sister. I thought about this when I issued the provisional 
decision, but also asked some further questions of Ms S (through her advisors). -In summary, we are satisfied that Ms S was the victim of the scam, and it was Ms S 
that lost her money:
- Weve seen the statements from the scammers, which show the payments going to 
them and the bitcoins being purchased for Ms S.
- Weve seen WhatsApp chats between the scammers and Ms S up to when she 
realised shed been scammed  these show how she was taken in and paid the 
money to the scammers.
- Weve seen Ms S sisters bank account statements  which shows she made her 
payments to the scammers in July 2020 - before Ms S started to make payments 
from her own account.
-Credit of £30,000 to Ms S account  she has told us this was from her savings 
account. I noted her statement indicated it may have come from her mother or sister. 
But  whatever the source of funds, and whether Ms S needs to pay it back to her 
relatives or not  we are satisfied she paid that money to the scammer (on 13 
October 2020), and therefore it was Ms S thats lost the money.
-Would the payment of £8,800 been made or not  while I appreciate the argument 
that first direct have made, of course we will never know  as they didnt intervene. 
But my judgment in the provisional decision was that a pattern was established by 
that time - and the second payment followed only three days after the first one; to an 
international payee and in euros. I think that was sufficiently out of character as to 
warrant intervention.
-Did Ms S mislead first direct: first direct were the experts here and were aware of the 
signs of scam payments. Whether or not Ms S misled them, or was evasive, the calls 
I listened to (for the later payments where first direct did intervene) were brief and 
first direct didnt question what Ms S said or ask for any further information. For 
example, we wouldve expected questions such as:
- Why are you making the payment?
- Who to?
- For what purpose?
- How did you hear about the investment?
- How were you contacted about it?
- Where did the money come from that youre investing?
- What do you know about bitcoin investing?
- Have you made bitcoin investments before?
- How were you given the bank account details where the money was to be paid to?
There werent any of these reasonable and necessary open questions asked, as shouldve 
been the case. Whether such questions wouldve been asked for the earlier payments 
(starting on 6 August 2020 through to 21 August 2020)  we will never know, as first direct 
didnt intervene. 
Interest of 8% per annum: First direct are aware that this service awards 8% simple interest 
per year to reflect the cost to a consumer of being deprived of money. Interest should be 
payable from the date of each payment because this is the point at which the loss should 
have been prevented.
So, having considered first directs arguments, my final decision is unchanged from the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct must:
- Refund £112,185.44 plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of the 
payments to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman