DRN-4248769
The complaint
Mr P complains Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) declined his claim on his 
motor insurance policy unfairly. 
Any reference to Accredited includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr P held a comprehensive motor insurance policy effective from September 2022. In 
January 2023, he was involved in a car accident. He says the third-party driver was 
intoxicated and caused the collision. Following the incident, Mr P says he was very shaken. 
So he walked to a nearby shop where he purchased and drunk alcohol to calm his nerves.
The police attended the incident and asked Mr P to perform a roadside breath test. The 
reading of the test was around 80 micrograms of alcohol per 100ml of breath which is more 
than the legal limit for driving a vehicle so Mr P was arrested. Mr P was later charged with 
not providing a further specimen of blood, breath or urine whilst in custody. 
Mr P made a claim on his motor insurance policy for the damage caused to his car during 
the incident. Accredited declined the claim as it said it was excluded under the terms of the 
policy. It pointed to section 17.3 of the terms which relate to drink and drugs. 
Mr P raised a complaint as he didnt accept what Accredited had said. He said the 
breathalyser test result was unreliable because hed drunk alcohol shortly before but after 
the incident had occurred. He also said he didnt refuse to provide a sample whilst in custody 
but he wasnt ready to do so when the police asked him to. And at the point he was ready, 
the police wouldnt let him. Mr P highlighted his Court hearing hadnt yet happened, so he 
didnt think Accredited should have declined his claim in the meantime.
In its final response letter, Accredited said the policy terms dont require the driver to have 
been convicted at Court for the claim to be declined. Mr P remained unhappy, so he asked 
our service to look into things. He provided a video of the police setting up the breathalyser 
test to show it wasnt reliable and witness statements to support his version of events. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Accredited had fairly relied on the 
police report as evidence of what had happened to decline the claim. She accepted the 
accuracy of roadside breath tests usually require a degree of tolerance. But, considering 
Mr Ps reading was more than twice over the legal limit of alcohol per 100ml of breath, she 
was satisfied it was more likely he was over the limit. Mr P didnt accept our investigators 
opinion so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint, I know hell be disappointed. Ill 
explain why. 
The terms of Mr Ps policy say, in summary, Accredited wont cover damage if the driver was 
found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol; is driving unfit through drink or drugs; or fails 
to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine without lawful reason. 
The police report from the day after the incident says Mr P had 82 micrograms of alcohol per 
100ml of breath when tested at the roadside  which is more than twice over the prescribed 
limit for alcohol. And I can see the police found this information sufficiently reliable at the 
time to arrest him. I appreciate Mr P has said he wasnt over the legal limit while he was 
driving but the reading was high because hed drunk alcohol afterwards. But from what hes 
said, it seems the police were aware of this and still relied on the results to arrest him for 
being over the limit. In any event, the policy terms say drivers wont be covered if they are 
found to be over the limit for alcohol and, for whatever reason, Mr P was when tested. So I 
think its reasonable for Accredited to have relied on this information. 
I know Mr P questions how accurate the breathalyser test was, particularly as he says the 
officer struggled to use it at the time. And hes given us a video to support this. But I havent 
seen enough evidence to make me think it was faulty. In any event, considering Mr Ps 
breathalyser results far exceeded the limit, Im satisfied even if there was a degree of 
inaccuracy, its more likely he was over the limit.
I appreciate Mr P has pointed out that he hasnt been convicted in Court. But having looked 
carefully at the policy terms, I dont think theres any requirement for him to have been 
convicted for the claim to be declined. So I think Accredited has acted in line with the policy 
terms in this case. 
Accredited has also relied on Mr P not providing a specimen when in custody to decline his 
claim. Mr P says he just needed more time to provide the sample and hadnt refused to do 
so. As Im satisfied Accredited fairly declined the claim on the basis of Mr P being over the 
limit, I dont think this makes a difference here. But in any event, whilst Mr P mightve 
intended to provide the sample, he didnt when asked and he was charged for not doing so 
without lawful reason. As the policy terms say claims wont be covered in that situation, Im 
satisfied Accredited has declined the claim fairly. 
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision 
before 31 October 2023. 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman