DRN-3798433
The complaint
Mr L complains that Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. 
(Telefonica) added mobile phone insurance to his mobile phone contract without his 
consent. He said he didnt want the insurance. And asked Telefonica to refund the premiums 
hes paid.
What happened
Mr L had mobile phone insurance with Telefonica since June 2017. He said it had been 
unfairly added to his contract when he was upgrading his mobile phone. He said he had 
been charged £7.50 each month for 59 months since then.
Mr L said he didnt ask for the mobile phone insurance. And that hed never used it. He said 
it had been added to his account without his consent. And that he hadnt ever benefitted 
from it, as he didnt know he had it. Nor did he need or want to make a claim, even if he had 
known about it.
Mr L said that he first noticed he was paying a monthly premium for the mobile phone 
insurance when he downloaded an electronic statement to check the charges. He said the 
insurance wasnt listed on his bill as phone insurance. He felt this was a stealthy and 
deceptive way of defrauding customers. So he didn't realise it was on the bill. He said it was 
disguised under another name: "[phone provider name] refresh". And that it didnt appear on 
the online digital dashboard. He said that even now when going online it was almost 
impossible to view a clear bill and find it.
Mr L said that at the time of his upgrade he was asked about insurance. He said he had 
declined, because he felt that his phone wasn't of sufficient value to warrant insurance. And 
hed never broken one. 
Mr L complained to Telefonica on 19 April 2022. It issued its final response to the complaint 
on 22 April 2022. It didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had confirmed that the 
policy terms and conditions were issued and delivered to Mr Ls correct email address on 14 
June 2017. Telefonica said that the terms and conditions gave Mr L 14 days from receipt to 
review these documents and decide if the policy was appropriate. And that if it wasnt, he 
couldve cancelled his policy without charge or penalty within that period. 
Unhappy, Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator asked Telefonica for a 
copy of the upgrade call recording to demonstrate if the insurance was properly discussed 
and disclosed to Mr L. Telefonica said that they were unable to provide this as the call had 
been taken by the mobile phone provider.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt it was reasonable to 
assume that Mr L had received the policy terms and conditions. And that he shouldve been 
aware of the policy and payments being deducted. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that Telefonica had added the policy without 
his knowledge or consent. And that our investigators decision put the obligation on 
customers to notice the error. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review. 
I issued my provisional decision on 13 October 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I dont consider that Telefonica have provided sufficient 
evidence that Mr L consented to the addition of his policy, or that he knew it existed before 
he raised his complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
I would first like to say that Ive had to make my provisional decision with very little of the 
information I would like to have seen. Without a copy of the June 2017 call recording, its 
impossible to confirm what was said when Telefonica said that Mr L had asked for the 
insurance to be added. So Ive had to make my decision on this complaint based on the 
information available to me.
Ive also not been provided with copies of Mr Ls phone statements. 
I would be grateful if either Mr L or Telefonica could provide this service with a copy of the 
phone recording or a copy of the relevant phone statements between now and any final 
decision. But to date, theyve been unable to.
Mr L said he neither asked for the insurance or consented for it to be added to his policy.
Telefonica said that theyd sent Mr L policy details to his confirmed email address. And that 
these included his cancellation rights on the policy. These gave him the right to cancel within 
14 days from the date he received the full policy documents from them. They also said that 
the insurance premiums were listed on his phone statement. So they felt he wouldve been 
aware of the insurance. 
Having carefully considered what both parties have said, and the limited information theyve 
both provided, Im more persuaded by Mr Ls argument that it shouldnt be a consumers 
responsibility to spot an insurers error before an insurance policy the consumer didnt ask 
for is cancelled and refunded. 
I say this because Ive seen no evidence that Mr L requested the insurance be added. He 
said he didnt ask for it to be added. And Im satisfied that hes given a reasonable 
explanation about why he wouldnt have asked for such insurance. 
I acknowledge that many consumers wouldve noticed the additional amount they were 
being charged each month on their phone statement. But Im persuaded that Mr L didnt 
notice until he raised his complaint. I say this because Mr L has told this service that the 
insurance charge wasnt listed clearly as such. So it wasnt clear what the charge was for. 
And while I asked Mr L to provide copies of his phone statements so I could see the charges 
myself, he has been unable to provide them. 
I also acknowledge that Telefonica emailed Mr L a copy of the policy details for the 
insurance policy they said he requested. I would normally agree that it would be reasonable 
to expect a person who had requested insurance to look out for the policy details. But in this 
case, Mr L said he didnt request the policy. So Im of the view that he wouldnt have been 
expecting to receive any policy details. And Im therefore persuaded that he didnt receive 
them. I say this because I consider that if he had received them at the time, he wouldve complained that he hadnt requested the insurance. 
Overall, I dont agree with our investigator that Mr L shouldve have a reasonable awareness 
of an issue shortly after the June 2017 call. And as Ive seen no evidence that Mr L 
requested the insurance be added to his policy, I intend to require Telefonica to refund all 
the premiums hes paid for the insurance policy. I intend to ask them to add simple interest 
at 8% each year to the refund. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L accepted my decision. Telefonica didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Telefonica must refund Mr L all the premiums he paid for the mobile phone insurance. And 
add 8% interest each year in acknowledgement of Mr L having been deprived of the use of 
that money.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I require Telefonica Seguros y 
Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. to take the actions detailed in the Putting things 
right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman