DRN-2467045
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr B says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
I sent Mr B and HSBC a provisional decision on 30 November 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the policy had been mis-sold. In that decision, I said:
HSBC dont have the original documents from the sale, because of the time thats passed. 
But it has given us sample documents from the time, to show what Mr Bs sale would have 
looked like. From those, I can see that Mr B wouldve been offered a choice about whether 
hed like PPI or not. In order to get the policy, it seems he wouldve needed to actively 
choose it, and then sign to confirm his choice  separately to signing for the agreement itself. 
And Ive not seen any wider problems with HSBCs sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence which shows that Mr B was misled here. So I think its most likely that HSBC made 
it clear Mr B didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose it at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so long.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it had to check that the policy was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr B was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. And it wouldve paid out on top of the work benefits he told us 
about and covered him for much longer. So the PPI couldve been useful for Mr B in case 
hed needed to claim.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I said above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Mr B in case something went wrong. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr B could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off 
taking it out. 
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But HSBC has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because HSBC didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
28 December 2020. But neither Mr B nor HSBC sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
What the business needs to do
HSBC should pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back to Mr B any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
That means HSBC should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr B the 
difference between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mr B 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman