DRN-3104916
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc made an entry about him on a fraud prevention 
database (CIFAS) following an unsuccessful mortgage application.
What happened
Mr H applied for a mortgage in 2017, which was declined by Santander. He raised a 
complaint as he found that Santander had recorded a fraud marker in his name with another 
fraud database  National Hunter. Santander responded in 2017 to say that it had done 
nothing wrong and that it may be beneficial for Mr H to obtain a copy of his Subject Access 
Request (SAR) from CIFAS. It provided a timeframe of six months to refer the matter to this 
service if he remained unhappy with the outcome. 
Mr H says he didnt take the matter further in 2017 due to a bereavement and he understood 
that the National Hunter marker would be removed after three years. 
In 2020, Mr H applied for a telephone contract but was refused. He made further enquiries  
including a SAR to CIFAS - and found that Santander had recorded a marker in his name, 
following concerns about the income hed declared on his mortgage application from 2017.
He complained to Santander about the marker. It looked again at the matter, including the 
further information provided by Mr H, but declined to remove the entry.  
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Santander consented to this service considering 
the recording of the CIFAS marker, and the recent decision not to remove it. The complaint 
made in 2017 was in relation to the National Hunter marker.
Our investigator considered the matter but didnt think Santander had acted unfairly. Mr H 
disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIFAS issues principles for its members (which are available on its website) which set out 
the standard of proof to be applied in making an entry on the database. Making an entry 
doesnt require proof of fraud or a criminal conviction. 
The standard to be applied is that Santander should have had clear, relevant and rigorous 
evidence such that it could confidently report the matter to the authorities should it choose to 
do so  so the standard is not proof of fraud, but reasonable suspicion of fraud. And 
although the principles were issued in 2018, I think they represented existing good practice 
and its fair to take the same approach in this case. Ive looked at all the evidence in this 
case. 
When a mortgage application is made, a lender will assess it and conduct relevant checks 
against the information provided and use their own lending criteria to help decide whether to 
lend.
 
Santander tried to verify the income Mr H had declared but was unable to. This alone should 
not be the reason for a firm to record an entry on a fraud prevention database  it should 
conduct further investigations before recording a marker. But I can see that Santander did 
this - it asked Mr H for details of his employers in 2017 and conducted checks on the 
company. The information it found was not consistent with the information provided. 
With these inconsistencies in mind, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly when it applied 
the marker in 2017. And having reviewed the information, I dont think that the decision to 
enter the marker was an unreasonable one.
Ive considered if, with the new information that Mr H has since provided, it would be fair for 
Santander to now remove the marker. 
On discovering the CIFAS marker in 2020, he complained to Santander. As it declined to 
remove the marker, Mr H also approached Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to try 
to find out what had happened and correct any information in order for the marker to be 
removed. It provided a record of Mr Hs taxable income for the financial year of 2017-2018. 
This information does not match the income declared on the mortgage application form. 
Mr H has said that these inconsistencies were likely caused by an error of his previous 
employer and that hes been told by HMRC to get in touch with them if he would like to 
correct the records - but hes unable to as the company is no longer trading.
I can appreciate the difficult position that Mr H is in and understand that hes now looking to 
take out a mortgage. Ive thought carefully about all the information provided. Having done 
so, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly when it declined his request to remove the 
marker in 2020. 
I say this as Santander gave consideration to the new information Mr H provided and made 
further enquiries. And I bear in mind that Santanders reasonable concerns in 2017 were not 
only about the amount of income Mr H declared. Im not persuaded the further evidence that 
has been provided shows the standard is no longer met. In all the circumstances, I dont 
think that Santander acted unfairly. 
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr H but having considered 
everything, I dont think I can fairly uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman