DRN-3369195
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of a charity, T, that it didnt receive the cash incentive it expected 
to when it switched its accounts from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to another 
bank. 
What happened
T held a number of accounts with RBS. T received correspondence from RBS in relation to a 
cash incentive that was available to certain eligible customers for switching their accounts to 
another bank.
In October 2020, Ts account with RBS ending *****241 was closed and successfully 
switched to another bank. However, no cash incentive was received by T following the 
switch. Mr B contacted RBS on Ts behalf to query why the incentive hadnt been received.
RBS said it was only the account ending *****127 that was eligible to receive the incentive. 
They explained that the scheme was ongoing if T wished to switch the correct account, but 
this offer was not taken up by T. 
Mr B complained to RBS on Ts behalf. He said the letter regarding the switch was 
addressed to the name on the account he switched out and was not the same as the name 
on the account RBS were saying was eligible. He also noted that the eligible account didnt 
meet RBS criteria to be the primary bank account for the connection, so it therefore 
shouldnt have been the account eligible to receive the incentive payment.
RBS final response noted that the letters sent to T regarding the switching incentive all 
confirmed the offer was for account ending *****127. They explained that T had 4 accounts 
all under the same business connection as the account that was switched out. They said the 
naming of the accounts was down to the account holder and not the bank. 
RBS also explained that the eligible account ending *****127 was a business account, but 
the account ending *****241 (which was switched) was a personal account and therefore 
ineligible to receive the incentive in any case.
Mr B was unhappy with this explanation, so he brought Ts complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter but said he didnt think RBS had done 
anything wrong. He said the letters from RBS about the scheme provided the account 
number of the account eligible to be switched but T switched a different account that wasnt 
eligible.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained my reasons below.
Switching process
The incentivised switching scheme was only open to eligible businesses who, for the most 
part, were contacted directly by RBS. In this case, all communications sent to T by RBS 
inviting it to participate in the scheme were sent in relation to account ending *****127. 
Mr B has argued that the account name on the letter matched one of Ts other accounts, 
which T considered to be its primary account, and that is why it chose to switch that account. 
Having reviewed the letters sent by RBS in relation to this scheme, I have seen that they 
have explicitly provided the details of the account that was eligible to be switched. If T was 
unsure of what account was eligible, there was a dedicated switching team that it couldve 
contacted to clarify the matter with. 
In addition, T was given the opportunity to switch the correct account during the course of 
the complaints process but didnt. So, T had an additional opportunity to benefit from this 
scheme but chose not to. As a result, I cant see that RBS have treated T unfairly or 
unreasonably by not paying the incentive as T didnt switch the eligible complaint.
Account set up
Mr B told us he doesnt think RBS applied their own criteria for the scheme fairly here. T 
considered the account that was eligible to be switched to be its deposit account and the one 
which had the lowest turnover and balances. He said the account T switched was the 
account T considered to be its primary account.
RBS said the account that was switched was a personal account but that the eligible account 
ending *****127 was a business account. As this scheme was only available to business 
accounts, the account T switched (ending *****241) was ineligible to receive the incentive.
RBS has been unable to provide me with the original documents from when the accounts 
were opened so Ive been unable to establish if there was an error in the original set-up of 
the accounts. I think this is understandable given the account opening dates back to a 
minimum of fifteen years ago. 
Although, Ive been unable see the account opening documents, I have seen the 
personalised offers that were sent to T detailed that the account eligible to receive the 
incentive was the account ending *****127. So, I dont think seeing these documents would 
make any difference to the outcome I have reached. 
Conclusion
So, to conclude, I havent seen anything to indicate that RBS have treated T unfairly or 
unreasonably here. Im satisfied that RBS applied the scheme rules correctly and that T 
didnt switch the account that was eligible to receive the cash incentive.
As a result, I wont be asking RBS to take any further action.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision, on behalf of B, on or before 10 March 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman