DRN-2400784
The complaint
Mr H complains about the treatment he has received from Lowell Financial Limited (Lowell) 
in respect of three credit card debts purchased by it, two in respect of two credit cards issued 
by a business that I will call C and one in respect of one credit card issued by a business 
that I will call V.
Mr H says he would like all three debts written off, for the three associated default notices in 
respect of the same (registered with credit reference agencies) removed and compensation 
for the non-financial loss he has been caused. 
What happened
After Mr H complained to Lowell it agreed, amongst other things, to:
not to pursue Mr H for any of the three debts 
record all three debts in its books as having a nil balance
return the debt purchased from V back to V
remove the one default registered in its name (in respect of the debt purchased from 
V) from Mr Hs credit file
not remove the two defaults registered in its name (in respect of the two debts 
purchased from C) from Mr Hs credit file
This offer was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that, in all the 
circumstances, Lowell didnt need to anything further.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view reiterating, amongst other things, that in his 
view all three defaults should be removed. And in not removing all three defaults, Lowell was 
in breach of its regulatory obligations to him  in particular its regulatory obligations under 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
The investigator considered Mr Hs response to her view but wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind. Therefore, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I can confirm that Ive come to 
the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. There is also very little I 
can usefully add to what has already been said.
Its clear Mr H has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr H will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
First, and for the avoidance of any doubt, Im satisfied that Lowell was entitled to purchase 
the three debts that it did, in the manner that it did and when it did. Im also satisfied that 
Lowell was, on purchasing the three debts, entitled to amend the three defaults registered by 
C and V to defaults registered by it.
I will now turn to what is the crux of Mr Hs complaint, that is given his current personal and 
financial position, his view of his future prospects and given what Lowell has agreed to do, 
its simply unreasonable and unfair not to remove all three defaults from his credit file.
In support of his view Mr H makes reference to CONC  in particular CONC 7.3.2, 7.3.4 and 
7.3.5. These say:
CONC 7.3.2 - When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should 
pay due regard to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its 
customers fairly.
CONC 7.3.4 - A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration.
CONC 7.3.5 - Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing 
one or more of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make token
repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if interest
and charges continue to be applied);
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's
repayments to an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments
unreasonably excessive;
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who
demonstrates that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able
to meet the customer's priority debts or other essential living expenses (such as in
relation to a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).
Now I appreciate Mr H doesnt agree, but Im satisfied in that offering to do what it has 
Lowell has met its obligations under the various regulations its bound by. Indeed, like the 
investigator, Im of the view that in taking the decision to not pursue Mr H for any of the three 
debts, Lowell has offered to do more than I might have expected it to do, or I might have 
been inclined to direct it to do. I understand Mr H holds the view that he will never be in the personal or financial position to 
clear the debts in question. And if Lowell has agreed not to pursue him for the debts in 
question it makes no sense to keep these debts recorded with credit reference agencies as 
being in default. However, in my view, Lowell has acted entirely reasonably in keeping the 
defaults registered that it has given these registrations reflect accurately the history and 
conduct of the accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that having agreed:
not to pursue Mr H for any of the three debts 
to record all three debts in its books as having a nil balance
to return the debt purchased from V back to V
to remove the one default registered in its name (in respect of the debt purchased 
from V) from Mr Hs credit file
Lowell Financial Limited need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman