DRN-1534615
 
complaint
Mr K says Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited (Arnold Clark) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr K took out a PPI policy and paid a monthly amount for it. It provided cover if Mr K couldnt 
work because of accident and sickness or unemployment and it provided some life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Mr K has given us his best recollections of the events of 2004. Ive thought 
carefully about what he said, including that he thought he had to take the PPI to get the loan. 
Arnold Clark has denied this. I think Arnold Clark made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take 
out the PPI and he chose to take it out. In saying this Ive considered that to get the cover Mr 
K had to complete an application form and direct debit form that were both separate to those 
required for the loan. To get the PPI Mr K had to sign on the application form for it. Had he 
not wanted the PPI there was a section he could have signed to decline it. So, I think it more 
likely that Mr K agreed to the PPI and knew this was something he didnt have to take out, 
even if he cant remember that now. 
Arnold Clark said it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K. Mr K thinks he was advised to take 
out the policy. I need make no firm finding on this matter because if I thought the PPI was 
recommended to Mr K, Arnold Clark would have had to take reasonable steps to make sure 
the policy was suitable for Mr K. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ks circumstances at the 
time, I think the recommendation was right for him. I explain why below.
Mr K was eligible for the cover, and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions from or limitations to the policies. Mr K has told us that his sick pay would 
have only lasted at his full rate of pay for six months and then it dropped significantly. And 
Mr K told us that he had no other means he could have relied on. The PPI would have paid 
out for up to 12 months if Mr K was too ill to work or if he became unemployed. So I think the 
policy could have been useful to Mr K.
The cost of the policy appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and appears to have been affordable.So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr K.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr K, Arnold Clark also had to give him clear 
enough information about the policy,so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible 
the information Arnold Clark gave Mr K was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for 
the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for Mr K, Im not persuaded better 
information wouldve made a difference to his decision to take out the PPI policy.
So I dont think that Mr K lost out as a result of anything Arnold Clark might have done 
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. And I make no award against 
Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman