DRN-4389468
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds decision to decline 
a claim made under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr S and Mrs S have a home insurance policy underwritten by RSA which covers their 
property and its contents. They took out the policy in August 2021.
Before that, in January 2021, Mr S and Mrs S had noticed an issue with the wall separating 
their driveway from their neighbours. This was due to a leak from a pipe which runs directly 
underneath the wall.
From April 2021, Mr S and Mrs S were in dispute with their water company about 
responsibility for repairs to the pipe. That dispute came to a conclusion in January 2023, 
when OFWAT determined that the water company werent responsible for the necessary 
repairs to the pipe.
At that point  in January 2023  Mr S and Mrs S made a claim to RSA and asked them to 
pay for the repairs to the pipe and wall.
RSA declined the claim. They said the damage had occurred prior to policy inception. That 
meant it wasnt covered under the terms of the policy. And they advised Mr S and Mrs S to 
speak to their previous insurer.
Mr S and Mrs S werent happy with that. They said Mr S had called RSA when he bought the 
policy and told them about the on-going (at that time) dispute with the water company about 
the pipe. And theyd said he neednt declare anything about that in his application for cover, 
given that hed not raised a claim with his previous insurer.
RSA responded to the complaint to say the policy terms were clear and the claim wouldnt 
be covered. The admitted their agent might have been clearer with Mr S during the calls and 
apologised for that. But they pointed out that the sale of the policy was non-advised and the 
terms were sent to Mr S before he confirmed his purchase.
Mr S and Mrs S werent happy with that outcome and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think RSA had done anything wrong.
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that the damage to Mr S and Mrs Ss wall pre-dates their taking out 
the policy with RSA. According to Mr S, the damage was first noticed in January 2021  and 
raised with the water company in April 2021. The policy was purchased in August 2021.
Theres also no dispute about what the policy terms say. They say the policy wont cover 
damage that occurred prior to policy inception. 
The terms are very clear. Theyre not unusual or onerous. And they were available to Mr S 
and Mrs S when they bought their policy. In short, if theyd read the terms, it would have 
been absolutely clear to Mr S and Mrs S that the damage to their wall would not be covered.
Insurance works like this. I believe there is a risk to my property or person. I ask an insurer 
to pay for any loss or damage should that risk become reality. The insurer makes a 
calculation about what to charge me for that service, based on the likelihood of the risk 
actually resulting in damage or loss. I then pay a premium which reflects that probability - 
and the cost of the loss or damage if it happens. 
It makes no sense at all, bearing that in mind, to think you can take out insurance to cover 
an event causing loss or damage after that event has already occurred.
So, its not surprising that most insurance policies explicitly state that pre-existing damage 
wont be covered. And thats perfectly fair, especially in circumstances like these where the 
policyholder (Mr S and Mrs S) were very much aware of the damage before the policy was 
taken out.
RSA are right to say that the sale of the policy was non-advised. Mr S rang to make some 
enquiries, but at no point did the agent say  or imply  that they were advising Mr S that the 
policy was suitable for his needs. The onus was still very clearly and very much on Mr S and 
Mrs S to check the policy terms and ensure that the policy was right for them.
As RSA said, the agent could have been clearer. They might have picked up the reason why 
Mr S mentioned the damage to the wall  and then made it clear it wouldnt be covered. But 
Mr S wasnt as clear as he could have been either. He never explicitly asked whether the 
damage to the wall would be covered. If he had, Ive no doubt hed have been told it 
wouldnt.
It was perfectly fair and reasonable then for RSA to suggest to Mr S and Mrs S, when they 
made their claim, that they should contact their previous insurer. Mr S originally told us that 
insurer had gone into liquidation. But the previous policy was in fact underwritten by a very 
large national insurer, which certainly hasnt gone into liquidation.
I think Mr S and Mrs S may have been referring to a broker or intermediary. But in any case, 
since our investigator issued her view in this case  and after Mr S asked for it to be referred 
to me for a final decision  Mr S has informed us that he has now raised the issue with his 
previous insurer.
Mr S says that nonetheless, RSA should return at least some part of the premiums he paid 
given that, in essence, he didnt have as much cover as he thought (that is, he wasnt 
covered for the damage to the wall).
Im afraid I dont agree with that  largely for the reasons set out above. The policy terms are 
clear. Theyre not unusual and they are fair and reasonable. They were available to Mr S 
and Mrs S before they confirmed their purchase of the policy. 
Since that point. Mr S and Mrs S have had all the cover they were entitled to expect  if anything else had gone wrong due to an insured event, RSA would have paid out. So, its 
not reasonable now to expect RSA to refund any part of the premiums Mr S and Mrs S have 
paid.
I have some sympathy with Mr S and Mrs S. Clearly they have a problem with the wall which 
was not of their making. And theyve found it difficult to establish who  if anyone  is 
responsible and/or whether their insurance will cover them. 
In other words, theyve had a very unpleasant experience  and a degree of inconvenience - 
which theyve done nothing to deserve. I can entirely understand their frustration about that 
situation. And Im pleased they are now discussing the issue with their previous insurer.
However, I cant justifiably conclude that RSA have acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr S and Mrs S when they sold the policy to them or when they 
declined the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman