DRN-2935082
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda 
Financial Services (VWFS) treated him during his time of financial difficulty as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr H entered into a 48 month personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement 
with VWFS for a new car. The cash price of the car was £26,049. He was required to pay 
£395 per month with an optional final payment of £9,865.
In April 2020, Mr H contacted VWFS by email to advise that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
he wasnt in receipt of any income and he wouldnt be able to meet his contractual 
payments. Mr H said he never heard back from VWFS and despite his further emails and 
telephone calls, he was unable to speak to them.
Mr H said he starting to receive communication about the account being in arrears and he 
contacted them in June 2020. He was told about a payment deferral for those impacted by 
the pandemic however he was advised as his account was two months in arrears, it was 
unlikely they would agree to it in his case. Mr H paid one months contractual payment in 
order to reduce the arrears. A three month deferral was agreed in June 2020. 
Mr H complained. VWFS apologised for the difficulties he experienced trying to contact 
them. They agreed to waive Aprils payment, confirmed he had paid for May and said Junes 
instalment would be considered as part of the payment deferral. They also confirmed the 
adverse information recorded on his credit file for April to June 2020 had been removed. 
Lastly, they offered to pay £150 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr H referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They accepted VWFS shouldve offered financial 
support to Mr H sooner in light of his financial difficulties however they felt VWFS proposed 
resolution was fair and reasonable. 
Mr H disagreed. In summary, he said despite not being in receipt of any income he had to 
make a payment in order to reduce the arrears so a payment deferral could be approved. He 
remained unhappy with the level of customer service received, he said he was told two 
contractual payments would be waived, he received arrears letters and he was told the 
compensation was offered to prevent the complaint being escalated to our service. He didnt 
believe the compensation was enough given the stress and upset that had been caused.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe VWFS have done enough to put things right.
In this decision, Ive considered whether I believe VWFS showed forbearance and due 
consideration in light of Mr Hs financial difficulty and whether they acted fairly when handling 
his request for a Covid-19 payment deferral. In this case, I dont think they have and Ill 
explain why.
The UK government imposed a nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic on 23 
March 2020 and I can see Mr H sent an email to VWFS on 1 April 2020 to say he would be 
unable to meet his contractual payments due to not being in receipt of any income. 
At the time of this email, there was no specific guidance about what to do for those affected 
by the pandemic. However there was existing guidance about dealing with situations of 
financial difficulty that I would expect VWFS to follow. The guidance is found in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which says A firm 
must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. 
On 20 April 2020, VWFS responded by email to ask further questions in order to get an 
understanding of Mr Hs financial circumstances and requested him to complete an income 
and expenditure form. Mr H answered the questions but he said he didnt feel it was 
necessary to complete the form as he wasnt in receipt of any income and the contractual 
payments under this agreement was his largest financial commitment. 
Mr H said he never received a response from VWFS and despite his attempts to contact 
them by phone he was unable to speak to anybody. I note he also sent emails to VWFS 
senior management complaining he hadnt received a response from them. 
However based on VWFS contact notes, I can see they sent a response to Mr H on the 
same day, that is, 20 April 2020. They said they didnt consider a payment deferral would be 
appropriate due to the impact it would have on the interest charged, the contract term and 
the value of the car. However they proposed two options, namely for an affordable 12 month 
repayment plan or a 60 day breathing space period. They explained a breathing space 
period would mean they wouldnt contact him or chase for payment in order to give him time 
to consider his finances. They confirmed Mr H wouldnt incur fees, or additional late payment 
interest during that time. If the situation hadnt changed after 60 days, they would agree to a 
suitable payment plan based on his affordability. They asked Mr H to confirm whether he 
wanted the 60 day breathing space applied to his account. In the circumstances, I consider 
this supportive measure proposed by VWFS to be fair as forbearance was shown as I would 
expect.
Based on what Mr H has said, it would appear he didnt see this email and VWFS contact 
notes dont show a response was received. On balance, I believe this email was correctly 
sent by VWFS. I say this because Mr H had correctly received their earlier email and it was 
sent in response within minutes of his email therefore Im satisfied VWFS did respond. 
However I appreciate for whatever reason, Mr H didnt see it therefore the 60 day breathing 
space wasnt set up. I accept Mr H tried on several occasions thereafter to call VWFS but he 
was unable to get through. Given the unprecedented nature of Covid-19, I can understand 
VWFS wouldve been very busy dealing with consumers who found themselves in similar 
situations like Mr H and this wouldve placed a great strain on their business operation 
including their phone lines. 
That said, I note at the time VWFS responded on 20 April 2020, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had issued its Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: draft temporary 
guidance for firms on 17 April 2020 setting out what rule changes it was intending to make to 
deal with the impact of Covid-19. The full guidance came into effect on 27 April 2020 which is seven days after VWFS email. 
The guidance stated that a firm should grant a customer whose finances had been 
negatively impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, a payment deferral for three months unless 
the firm determines (acting reasonably) its obviously not in the customers interests to do. 
The intention behind the guidance was to ensure consumers who wouldve otherwise been 
fine, wouldnt be negatively impacted by Covid-19. In this case, its clear Mr Hs financial 
difficulties were as a result of the pandemic so I think its fair to say the guidance would 
apply to him.
When he contacted them in June 2020 following letters about the arrears, he was advised 
that as the account was in two months arrears, VWFS couldnt agree to the payment 
deferral. Given what Mr H had already told them in April 2020, I believe it was clear the 
reason the account fell into arrears was as a result of his financial difficulties due to the 
pandemic.  
However Im not satisfied VWFS fairly took this into account, instead they determined the 
arrears was the reason to decline the payment deferral. While I recognise VWFS showed 
forbearance when Mr H first contacted them in April 2020, I believe it wouldve been fair and 
reasonable for them to have agreed to a three payment deferral in line with the FCA 
guidance from April 2020 without the need for the arrears to be cleared or reduced. 
Given Mr H wasnt in receipt of any income at the time, I can appreciate the trouble and 
upset it caused him to make the equivalent of one months payment. VWFS confirmed this 
was applied to Mays instalment and they agreed to a three month payment deferral from 
June 2020. However even doing so, the account wouldve still been one month in arrears 
(Aprils instalment) and adverse information added to his credit file.
VWFS accept there had been failings and in recognition of whats happened and by way of 
an apology, they agreed to waive Aprils contractual payment. I must take into account, even 
if the payment deferral or the 60 day breathing space had been set up, Mr H wouldve 
always owed this amount of money to VWFS. Theyve agreed to waive this payment which is 
the equivalent of £395 compensation which I consider to be a significant amount so I dont 
believe it would be fair to say they need to pay more. I note Mr Hs comments that he was 
told Junes instalment would also be waived however having listened to the relevant calls, 
Im satisfied he wasnt told this. The advisor said it would be considered and he was later 
told they wouldnt agree to it because they felt the waiving of Aprils payment was fair in the 
circumstances. I also believe VWFS has acted fairly by removing the adverse information 
from Mr Hs credit file for April, May and June 2020.
Ive carefully considered what Mr H has said and I can understand why he feels so 
strongly about this matter especially given his previous history with VWFS, I understand 
he has been a customer for many years and he wanted support during his time of 
financial difficulty. I dont dispute the struggles he had trying to contact VWFS, the stress 
placed on him during what was already a challenging time, receiving arrears letters and 
having to make a payment to reduce the arrears so the payment deferral could be 
approved. In light of the above, I believe trouble and upset has been caused but I 
consider VWFS offer of £150 compensation is reasonable, Im also satisfied he wasnt 
told this amount was offered to stop him from escalating the complaint to our service. Ive 
seen evidence that the compensation was credited to his account in April 2020 so I wont 
be asking VWFS to do anything further to resolve this complaint as Mr H has received the 
equivalent of £550 compensation.
Overall, I dont believe VWFS fairly applied the FCAs guidance about payment deferrals  
during Mr Hs time of financial difficulty due to the Covid-19 pandemic and because of this, it caused upset and worry. However I believe VWFS has done enough to put things 
right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman