DRN-3267377
The complaint
Mr M complains Society of Lloyds (Society) unfairly declined his property insurance 
claim. 
What happened
During the winter of 2020 Mr Ms kitchen walls and ceiling suffered water damage. Some 
months later he realised he could claim against a Society Housing Association Property 
Owners block insurance policy. So in July 2021 he asked Society to cover the damage. 
Society inspected Mr M's property. It said water had penetrated through a felt roof above the 
kitchen. It said the cause of that was a failure of the roof over time. It said that had happened 
due to a lack of maintenance plus wear and tear - rather than a cause of loss covered by the 
policy. So in August 2021 it declined Mr Ms claim, refusing to cover any of the damage.     
In September 2021 Society responded to a complaint from Mr M. It repeated its reasons for 
refusing the claim. Mr M had said the roof had been replaced about five years ago. Society 
said it would consider any evidence to support that, but hed failed to provide any. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He wants his claim paid and an award of 
compensation. Our investigator felt Societys decision to refuse Mr Ms claim was fair and 
reasonable. She didnt recommend it pay it or any compensation. Mr M didn't accept that 
assessment. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies dont usually provide cover against every cause of loss or damage. The 
policy Mr M claimed against insures against a range of listed events. Societys already 
provided the full list to Mr M, so I won't repeat them all here. However, the potentially 
relevant ones include accidental damage, escape of water from any tank or apparatus or 
pipe, flood and storm.  
I've considered if, based on the available evidence, the damage was likely caused by any of 
these events. Unfortunately for Mr M I can't say it was. Societys provided photos of Mr Ms 
kitchen and the felt roof. The felt roof looks in a poor condition. It doesnt look like damage 
that would likely be caused by storm. The photos support Societys position that water has 
penetrated the roof, damaging the kitchen, due to a lack of maintenance and wear and tear. 
I cant say storm was the probably the main cause of damage  that seems to have been 
the poor condition of the roof. It seems weather probably just highlighted the already existing 
problem. I cant say it should be considered as accidental damage or flood damage either.  
Mr Ms said hell provide an expert report to support his claim. Hes asked for a few months 
to do so. However, I've decided to consider the complaint on the information currently 
available to me. Mr Ms already had since August 2021 to arrange for an expert to inspect 
the damage and roof. In any event I think it's unlikely, considering what Ive seen from the 
photos, that hell be able to provide anything to persuade me the cause of the damage was 
one of the policys insured risks. If he does get something now, Id expect Society to 
consider it.  
Mr Ms explained about his medical conditions, the distress caused by the damage and claim 
 and from having to find the funds to repair his kitchen. I accept this has been a difficult time 
for him. But for the reasons given above, Societys decision to refuse his claim was fair and 
reasonable. As far as Ive seen it dealt with the claim promptly and in a sensitive manner.  
So I'm not going to make it pay Mr Ms claim or award him any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman