DRN-3407774
The complaint
Mr B and Miss R are unhappy with what Great Lakes Insurance SE did after they made a 
claim on their wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B and Miss R were due to get married in August 2020. Their venue was booked for three 
nights with the reception and ceremony taking place on 14 August. At the end of July they 
rearranged the wedding because of Covid-19 restrictions in place at the time. Although these 
were due to be relaxed from 1 August the Prime Minister announced on 31 July this would 
no longer take place. Mr B and Miss R made a claim on their policy for the additional costs of 
rearranging their wedding.
Great Lakes initially relied on an exclusion in the policy for claims arising directly or indirectly 
from a government regulation or act. However, following a Supreme Court judgement in 
early 2021 it said it would no longer do so. 
There was then further discussion between Great Lakes and Mr B and Miss R about whether 
cover was available under their policy. Ultimately Great Lakes said that wasnt the case 
because their venue was open on the date of their wedding and while only limited numbers 
of guests would have been able to attend this wasnt an insured reason for cancellation (or 
rearrangement) under the terms of their policy. 
Our investigator accepted the wedding and reception venue were open. However, given the 
Covid-19 restrictions only a small number of people would have been able to attend the 
reception. As around 60-90 people were due to attend he thought the event would have 
been radically different to what Mr B and Miss R had in mind. He accepted a reduction in 
numbers wasnt an insured event under the terms of the policy but on a fair and reasonable 
basis said Great Lakes should reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Great Lakes agreed to do that. It also agreed to pay 8% interest on any settlement from the 
date of claim until the date of settlement. And it offered to pay £300 compensation in addition 
to that. However, Mr B and Miss R were concerned Great Lakes might not pay the full 
amount theyd claimed under the policy. And they queried whether the compensation 
amount was fair taking into account the stress and frustration theyd been caused and the 
time theyd put into trying to get their claim paid. They asked for it to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. 
I let Mr B and Miss R know my initial thoughts by email earlier this month. In summary I said. 
I thought it was reasonable for Great Lakes to reconsider the claim against the remaining 
policy terms. And while I appreciated Mr B and Miss Rs concerns about what outcome it 
might reach thats something Great Lakes would need to reach its own view on first;
If they were unhappy with the amount Great Lakes did then agree to pay (or the time 
taken to reach a decision on this) thats something we could potentially consider as part 
of a fresh complaint;
Id taken into account the comments Mr B and Miss R made about the impact on them of 
what happened together with the circumstances of their particular claim. Having done so 
I thought the £300 compensation Great Lakes had offered was fair.
In response to my email Mr B and Miss R said:
They didnt agree receptions were able to take place in any form on the original booked 
date of their wedding meaning it couldnt have taken place at all. And a close relative 
was also classed as extremely clinically vulnerable and was shielding;
They didnt trust Great Lakes would now consider their claim fairly and drew attention to 
previous points where it had provided them with incorrect information. They didnt feel 
theyd be able to make progress without our continued involvement and regarded this as 
one issue and an ongoing complaint. And they were surprised Id concluded the 
proposed compensation was fair given what they regarded as the dishonest handling of 
their claim by Great Lakes;
They suggested this complaint should remain open until everything was finalised rather 
than a new complaint having to be submitted. And they said it would resolve matters if 
Great Lakes paid the claim amount theyd asked for plus 8% interest and the £300 
compensation. 
So Ive decided to reach a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr B and Miss R say receptions werent permitted at all on the day of their wedding. And I 
appreciate the proposed relaxation to allow receptions of up to 30 people was paused by the 
Prime Minister at the end of July. But my understanding of the rules is that a small 
celebration could potentially have taken place if it complied with the social distancing 
requirements in place at the time. 
I appreciate that would have meant only a very limited number of people could attend and 
would have been very different to what Mr B and Miss R envisaged. But a reduction in 
numbers isnt one of the reasons for cancellation or rearrangement covered by their policy.  
However, given thats such a radical change in numbers from what was originally proposed I 
agree with our investigator its right Great Lakes considers the claim on a fair and 
reasonable basis. Its agreed to do so.  As a result I dont need to consider whether the claim 
should also be covered on the basis a close relative was shielding. 
I understand why Mr B and Miss R feel this complaint should remain open until Great Lakes 
reconsiders the claim. But, as Ive explained to them, our role isnt to handle a claim but to 
reach a fair outcome on the complaint thats been brought to us. And their complaint was 
about the decision to decline their claim. Im satisfied that issue is resolved by Great Lakes 
agreement to reconsider the claim and to pay 8% interest on any settlement amount. I accept from Mr B and Miss Rs perspective this is all part of one ongoing issue but under 
our rules we can only consider complaints which a business has had an opportunity to 
consider first. Any complaint about the settlement of the claim cant be something Great 
Lakes has had a chance to consider because it hasnt yet reached a decision on that. So this 
isnt an issue which forms part of this complaint. As Ive said If Mr B and Miss R are unhappy 
with the decision Great Lakes now reaches (or the time taken to do so) thats something they 
can raise as part of a separate complaint. 
Finally, Ive considered whether the £300 compensation Great Lakes has proposed is fair. 
Mr B and Miss R have drawn attention in particular to the incorrect information they believe 
Great Lakes provided to them. I think theyre right to say it did wrongly suggest a claim 
would only be covered if their entire wedding had been cancelled. However, I can also see 
clarification was quickly provided on the actual reasons for the claim decline. And while Mr B 
and Miss R have said they believe Great Lakes acted dishonestly I think its worth saying it 
isnt our role to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct (thats the job of the Financial 
Conduct Authority). 
What Im considering is what the right amount is to recognise the impact on Mr B and Miss R 
of what Great Lakes got wrong. Taking into account what Mr B and Miss R have said about 
that impact (at what I appreciate was a difficult time) and the circumstances which led to 
their claim being declined it remains my view that £300 is an appropriate figure in this case. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes will need to accept the claim Mr B and Miss R made and consider it against the 
remaining policy terms to decide what amount should be paid to them. Given its now some 
time since Great Lakes agreed to do this, Id ask it to do so as quickly as possible.  
As agreed, it will also need to pay interest at 8% on any settlement amount from the date of 
claim until the date any settlement is paid. And it will need to pay them £300 compensation 
to recognise the impact on them of what it got wrong. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to put things right 
by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman