DRN-3604396
The complaint
Miss T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC recalled a direct debit payment. 
What happened
Miss T explains that she checked her account balance on 26 May 2021 to ensure there was 
enough money to cover a direct debit to a media company Ill call V. Miss T transferred £25 
to cover the direct debit. But the direct debit was returned later the same day. Lloyds sent 
Miss T a text message and asked her to pay funds into the account. 
Miss T made the direct debit payment up with V. Miss T also complained to Lloyds about the 
way it had processed payments on her account. 
Lloyds sent Miss T a final response and explained that pending payments had reduced her 
available balance. Lloyds said it prioritises pending payments over direct debits. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ts complaint but didnt think Lloyds had made 
a mistake or treated her unfairly. Miss T asked to appeal and said it wasnt clear that 
prioritising push payments was industry standard and that she remained of the view that 
Lloyds had unfairly returned the direct debit payment on 26 May 2021. Miss T also said the 
returned direct debit would have impacted her credit file if she hadnt taken action to make 
up the payment. As Miss T asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
involved and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single 
point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Lloyds has supplied information from its systems that shows how it processed the payments 
on Miss Ts account. The details were shared by the investigator within their view of Miss Ts 
complaint. Pending transactions Lloyds says Miss T carried out using her debit card meant 
the available balance reduced. And that meant, despite transferring £25 into the account to 
cover the direct debit, there were insufficient funds available. Im very sorry to disappoint 
Miss T but Im satisfied the information provided by Lloyds shows pending transactions did 
reduce her available balance to the point where there wasnt enough money to pay the direct 
debit. 
Miss T has sent in detailed submissions setting out her interpretation of how payments are 
processed by Lloyds and whether it does so in a fair way. Miss T has also told us she cant 
find any regulations or wider information that indicates Lloyds should prioritise pending 
push payments over pull payments, like direct debits. But Lloyds is free to decide how it 
operates and what payments to prioritise in line with its commercial discretion. 
In Lloyds final response it says pending card payments are normally deducted from the 
available balance straight away. But theres often a lag between the payment then being 
processed and funds debited from the account. As payments become pending with Lloyds 
the available balance is reduced. Looking at Miss Ts bank statement for the date, I note 
there were pending payments of £19.68 and a direct debit of £25. That meant even after a 
deposit of £25 was made there was insufficient funds to cover all the transactions.
So whilst Ive read and considered all Miss Ts points, I havent seen evidence to show 
Lloyds approach was unfair.
Miss T took steps to make the payment up with V and hasnt sent us any evidence to show 
the issue impacted her credit file. I appreciate making a manual payment caused some 
inconvenience, but as Im satisfied Halifax didnt make a mistake by recalling the direct debit 
I dont think its fair to tell Lloyds to compensate Miss T. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss T but as Im satisfied Lloyds dealt with her complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman