DRN-1223463
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mrs J says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI
What happened
Briefly:
In 1998 Mrs J took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a high street store card. 
Both were taken out in-store.
The policy provided protection for Mrs J's store card payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy benefit was 15% of the 
outstanding monthly account balance and it would pay out until Mrs J returned to work or the 
balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00 for every £100 Mrs J owed on 
the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs J was employed, and she said she had six months' or more sick 
pay.  She said her husband would've helped her with her repayments if necessary, and she 
said she was in good health at the time.
AXA's records show Mrs J's account ended in 2007.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available evidence showed that Mrs J chose to take out the cover. And there was 
nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs J disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs J's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
 
 
did Mrs J have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?I think AXA made it clear that Mrs J didn't have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand if she cant remember this because it was a long time 
ago. 
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs J's store card application. Looking at this I can see there 
was a separate section about PPI, which required a customer to tick a box if they wanted to 
take out PPI. And in Mrs J's case she did tick the box. If Mrs J didn't want to take out PPI 
she could've left this section blank. By having to tick a box and in the way it was set out on 
the application, I don't think Mrs J would've been given the impression that she had to take it 
out.
So, overall I think Mrs J chose to take out PPI, and she did so without undue pressure.
the information  
AXA says didn't recommend or give advice to Mrs J to take out PPI - and I've seen nothing 
to suggest that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable for Mrs J. 
But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information about the policy, so she could 
make an informed decision.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mrs 
J about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been - albeit I find it unlikely Mrs J would've 
agreed to take out PPI without knowing something about it. But I also accept that because 
the sale took place in a non-financial business there wasn't likely anything that could 
reasonably be described as a conversation about PPI. 
So I accept things likely didn't happen as they should have done.
But as I found above, I think Mrs J chose to take it out - so it looks like she was interested in 
and wanted this type of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear 
that it was inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and given her existing 
means it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs 
J off taking out the cover.
conclusion
So, while AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Mrs J PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think she'd have still gone 
ahead and taken out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means I dont think Mrs J has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Mrs J what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs J has said - including what she's said about not needing 
PPI because of her existing means and the fact she was in a secure job. And what she's 
said about the way we've looked at her complaint - she says we should be focusing on the 
mis-sold policy, not telling her that it might have been useful. But these points dont change 
my decision.
As both I and the adjudicator have said, it's likely that AXA didn't do all the things it should 
have done when it sold Mrs J the PPI. It's therefore not disputed that there were failings in 
the sales process. But this doesn't automatically mean I should uphold Mrs J's complaint - the Financial Ombudsman Service is not the regulator of the financial services industry, so I 
can't simply uphold a complaint on the basis that a business didn't follow the rules or 
guidance at the time it sold a policy. I need to go and consider whether Mrs J has suffered a 
loss as a result of the failings.
To do that I need to go on and decide whether, in my opinion, Mrs J would have still gone 
ahead anyway or whether she would have declined the cover instead had AXA given her all 
the information she needed.
And having carefully considered things, for the reasons I've explained above, I don't think 
Mrs J would've likely acted any differently - I think she'd have taken out PPI in any event.
I can reassure Mrs J that I have considered that she was likely entitled to sick pay. But the 
policy would've paid out in addition to this and it had the potential to clear Mrs J's 
outstanding account balance in full if she found herself in the unfortunate position of being 
out of or not being able to work for an extended period. Because of this, I think it could've 
proved useful to her (I consider its usefulness is a fair and reasonable consideration of 
establishing whether Mrs J has lost out) and would've helped her out at what would almost 
certainly be a difficult time.  
Mrs J says she was in a secure job - albeit I note she's also said she was ultimately made 
redundant from it years later. But the purpose of insurance is to protect against the insured 
risks becoming a reality in the future. So just because Mrs J hadn't been made redundant 
before she took out PPI isn't an indicator of the policy's inappropriateness for her
I'm mindful that according to AXA's records Mrs J paid a not insignificant amount in 
premiums over the lifetime of the policy. This suggests she had a relatively high balance at 
times. It may well have been Mrs J's intention at the time to use the card in this way thereby 
creating a balance worth protecting.
Finally, Mrs J has said her husband could've helped her out if needed. But I'm not persuaded 
this is sufficient reason to deem the policy unsuitable or worthless to Mrs J. The account was 
in Mrs J's name, so she was responsible for the payments. And it is for this reason, and 
those I've set out above, that leads me to conclusion not to uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold Mrs J's complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman