DRN-3900631
The complaint
Mr Y complains that HSBC UK plc (HSBC) suspended his account. He would like more 
compensation than HSBC has paid.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ys frustration that access to his account was restricted. HSBC has 
acknowledged Mr Y said in a telephone call on 21 September 2022 that he intended 
to make future payments to a business account. However, HSBC has explained that  
it must investigate payments held back by its automated fraud detection system as 
was the case on 23 September 2022. These systems are in place to protect 
customers and the bank. Having had a payment flagged I dont think HSBC could 
reasonably have ignored this.
I understand there was a further delay in making the payment as, in a telephone call 
on 23 September 2022,  Mr Y was reluctant to go through the necessary verification 
questions to release the payment. HSBC has apologised that Mr Y wasnt advised in 
this short telephone call that his online banking would be suspended. As Mr Y then 
didnt respond by the necessary time to a text request to contact the bank the 
payment was reversed, and his account suspended. In the absence of the 
information it needed, I dont think HSBC were wrong to take the action that it did.
HSBC has paid Mr Y £50 compensation, but Mr Y would like this increased to £500. 
However, I dont feel there are any grounds to do this. I appreciate the inconvenience 
to Mr Y of having his online account access suspended for a few days, but I 
understand he did have telephone access and use of a debit card. Also, Mr Y hasnt 
evidenced any actual financial loss because of HSBCs actions. Finally had Mr Y 
gone through the necessary verification information on 23 September 2022 
suspension of his account might not have been needed.
Finally, Mr Y has raised an issue of being refused a balance transfer option which, if I 
have understood him correctly, he feels is unfair treatment by HSBC. It wouldnt be 
fair for me to comment on this as it didnt form part of Mr Ys original complaint to us. 
So, HSBC has not had an option to consider this matter. If Mr Y wants to take this 
further he will need to raise this with HSBC. If he isnt happy with HSBCs response 
he can, of course, put in a further complaint to our service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman