DRN-2889067
The complaint
Miss G complains The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
unfairly declined her income protection claim.
What happened
Miss G is self-employed and holds income protection cover with Royal London, which is 
designed to pay a benefit in the event she is incapacitated due to illness or injury. 
In 2020, Miss G suffered a slipped disc and was unable to work. So she made a claim 
against her policy. However, Royal London declined the claim. It said the amount Miss G 
was receiving from a pension exceeded the amount of cover available under her policy. 
Miss G complained. And Royal London said it didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said it noted 
Miss Gs financial circumstances had changed since she took out the policy. And her income 
protection claim was ultimately turned down because the amount she was receiving from her 
pension exceeded the cover on the policy, so there was no benefit to be paid. 
Unhappy with Royal Londons response, Miss G brought her complaint to this service. She 
said she thought shed been treated unfairly. She explained how the income she received 
from her pension was being used, and said this had nothing to do with her illness. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
said they thought Royal London had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Royal London made no further comments on the investigators view. However, Miss G 
disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Royal London has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Having done so, I dont think Royal London has acted unfairly. And Ill explain why. 
Miss Gs policy schedule states the amount she is covered for in incapacity benefit each 
year is £6,000. And under the section of the terms and conditions headed How much we will 
pay the following is stated about other income. 
If the person covered continues to receive earnings from any form of employment or 
self-employment or payments from any pension arrangement while they are 
incapacitated, we will reduce the amount we pay by the total of all such earnings or 
pension payments.
The benefit limit on Miss Gs policy is £6,000 per year. And the terms say this amount is to 
be reduced by any other employment or pension payments which are being received during 
the claim period. 
The amount Miss G received annually from her pension was more than £6,000. So, Im 
satisfied it was fair for Royal London to turn down the claim, on the basis that there was no 
benefit to be paid. And because of this, I think it was reasonable that Royal London didnt 
continue to assess the medical evidence in support of the claim. 
Ive thought about what Miss G has said around the reasons she had taken her pension and 
how she was using that money. However, I dont think that makes a difference here. The 
policy terms make no further provision in relation to how the income is being used, only that 
any income received from any employment or pension is to be deducted when calculating 
the benefit payable. 
I do sympathise with Miss Gs situation and Im sorry to hear she has experienced financial 
difficulty. But based on the evidence Ive seen, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask Royal 
London to do anything differently in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman