DRN-2936413
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt allow her to have a 
student account with a fee-free overdraft, but that it did allow her to increase her overdraft 
limits on her two current accounts which were subject to overdraft fees and interest. 
What happened
Miss P became a student in 2017, she says that at this time she applied for a student 
account with Halifax but that her application was declined. Around the same time, she says 
she was allowed to increase the overdraft limits on her current accounts. 
In August 2018 Miss P was able to open a student account with Halifax, at this time her 
current accounts had overdraft limits of £1,500 and £500. Miss P says that throughout this 
period she asked Halifax for the overdrafts to be switched to her student account, but that 
Halifax would not allow her to do this. She says this meant she incurred fees and interest on 
her current accounts that she could have avoided. 
Miss P complained to Halifax about this, Halifax did not think it had done anything wrong. It 
said that it was entitled to decline any request for an overdraft and noted that when Miss P 
had asked for help in 2019 it had taken steps to assist her. Miss P was unhappy with 
Halifaxs response and so contacted our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ps concerns and didnt think Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss P unfairly. Miss P disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its relevant here to explain the role of this service when considering Miss Ps 
complaint. This service acts as an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) entity approved by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). As an ADR, it isnt our role to comment or make 
judgments on Halifaxs processes and policies. Only to ensure that theyve been applied 
fairly and reasonably in Miss Ps circumstances.
Having considered everything provided, I think Halifax has treated her fairly, so Ive decided 
not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss P says she applied for a student account in 2017 but that her application was declined. 
Halifax has no record of Miss P applying for a student account at that time. But even if I 
could see evidence that such an application had been refused in 2017 it would not be 
appropriate for me to say that Halifax had done anything wrong in declining that application. 
Halifaxs decision to decline Miss Ps application for a student bank account is a business 
decision and not one that I can look to overturn. Any business, including Halifax, has the 
right to decide what products and services they offer, if any, to their chosen customers.
 
Miss P ultimately opened her student account on 16 August 2018, at that time she already 
had overdraft limits of £1,500 and £500 on her current accounts. She says she wanted to 
transfer these overdrafts to her student account but was refused a limit on her student 
account. Ive looked at Halifaxs records of its contact with Miss P and cant see that she 
asked it about transferring her overdraft balance to her student account at that time.
Halifaxs notes do show that Miss P contacted it in January 2019 about difficulties she was 
having with her accounts, and that at this time she also mentioned that she was still a 
student and wanted an overdraft on her student account. Halifax paused fees on her current 
accounts for 30 days and suggested that Miss P arrange a repayment plan. Halifax also told 
Miss P that to apply for a student account overdraft she would need to go to branch, Halifax 
offered to arrange an appointment, but Miss P said she would do this at a later date. 
In May 2019 Miss P then contacted Halifax again, and this is the first record Ive seen of her 
asking about transferring the overdrafts from her current accounts to her student account. 
Halifax explained that it might not be possible to do this but that it would look into what could 
be done. Miss P was then approved for a £1,500 limit on her student account in June 2019.
Looking at the overdraft history of Miss Ps accounts, I cant see that she was ever given an 
increase in the overdraft limits on her current accounts when she had previously been 
refused the same limit on her student account. The overdraft limits of £1,500 and £500 on 
her current accounts were in place before she opened her student account. I can see that 
Miss P was refused an overdraft limit of £500 on her student account in 2018, but that was a 
business decision on Halifaxs part and again not something that I can overturn. 
Miss P was ultimately approved for an overdraft limit of £1,500 on her student account in 
June 2019 because she met Halifaxs criteria for the level of lending at that time. But this 
doesnt mean that Halifax was unfair to refuse her this additional lending previously. As with 
its decision to offer customers an account or product, Halifax is also within its rights to refuse 
further lending to its customers if they dont meet the lending criteria it has in place at that 
time.
I note that Miss P has also provided part of a document from 2017 which says she should 
have been entitled to up to a £3,000 overdraft limit on a student account. But she opened 
her student account in 2018, so this document doesnt apply to her account. And, in any 
case, as the document Miss P has provided explains, any overdraft limit on the student 
account would be considered on a case by case basis. A £3,000 overdraft limit would not 
have been guaranteed even if she had been able to open a student account at that time.
With everything Ive seen, I dont agree that Halifax did anything wrong in how it has handled 
the overdrafts on Miss Ps accounts, and Im also satisfied that when she asked Halifax for 
help in 2019 it took appropriate steps to assist her with managing her accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman