DRN-1519162
 
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc wouldnt let her make two increased payments to 
her mortgage without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). Mrs L wanted to make 
two higher payments of £40,000 a month.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mrs L wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at and what questions should be asked 
or answered. 
Ive carefully considered the arguments Mrs L has made about the contract, but were an 
informal alternative to the courts. It may be the courts would look at things differently, but we 
look at things based on what is fair and reasonable.
Mrs Ls mortgage offer makes a distinction between lump sum payments which would trigger 
an ERC and overpayments which wouldnt, but it doesnt define what each of those is. Mrs L 
says she wanted to make two overpayments rather than lump sum payments.
Clydesdale says that it defines overpayments as being affordable from normal disposable 
monthly income, and in its opinion the extra payments of around £40,000 a month that Mrs L 
wanted to make dont fall into that category.
If Mrs L wants to substantially repay this mortgage during the preferential rate period then 
shed have to pay an ERC; this is explained in the mortgage offer. The words overpayment 
and lump sum payment are often used in the mortgage industry, and its generally accepted 
that an overpayment is made each month for a sustained period, and would be expected to 
be for a modest amount; that is, an amount that is reasonably affordable from monthly 
income. Whereas a lump sum payment is an extra amount paid to the mortgage, perhaps 
coming from an inheritance, savings that have been built up or the sale of an asset such as 
another property. Mrs L says that as she is self-employed she doesnt have a regular monthly income, but 
unless her business is generating a profit that would allow Mrs L to sustainably draw over 
£40,000 every month from it then the payments she was looking to make would be classed 
as lump sum payments rather than overpayments. This is supported by the fact Mrs L only 
wanted to make two higher payments, and then revert back to her normal payment which 
was around £600 a month, but after the £80,000 had been paid off would have been much 
lower.
Im satisfied the extra payments Mrs L wanted to make for two months of £40,000 each 
wouldnt have been true overpayments from her normal monthly disposable income, but a 
way of trying to circumvent paying an ERC on a lump sum payment. As Im satisfied these 
payments can only reasonably be seen as lump sum payments which are intended to 
substantially repay this mortgage within the preferential rate period I believe that Clydesdale 
can fairly make them subject to an ERC.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Clydesdale didnt act unreasonably in 
turning down Mrs Ls request to make two higher payments without incurring an ERC and for 
that reason I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
Mrs L has mentioned that both before and after this Clydesdale has allowed her to increase 
her payments substantially, saying the most recent increase to £13,500 a month was flawed 
because the majority of the money going into her account in the period looked at was just 
transferred from another account (rather than being monthly income). I cant comment on 
other times Clydesdale agreed to increase Mrs Ls payments, all I can look at is the 
complaint brought to me which is that Clydesdale wouldnt allow Mrs L to make two 
payments of £40,000 each without incurring an ERC. If Mrs L remains concerned about the 
other decisions (that allowed her to make higher payments) then she can raise that as a new 
complaint directly with Clydesdale.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman