DRN-1742646
The complaint
Mrs V has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). She wasnt 
happy about the cost of her car insurance policy at renewal. 
What happened
Mrs V got her renewal quotation for her new policy in June 2019. The premium had 
increased significantly and as she wasnt happy about this she complained to LV.
LV explained that as she had two fault claims over the previous year, and three in total, this 
had affected the cost of the policy. This was because Mrs Vs risk had increased although it 
had allowed her no claims discount (NCD) as this was protected. As Mrs V still wasnt happy 
she complained to this service and chose to take her business elsewhere.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He asked LV 
various questions about the increase, but he was satisfied from the information it provided 
that it had acted reasonably. LV explained why the increase had happened and provided 
some evidence in support of its position. 
As Mrs V didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mrs V, but Ill explain why. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. But Ill focus on a few key issues and the main reasons for my decision.
I can understand Mrs Vs frustration as she doesnt think that she should be held at fault for 
all of the accidents she was involved in (which have had a big impact on LVs quote). And 
isnt happy that the cost of the policy went up significantly which I can understand.
But Ive looked at the information provided by LV which shows why Mrs Vs premium 
increased. This is commercially sensitive, but it is clear that the two fault claims that Mrs V 
was involved in the year before renewal, alongside the earlier fault claim, has impacted 
things heavily. 
LV takes account of a number of issues when it considers the risk a customer poses and 
three claims in five years, two in the last year, will always affect risk and so premium. This 
sits alongside a lot of other factors such as the risk address, the age of a customer and 
driving history generally amongst other things. And having looked at all of this and the data 
LV provided I think Mrs V has been treated the same as any other customer in a similar 
position to her. 
Im pleased to see that Mrs V managed to get her premium for less elsewhere and that this 
hasnt impacted on her too much. But I note that the premium was still a lot more than Mrs V 
paid last year and it is likely that this is for the same reasons LV has outlined to Mrs V.
Ive also looked into the claims for Mrs V to ensure that they have been looked at fairly by LV 
and I think they have. One of the two most recent incidents involved hitting a parked car 
which would always be marked as a fault claim against Mrs V. And the other incident has 
been marked as a fault claim as Mrs V reversed from her drive out into the path of another 
car on the road. As LV explained, the onus was on Mrs V to ensure the road was clear in 
undertaking her reversing manoeuvre. I know Mrs V feels the other driver was speeding but 
this is difficult to establish, and she appeared to accept that she would be held liable when 
she first notified the incident to LV.
Ive listened to that call and LV also explain that the accident was likely to impact her 
premium at renewal, which it has. LV did explain that her NCD would still be applied (as it 
was at renewal) but that the overall cost of the policy would go up before the discount was 
applied. 
So, although I can understand Mrs Vs frustration and why she chose to take her business 
elsewhere as she got her policy cheaper, I dont think that LV has done anything wrong. LV 
made its best offer, which was impacted upon by the three claims, and treated her in the 
same way as it would treat any other consumer with the same rating history as her.
 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman