DRN-4055366
The complaint
Mr S complains about the customer service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
and that it has unfairly closed his accounts.
What happened
Mr S has several accounts with Nationwide Building Society with which he has banked for 
many years. In September 2022 he complained to Nationwide about the customer service he 
had received on the telephone and in the branch when making transactions. He was 
unhappy about waiting times in the branch to speak to staff, that staff faced issues 
completing a transfer and the waiting times on the telephone. 
In its final response Nationwide said it hadn't made any errors. It explained that at busier 
times there could be a wait in branch and when calling its customer services team but that 
these waiting times were not excessive. It confirmed that support that had been in place for 
Mr S during the pandemic was no longer so because Mr S was able to visit the branch. 
Nationwide noted that Mr S had been unhappy with many elements of the service it had 
provided resulting in Mr S registering 47 separate complaints.
One month after the final response letter Nationwide wrote to Mr S again. It said it believed 
the relationship between itself and Mr S had broken down, so it had taken the decision to 
close Mr S's accounts. Mr S wasn't happy and brought his complaint to this service. He said 
he wanted to reverse the closure of his accounts. He explained he had a disability and 
several health issues.
Our investigator concluded that Nationwide didn't act unfairly in making the decision to close 
Mr Ss accounts. Mr S accepted that his relationship with Nationwide was at an end but 
requested compensation for the unprofessional way it handled the transitional period of 
closing his account and the customer service issues experienced. He said the very least it 
could do was offer some token compensation the way it handled the situation especially as it 
knew he had been a member of the building society for about 40 years.
Nationwide said it didn't agree. It said there were no failings in its service to Mr S and the 
account closures were only delayed following Mr S's objection to its decision and his referral 
to our service. Mr S asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr S won't take it as a discourtesy that I've condensed the complaint in the way that I 
have. Although I've read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think 
is relevant. If I don't comment on any specific point, it's not because I've not considered it but 
because I don't think I need to comment on it to reach the right outcome. I realise this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr S but having done so I won't be asking Nationwide to do 
anything further.
Mr S has accepted that the relationship between him and Nationwide has broken down and 
that his accounts have now closed. So it is left to me to decide whether it is fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide to pay Mr S the compensation he has asked for.
Mr S has told this service that he has a disability and several health issues. I've read through 
the contact notes and all the submissions by Nationwide concerning this complaint. I've also 
listened to three phone calls between Nationwide and Mr S. I haven't seen anything to 
suggest that Nationwide has treated Mr S unfairly. In its response to our investigator's view 
Nationwide said:
Mr S's local branch has a city centre location. But that there is rarely a 20-minute wait 
to be served.
Mr S is well known to its staff in the branch, and they have always tried to help him 
as much as they can during each visit. It said the member of staff who dealt with the 
transactions in question doesn't recall any issues with them and the payments on 
both days were made successfully. 
it spoke to the deputy branch manager who explained that the member of staff who 
served Mr S was exceptional with a great knowledge of transfer processes and 
always gives extremely good service to members that visit the branch.
Nationwide said Mr S's accounts were due to be closed in February 2023, but the 
closure was postponed after Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was 
waiting for our view.
I'm not disputing Mr S's testimony about the customer service. It's possible that he visited on 
busy days and perhaps had to wait longer than he would normally have to wait for a staff 
member to become available. I'm also not disputing that he had difficulty with the 
transactions. But from the evidence provided, the testimony from the branch and the calls 
I've listened to I haven't seen or heard anything to suggest the customer service was poor.
While I do understand that Nationwide did not stick to its timetable of closure of Mr S's 
accounts I think it's reasonable that the process slowed down when Mr S brought his 
complaint to our service. And I don't think it fair or reasonable for Nationwide to pay 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman