DRN-3073831
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied interest and charges to his overdraft 
when he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr As bank account with Santander had a £1,000 overdraft going back at least ten years. 
Mr A has explained that even though his monthly pay took him briefly out of his overdraft, his 
balance would quickly go overdrawn again. Mr A has told us that changes to Santanders 
overdraft charging structure made the problem worse and cost him more. 
In March 2021, Mr As account was closed and a default was applied to his credit file. 
Mr A complained to Santander but it didnt agree it had treated him unfairly. Mr A referred his 
complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld Mr As complaint 
and said Santander shouldve realised Mr A was experiencing financial difficulties by 
February 2014 so shouldnt have added more interest, fees and charges from this point 
onwards. The investigator asked Santander to refund all interest, fees and charges applied 
to his account from February 2014 onwards. The investigator also asked Santander to 
amend Mr As credit file. 
As no agreement was reached with the investigator, Ive been passed Mr As complaint to 
make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with the investigators view that 
Santander acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest, fees and charges 
from 25 February 2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr A were in no 
position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. Looking at Mr 
As statements, its clear that whilst his monthly pay would bring the balance out of the 
overdraft, within a few days he was consistently overdrawn again. 
As a result, Mr A paid additional interest, fees and charges which exacerbated their difficulty 
in repaying the outstanding balance. Im satisfied Santander didnt treat Mr A fairly which led 
to him incurring unreasonable interest, charges and fees. As a result, Im going to uphold Mr 
As complaint. 
 
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr A
To resolve the complaint Santander should:
Rework Mr As current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal in 25 February 2014 are removed
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr A to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr As 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 24 February 2014
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr A along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr As credit file
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander to settle in line with the 
above guidance.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman