DRN-3830390
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) 
handled a claim he made about a purchase on his credit card.
What happened
Mr H purchased a package holiday for him and one other (who I will refer to as Mrs H) priced 
at £5,158 from a holiday booking agent (the supplier) including flights and a cruise using his 
Virgin Money credit card.
Mr H and Mrs H flew out in advance of the cruise departure  but Mr H says that shortly 
before the ship was due to leave they learnt the supplier made changes to the original cruise 
itinerary. As a result they did not board the cruise and Mr H requested a refund for the cost 
of the holiday except flights. Mr H also requested the extra money he spent amending the 
flights home.
The supplier refunded Mr H a portion of the amount he requested  but not everything. So he 
approached Virgin Money for help. It considered the matter under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75)  but it refused to refund Mr H on the basis that 
there was no breach of contract by the supplier. However, it did credit him with £75 
compensation for customer service delays.
Our investigator considered how Virgin Money had handled the claim and upheld the 
complaint. He noted that Mr H was entitled to a refund under the terms implied by the 
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTRs) and that a 
failure to provide this was a breach of contract. He said that Virgin Money should refund Mr 
H the remaining amount he is claiming for the cost of the package including additional 
compensation to reflect the extra money he spent on alternative flights home.
Virgin Money did not respond so the matter has come to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 allows Mr H to hold Virgin Money responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier in respect of goods or service purchased using the credit 
afforded here. There are certain technical criteria that have to be met for a Section 75 claim 
to be valid. These relate to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the transaction, 
or the way the payment was made.
I am satisfied the criteria is in place in order for Section 75 to apply to the agreement 
between Mr H and the booking agent he paid for the holiday (the supplier). So, given Mr Hs 
issue, for me to find that a refund of any kind is due to him I would need to be satisfied there 
has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by said supplier.
For the sake of completeness, despite the booking being for more than one person I am 
satisfied that as the lead booker and person paying for the booking Mr H is entitled to make 
a potential claim against Virgin Money in relation to its total cost.
In determining the suppliers potential liability I do not appear to have been provided the 
exact terms and conditions from the time of booking. However, in the absence of these I 
have looked at archived and current terms in considering the likely contractual provisions 
that relate to this booking alongside the relevant law, particularly the PTRs.
For the PTRs to apply to a particular holiday booking certain criterion has to be met. I am 
satisfied this is the case here. Notably Mr Hs booking is a combination of passenger 
transport (flights and cruise ship transport in this case) and the provision of overnight 
accommodation combined and sold at an inclusive or total price meeting the requirements 
for the PTRs to apply to the travel contract.
The PTRs place liability for the performance of a package travel contract on the organiser of 
said package (the supplier here) and imply certain terms into the contract. Mr H and our 
investigator have mentioned Regulation 11 and 12 of the PTRs being particularly relevant. 
However, I am not persuaded they are in this instance. I say this because these sections 
appear to relate to changes and cancellation before the package commences. In this case, 
when Mr H refused to accept the changes the supplier proposed Mr H and Mrs H had taken 
the initial flights which form part of the overall package holiday booking  so the package 
had already commenced.
I consider the relevant sections of the PTRs in this instance to be Regulation 15 and 16. In 
this case Regulation 15 implies a term into Mr Hs contract with the supplier that it is liable 
for the performance the travel services included in the package travel contract and if it is 
unable to perform a significant proportion of travel services in accordance with the agreed 
package it must provide a suitable alternative at no further cost. If the alternative results in a 
package of lower quality than originally agreed the organiser must grant an appropriate price 
reduction.
In this case I am satisfied that as a result of port restrictions the supplier was unable to 
perform significant parts of the agreed package and considered it had to offer an alternative 
arrangement. It appears that as part of this alternative the itinerary was amended so that one 
of the stops was changed to an at sea day and the ultimate final destination of the cruise 
was removed and the boat was directed back to its original departure point instead. In 
addition to this the supplier offered a 10% price reduction to make up for what was an 
apparent downgrade in the original package.
I can see that Mr H wrote to the supplier to reject this proposal when he found out about it. I 
am satisfied that under Regulation 15 Mr H was able to reject the alternative arrangements 
on the basis they were not directly comparable to what was originally agreed in the package 
travel contract (Mr H also indicates that the price reduction was not adequate  which I think 
is also arguable). 
As a result of Mr H rejecting the proposed alternative arrangements I am satisfied that under 
the implied terms via Regulations 15 and 16 of the PTRs he is entitled to an appropriate 
price reduction. In this particular case I can see that Mr H and Mrs H decided not to continue 
with the cruise as a result of rejecting the proposed alternative arrangements. I dont think 
this was unreasonable considering the significant changes to the original package. So I think 
the cost of the cruise should fairly form part of the price reduction here.Mr H says he is not claiming the cost of the outgoing flights as he has accepted that his party 
benefited from these. I note they arrived at the destination about two weeks before the cruise 
was due to leave and Mr H said they used this time to visit family. 
The cost of the return flights forming part of the price reduction is something I have thought 
about too as Mr H has arguably received some benefit from these as a means of returning 
from a trip where he spent two weeks before the cruise took place. However, I note that the 
sole purpose of the trip was not just to see family for two weeks it was also to take a cruise. 
And had the trip not involved a cruise the cost of said flights or the arrangements Mr H made 
might have been quite different. I also note what Mr H has said about not claiming the 
outgoing flights in recognition of the degree of benefit received from the air transport 
provided in the package. So currently I am minded to say it is fair and reasonable the return 
flights form part of an appropriate price reduction but not the outgoing flights. 
I dont appear to have a breakdown of what the outgoing flights cost as part of the package; 
however Mr H says this is £1,138 and in the absence of any other information to the contrary 
this does not seem unrealistic or unfair. So all things considered it appears that under the 
PTRs Mr H is entitled to an appropriate price reduction of the balance of his booking being 
£4,020 . Mr H has also said he already received back £1,438 from the supplier too  so this 
should be deducted from any price reduction he is due leaving Virgin Money with £2,582 to 
refund. I think it also fair that it pays him 8% simple yearly interest on this from the date it 
declined the claim to the date of settlement.
Mr H has also claimed £370 consequential costs as a result of the suppliers actions as he 
had to change the times of the return flights. However, unlike our investigator I dont think he 
is able to claim these costs against Virgin Money in this situation. I say this because the 
supplier has pointed to the itinerary being changed due to port closures arising out of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. I believe this would likely constitute unavoidable and extraordinary 
circumstances as set out in the PTRs - and in this situation under the terms implied by 
Regulation 15 and 16 Mr H is unable to claim additional compensation for damages.  
It is worth noting here that the position regarding additional compensation is likely to be the 
same here even if I were to accept that the terms implied by Regulation 11 or 12 of the PTRs 
applied instead. I also note that nothing in the suppliers express terms and conditions would 
satisfy me that Mr H is contractually entitled to additional compensation in this situation  the 
terms I have seen appear to expressly indicate that Mr H wouldnt be.
I note that Virgin Money says it paid Mr H £75 compensation for delays in responding to him. 
Mr H has not indicated he thinks this is unfair and it doesnt appear to form part of his 
ongoing complaint so I have not considered it in great detail here. On the face of it this 
seems like a fair thing for Virgin Money to have done. I am writing this on the basis that 
Virgin Money has paid this compensation already but if it hasnt done then it should.
Mr H responded to my decision. He clarified that the outgoing flights did not cost £1,138 and 
in fact the round-trip flights cost £1,158 in total (and provided evidence to support this). He 
also said, in summary:
the cruise operator agreed to refund the £370 cost of amending the return flights 
showing it accepts liability for this
he raised his claim in May 2020 and it took until April 2021 for Virgin Money to give him a 
final answer
Virgin Money did not respond.In light of the information Mr H had provided I wrote to both parties with a rationale and 
proposal to:
factor in 40% of the £1,158 cost of flights as part of a fair price reduction
increase the compensation for distress and inconvenience to £150
Neither party added any further comments on this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has added anything that makes me think the substantive findings in my 
provisional decision (as copied above) should change. I still consider these fair and 
reasonable for the reasons given.
Mr H raised some things in response to my provisional findings which caused me to propose 
an alteration to the redress. I have dealt with the rationale for this in my recent 
correspondence to both parties but will repeat it here as it now forms part of my final 
decision.
I originally understood that Mr H was claiming the cost of the return flights as part of the 
remaining balance of the cost of the package. However, it appears this is not the case. Mr H 
has clarified that the £1,158 he did not originally request as a refund was for the round-trip 
flights in the package he booked - not just the outgoing leg. He has sent an email from the 
supplier to confirm this breakdown of costings which appears credible.
This indicates that Mr H considers he has benefited from the round-trip flights more than I 
originally appreciated. However, I also still think what I have said in my provisional findings 
about the return flights is broadly fair, in that although he has benefited from the flights in 
using these to see family abroad, the purpose of said flights was also to get to and from the 
cruise. Had the cruise not been a factor here he might not have had the same costs in 
respect of these flights. And I think overall it is difficult to agree he had the full benefit of the 
flights he paid for as part of the package which did not go ahead as originally planned. 
Deciding what Mr H should pay for the flights is not a scientific calculation here. I think that 
going out to see his family is not a minor benefit from what he has indicated. So I think it fair 
he pays for the outbound flights and a bit towards the return flights, but that also some 
money is refunded to reflect that he has ultimately not fully benefited from the package he 
booked  the flights of which form part of this. I propose that 40% of the £1,158 cost of the 
flights should be part of the fair price reduction to be refunded to Mr H for the package 
including interest.
Mr H has pointed out the cruise operator at one stage agreed to refund the £370 cost of 
amending the return flights and he has said this shows there is acceptance of liability for 
these costs. However, I dont think this changes the strict contractual position with the 
supplier as detailed in my provisional decision. Ultimately, in not refunding these costs there 
is no breach of contract by it either under the terms of its own contract or those implied by 
the PTRs. So I will not be directing Clydesdale to pay these. 
Mr H has also pointed out that he raised his claim in May 2020 and had a final answer in 
April 2021. However, I note the initial outcome to the claim was given in November 2020 . 
This was still not ideal  but in the favour of Clydesdale I also factor in the challenges around Covid-19 at the time and the sort of delays they were causing. I certainly think overall things 
could have been better here regarding response times and £75 does seem to be on the low 
side now that Mr H has commented. I therefore consider it fair to award an additional £50 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to reflect the overall delays in handling 
matters.
Putting things right
Mr H should get a partial refund of the £5,158 package holiday cost which breaks down as 
follows:
£5,158 with deductions as follows:
£1,438 received back from the supplier already
£695 representing 60% of the cost of the round-trip flights to reflect partial benefit 
received
Total: £3,025 to be refunded
He should also get £125 compensation - £75 of which I understand has been paid to him 
already  but if it hasnt it should be.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mr H 
£3,025 plus simple yearly 8% interest from the date it rejected his Section 75 claim to the 
date of settlement. If it has not already done so it should also pay him the £75 compensation 
for the customer service issues it identified plus an extra £50.
If Virgin Money considers it necessary to deduct tax from my interest award it should provide 
Mr H with a certificate of tax deduction so he may claim a refund from HMRC if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman