DRN-4174470
The complaint
Miss K complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) refuses to refund her losses after she fell 
victim to a scam.
Background 
In or around April 2021, Miss K contacted a company Ill call S after coming across a video 
online about its ability to help her invest her money. This company got her in touch with a 
manager working for the company, who would help her to manage her investments. 
Miss K followed Ss instructions and downloaded a remote access application, a trading app 
and opened a Binance account in her name. 
Miss K says she initially invested £250 into her trading app, and she could see that this had 
built up to around $700. She asked if she could withdraw some money and was told she 
could. Miss K hasnt specified how this initial payment was made but I can see a payment to 
Cryptopayin on 5 May 2021 leaving Miss Ks Revolut account via a card payment. 
On or around the 26 May 2021, Revolut said Miss K tried to pay £10,400 into her Binance 
account from her Revolut account. Revolut blocked this payment and sent Miss K an alert 
explaining that its system had alerted this transaction as suspicious which had been declined 
to protect her. It went on to explain that if she decided to make the payment again, it would 
not block it. But if she made the payment again, and it turned out to be paid to a fraudster, it 
warned she may lose all her money. It also sent her a link to more information about how 
she can protect herself from fraud. 
Miss K went on to make two payments of £5,000 and £5,400 on the same day. 
On 27 May 2021, Miss K received £496.72 into her Revolut account and she says this was 
the profit shed earned from her earlier investment of £250. 
Believing S was delivering and working as it was meant to, Miss K went on to make several 
more transfers to her Binance account, and then on to S to be invested. In total, Miss K 
transferred over £110,000, the last transaction taking place on 7 June 2021. 
On 8 June 2021, Miss K informed Revolut that she may have been the victim of an 
investment scam. She had tried to retrieve her money from the investment only to be told 
that she needed to pay more, or shed lose everything shed already invested. She 
subsequently lost access to her account and money and my understanding is she hasnt 
been able to retrieve any further funds. 
Revolut contacted the beneficiary bank to see if any funds remained but they eventually 
replied saying no funds remained. Revolut also explained that it would not refund her the 
money shed lost. 
Miss K raised a complaint explaining that shed been a victim of a scam and she didnt think 
Revolut had taken appropriate steps to protect her from harm. 
Revolut disagreed, saying it had blocked her first transaction to Binance, and given her a 
warning. It also tried to retrieve any remaining funds from the recipient bank. 
Unhappy, Miss K then referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator felt the 
complaint should be upheld and Revolut should refund the money Miss K had lost. He 
explained that Revolut had been aware that such scams were taking place since 2018, and 
had it called her rather than simply sending her an alert, it could have discovered the scam 
and prevented the losses Miss K suffered. 
Revolut disagreed. It felt that even if it had called Miss K, she would have informed it that the 
money was being used to buy investments and that she had already built a relationship of 
trust with S, so it doesnt think a call would have dissuaded her from investing with S. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 23 May 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Revolut did not make any further submissions. Miss K 
sought to clarify her understanding of one fact but did also accept my findings.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
 currently I intend to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator, and Ill explain why. 
To begin with, where customers authorise payments from their accounts, businesses such 
as Revolut are under an obligation to process such transfers. If consumers are the victim of 
a scam (like Miss K), the starting point is that consumers have to bear the losses. To be 
clear, Revolut did not scam Miss K and it is not the perpetrator of the scam. 
However, financial businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling 
victim to scams. Businesses therefore need to strike a balance between intervening in 
payments to prevent scams or financial harm, against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. So, I want to re-assure Revolut that I 
dont take this complaint lightly and have thought carefully about if and/or why it should bear 
the loss in this case. 
Revolut blocked a transaction for £10,400 before Miss K made any other payments to her 
Binance account. Its systems had identified this transaction as suspicious. And given the 
general nature of spending on her Revolut account prior to this, I think this was to be 
expected. Revolut says it sent her an alert (as set out above), and it didnt dissuade Miss K 
from continuing to send money to her Binance account. It feels that even if it had called her, 
it wouldnt have been able to stop her from making further payments. 
But I disagree as I dont think a written warning wouldve carried the same impact, in 
circumstances where Miss K already thought she was dealing with a legitimate company. 
So, I dont think this was a sufficient response to the fraud risk it did identify. Particularly as 
the warning weve been shown, gave no context as to why it might appear suspicious, or 
what warning signs Miss K should be looking out for. And Im satisfied that if Revolut had a conversation with Miss K, talking through what was going on, in line with its duty of care, it 
seems probable that Miss K would have been alerted about the scam in time and
stopped the first payment in its tracks. The fraud would have failed; and Miss K would not
have lost £10,400 or the transfers that followed in the following weeks. 
Miss K had only discovered this company online. She hadnt for example had extensive 
dealings with them in the past or been recommended them by any trusted friends or 
networks. She herself said shed had concerns about some negative reviews on online 
review sites and questioned the manager about them  although nothing online had 
suggested it was a scam at the time. I think given her lack of experience with the company 
and with investing/trading of this nature, she would have been open and forthcoming with 
Revolut and any warnings Revolut gave her following a discussion with them would have 
been taken seriously. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) published warnings about scams of this nature 
in mid-2018. Since early 2019, given the rise of such scams and warnings from the FCA, 
financial businesses have had time to digest these warnings and put mechanisms in place to 
detect and prevent this type of fraud. 
I agree with Revolut when it says that if it had called Miss K, I can see no reason why Miss K 
would have been anything but honest about what she was doing and Revolut would 
wouldve identified that the payment was going to her own Binance account for the purposes 
of a crypto investment. But I think it was clear from previous warnings from the regulator, 
that it was a common theme of this type of scam that consumers often moved money to an 
account in their own name before moving it on again to the fraudster. So, I think, if Revolut 
had acted appropriately, it would have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. If 
Revolut then probed further, as it should have, I think its likely that it would have discovered 
some other common features of the scam such as Miss K being provided with a trading 
account, having an account manager who was coaching her on what to do, and that the 
company she was communicating with wasnt regulated. 
These factors would have enabled Revolut to give her context and detail as to why she was 
specifically at risk of harm, rather than a general scam warning via an alert. 
I have to bear in mind that Revolut had knowledge of these types of scams, and had 
identified the transaction as suspicious and was in a position to share that information with 
Miss K. I have no reason to doubt, that had such an interaction taken place, Miss K would 
have heeded the warnings and trusted her Revolut account provider and not carried on with 
the transaction. Ive considered the possibility that Miss K might have been so taken in by 
the scam that she would have made the payments anyway, like Revolut says. But I dont 
think thats likely. Her dealings with S before the payment had been blocked by Revolut had 
been minimal and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Miss K was so enamored by S that she 
would have continued to transact despite Revoluts warning (as suggested by Revolut). 
Ive also thought about Revoluts comments about other financial institutions having 
previously held Miss Ks money and allowed the money to be transferred out of its account 
(much like Revolut did), which was eventually sent onto the scammers. Revolut felt it 
shouldnt be held liable for the losses alone purely because it was the last regulated 
business that held the money before it was moved onto an unregulated company (from 
which the losses occurred) and then on to the scammers. 
However, as explained above, the reason I think the complaint should be upheld and 
Revolut be held liable for the losses is because it missed a clear opportunity to prevent the 
loss, and had it acted in line with its duty of care, than it could have prevented Miss K falling 
victim to the scam. As explained by our investigator, I think Revolut noticed that the transaction was suspicious, and blocked it, but it didnt take adequate steps to prevent 
Miss K from the financial harm caused by the scam. Had it done so, I think it would have 
most likely prevented Miss K from falling victim to the scam and prevented the loss. So, I 
think it should reimburse the loss suffered by Miss K. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Miss Ks redress should be reduced for contributory 
negligence. I believe Miss K was a victim of a scam, and also understand that prior to 
deciding to invest, Miss K had been experiencing some difficulty with her employer and has 
since lost her job. I have no doubt that this was a stressful time for her. 
But I also have to bear in mind that Miss K transferred substantial sums of money to the 
scammers in a very short space of time. She sent this money to an unregulated business, 
without seeking any financial advice, and without having had any previously dealings with 
them despite seeing some negative reviews online. In my view, a reasonable consumer 
ought to have recognised that there was some risk in sending that much money to an 
unknown and unregulated company. While I sympathise with her position, for the reasons 
explained above, I still think she should bear some liability for her loss because she hasnt 
acted reasonably considering all the circumstances of this case. So, I think Revolut can 
deduct 25% from her redress award in recognition of this. 
I would add that I also intend to award 8% interest as, if Revolut had acted in line with its 
duty of care, Miss K would have had access to these sums and has been deprived of that 
money. 
I understand the experience has caused Miss K distress and inconvenience. While I am very 
sorry for the difficulties she has experienced, ultimately it was the scammer who was 
responsible for her suffering. And whilst I have concluded Revolut most likely could have 
prevented the payments, Ive also explained why I think a 25% reduction to the 
compensation due to contributory negligence is appropriate. Bearing all of this in mind, 
overall, Im satisfied the award I have set out here represents a fair outcome to this case, so 
I dont intend to make an additional award for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right 
Revolut should pay Miss B:
A refund of 75% of all payments made to Binance from 26 May 2021 until the 7 June 
2021. 
Interest on all payments calculated at 8% simple per year from the respective dates 
of loss to the date of settlement. 
If Revolut deducts tax from this interest, it should provide the Miss B with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate
Neither Revolut nor Miss K have made any additional submissions. In the absence of any 
new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out 
in my provisional decision. So, for the same reasons as my provisional decision (and as set 
out above). I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right 
Revolut must pay Miss B:
A refund of 75% of all payments made to Binance from 26 May 2021 until the 7 June 2021. 
Interest on all payments calculated at 8% simple per year from the respective dates 
of loss to the date of settlement. 
If Revolut deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Miss B with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Revolut Ltd should put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman