DRN-4116926
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader, trading as M. He complains that ClearBank Limited wont refund 
transactions he didnt make.
ClearBank partners with Tide to provide accounts for its customers. For ease, Ive generally 
referred to ClearBank throughout the decision as its ultimately responsible for the complaint.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is 
that Mr S isnt liable for payments he didnt authorise. 
To determine authorisation, Ive considered regulation 67 of the PSRs. This says that 
a payment is to be regarded as authorised if Mr S consented to the execution of it  
and that consent must have been given in the form, and in accordance with the 
procedure, agreed between ClearBank and Mr S.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions to establish the agreed form and procedure. 
These simply say that a Tide Cardholder can  authorise a transaction via Apple 
Pay. Practically speaking, that means that Mr S needed to have used his device, 
including the relevant security procedures, with the merchant to authorise the 
payment. 
Here, its accepted Mr S didnt do this. Instead, it was a fraudster who made the 
payments after they duped Mr S into sharing a code to finish setting up Apple Pay on 
their own device. 
ClearBank submit that because Mr S shared the code, he consented to the 
payments. But Im not persuaded that his indirect involvement in setting up the 
means to make a payment is the same as Mr S using the entire agreed form and 
procedure to execute a payment transaction. I think its akin to saying that activating 
a card is the same as consenting to all the payments using it, which clearly isnt the 
case. 
Nor do I think that Mr S could reasonably be described as having given someone 
permission to go through the form and procedure to make these payments, given that 
he was tricked into sharing the code under the belief he was ultimately keeping his 
account safe.  
It follows that Im not persuaded he went through the agreed form and procedure to 
consent to the payments or gave someone else permission to consent to the 
payments on his behalf. They were, therefore, unauthorised.
ClearBank can still hold Mr S liable if it can show he failed with gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account and keep his personalised security details safe. 
While ClearBank hasnt explicitly argued this, it seems some of their submissions 
allude to this. 
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded ClearBank has 
shown thats the case. Ill explain why.
Mr S received a call from someone pretending to be from Tide, who knew several 
pieces of his personal and account information. They told him someone was 
fraudulently using his card and that they needed him to share a code they sent him 
by text to cancel his card. 
Given his trust in the caller, the urgent situation they presented and how the 
message appeared when they told him to expect it, I can see how he focused on the 
code in the message and shared it. Im not persuaded it meant he fell so far below 
what a reasonable person wouldve done that he acted with gross negligence. 
ClearBank submit that Mr S was suspicious as he realised Tide usually message in 
the app before calling. But it seems his concerns materialised after the call, when he 
reflected on what happened and was no longer acting in the heat of the moment. 
Hence why he subsequently blocked his card and called ClearBank to report the call. 
So this doesnt change my mind. 
ClearBank has also highlighted the warnings it provides to its customers about 
sharing information. But I can understand how Mr S didnt remember these in the 
heat of the moment, when hed been cleverly tricking into trusting the caller was 
genuine. I dont think it meant he acted with very significant carelessness to conclude 
he failed with gross negligence. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think ClearBank has shown Mr S failed with gross 
negligence. So he isnt liable for the disputed payments and ClearBank needs to put 
things right  by refunding his losses from these unauthorised payments alongside 
interest to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket. 
Theres a further question here whether ClearBank are also liable for these 
unauthorised payments as they happened after he told them he received a fraudulent 
call. Its said it couldnt have known from Mr Ms call that his card details had been 
added to someone elses device and he didnt volunteer this information. But given 
this was a known scam, Id have expected it explore this regardless. But given that 
the complaint has already been upheld and this wouldnt entitle Mr S to further 
redress than what Ive awarded, Ive not explored this further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr S (trading as M)s complaint. ClearBank Limited 
must:Pay Mr S (trading as M) the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount 
recovered or already refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S (trading as 
M) to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman