DRN-1688692
The complaint
Mr M complains about how an engineer appointed by Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
dealt with a fault he reported on his washing machine. He says this subsequently caused 
water damage to his property.
What happened
Mr M purchased a washing machine in January 2016. This washing machine was covered 
by a two year manufacturers warranty. So, Mr M took out a maintenance and support plan 
with Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) to commence once the warranty expired in 
January 2018.
Mr Ms policy with D&G expired on 25 January 2019. Due to an error it wasnt renewed until 
29 August 2019 when Mr M contacted D&G in order to report a fault with his washing 
machine. He said he had noticed a loud knocking noise on the washing machine door. 
During this telephone call D&G set up a new policy on Mr Ms behalf and advised that it 
would appoint an engineer to visit his property and diagnose the fault.
On 2 September 2019 D&Gs appointed engineer attended Mr Ms home in order to inspect 
the washing machine. Mr M said the engineer tightened the main pulley bolt during this visit. 
But D&G refuted this and said its engineer didnt fit any parts or carry out any work to the 
door seal. It said the only work undertaken was an adjustment to refit a plug. And it stated 
the engineer tested the washing machine afterwards and found it to be in good working 
order. It further said there was no indication of any other issues affecting the machine. 
On 13 October 2019 Mr M contacted D&G again to report that his washing machine door 
seal had broken and caused flooding to his kitchen and lounge. An engineer attended his 
home on 15 October 2019 and deemed the washing machine to be irreparable due to a fault 
to the drum, which was ripping the seals and causing multiple breakdowns. So, the washing 
machine was written off and Mr M was offered a replacement product.
Mr M complained to D&G as he felt the fault that had caused flooding to his lounge and 
kitchen in October 2019 had occurred as a result of the engineers visit the previous month. 
He estimated the cost of the damage incurred to exceed £2000 and he told D&G it was liable 
for this cost. But D&G stated there was no evidence that the broken seal had occurred as a 
result of the repair the previous engineer had undertaken in September 2019. So, it disputed 
it was responsible for what happened. But it waived appliance installation and removal fees 
and paid him £100 compensation to recognise that hed had to contact it during August and 
October to report faults with his washing machine.
Being dissatisfied with how D&G proposed to resolve his complaint, Mr M referred it to our 
service. While our investigator empathised with Mr M they didnt recommend upholding his 
complaint. They werent persuaded that the repairs undertaken to Mr Ms washing machine 
in September 2019 had caused or contributed to the problems hed experienced in October 
2019. So, they didnt think D&G had acted unfairly in declining to cover the cost of the 
damage caused to Mr Ms home. But Mr M disagreed and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr M and D&G but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think D&G made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, in how it 
decided to resolve his complaint. And, having thought carefully about everything he and 
D&G have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr M will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Mr Ms policy with D&G covers maintenance and support to his washing machine. But loss 
or damage that occurs to Mr Ms property or his possessions is excluded under his policy 
unless its been caused by something thats D&Gs fault.
Therefore, the only way I can direct D&G to cover the cost of repairs to Mr Ms property is if 
theres evidence that shows the broken seal on his washing machine was caused by the 
repair that was carried out in September 2019. 
Mr M disputes the extent of repair work D&G says its engineer undertook in September 
2019. So, Ive carefully considered the inspection report that was completed by the engineer 
that attended his property during September 2019 to understand exactly what work was 
undertaken by D&Gs appointed engineer. 
The report from September 2019 shows that the fault Mr M reported had been caused by a 
fault with the heater plug, which was causing it to catch on the inner drum when the machine 
was spinning. The engineer therefore re-fitted the heater plug and tested the washing 
machine afterwards. Having done so, they found the appliance to be in good working order 
with no other issues that required attention during their visit.
The inspection report shows clearly that the only work that was undertaken was that the 
heater plug was refitted. Theres no evidence that any other work was carried out to the 
appliance or that any parts were fitted. Theres no reference to any work being undertaken to 
the appliance seal.
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that the engineers inspection report was completed 
by the engineer on 4 September 2019. I therefore think the engineer had a good recollection 
of the work theyd undertaken when their report was completed. And if theyd undertaken the 
work Mr M has told our investigator they had Id expect it to be endorsed on their report  
thered be no reason for any other work undertaken not to be itemised on the report.
Ive compared Septembers inspection report to the report that was completed by the 
engineer that attended in October 2019. This report states the door seal was ripped due to 
issues that were unrelated to the heater plug. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im persuaded that the repairs undertaken by engineers 
attending Mr Ms property in September and October 2019 are unrelated to one another. I think this is also supported by the fact that Mr Ms washing machine worked correctly for 
over a month before he reported a further fault on 13 October 2019, which was different in 
nature to the one reported in August 2019. 
I can see Mr M has questioned the thoroughness of the inspection undertaken by the 
engineer that attended his property in September 2019. Hes provided our service with an 
independent inspection report and photographs of the washing machine, which he feels 
demonstrates that the engineer should have identified and diagnosed the broken door seal 
during Septembers visit. Ive therefore thought about whether the engineer ought to have 
inspected the door seal when they attended during September 2019. 
D&G told our investigator that the engineer it appointed to attend Mr Ms property was a 
manufacturer authorised repairer. So, I think its reasonable to expect them to have sufficient 
expertise to identify and repair any faults to the appliance Mr M had.
I also think that, bearing in mind the engineer that attended Mr Ms home in September 
repaired the problem hed reported and left his washing machine in good working order, 
theres no evidence to suggest they missed an opportunity to inspect the door seal or identify 
any faults with the door seal that might have been present at that time. 
Ive considered whether any previous repairs carried out on Mr Ms washing machine may 
have caused the door seal to fail in October 2019. He told our investigator that the door seal 
was replaced in June 2019. But his policy with D&G was inactive from January to August 
2019 as it had lapsed. And, for this reason, I think its unlikely D&G would have undertaken 
any repairs to Mr Ms appliance during that period. I can see D&G has no repair history 
recorded between this period and I think this is reliable evidence.
The only evidence of a repair prior to the fault Mr M reported in August 2019 was when the 
door seal was replaced in April 2018. And I think its unlikely that the replacement door seal 
in April 2018 caused the problems Mr M experienced around 18 months later.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade 
me that the broken seal on the appliance that caused flooding in October 2019 was caused 
by the repair that was carried out in September 2019. I appreciate Mr M feels the report he 
provided our service demonstrates the work undertaken in September caused Octobers 
fault. But the report doesnt identify the cause of the door seal failure  so its of limited use.  
As, Im not persuaded that D&G is responsible for the water damage that the failed door seal 
caused to Mr Ms property, I cant say it acted unfairly in declining to cover the costs of 
repairing the floor coverings in his lounge and kitchen. I also think it acted reasonably in 
waiving appliance installation and removal fees, which is something it didnt have to do. 
I can see D&G paid Mr G £100 compensation to recognise that hed had to contact it during 
August and October to report faults with his washing machine. I think this was fair  its in 
line with awards made by this service in comparable circumstances. Im therefore not going 
to ask D&G to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Julie RobertsonOmbudsman