DRN-3483070
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about an incorrect address link on his credit file with Transunion 
International UK Limited.
What happened
Mr M noticed there was an incorrect address link on his credit file. So, he raised a complaint 
with Transunion in July 2021 as he wanted an explanation for how this error happened. Mr M 
also believes the incorrect address link may have impacted his creditworthiness and has 
asked for compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Transunion said in 2007, a company which seems to be a part of Transunion, carried out 
some internal analysis work on behalf of Transunion. In doing so, an incorrect address was 
linked to Mr M in error which remained on their database since then. Nonetheless, as Mr M 
indicated the address link was wrong, Transunion removed it from their database. 
Transunion say they searched Mr Ms credit file in October 2021, and this showed the 
address link had been removed.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ms concern. In summary he said, he was unable to 
determine exactly why the incorrect address was linked to Mr Ms credit file due to the time 
that had passed. And while our Investigator didnt think Mr Ms creditworthiness was 
impacted due to this error, he did think Mr M was caused inconvenience. Our Investigator 
also said Transunion took too long to resolve this issue for Mr M  it took around three 
months from the point Mr M raised a dispute to when the address link was removed from his 
credit file. So, our Investigator recommended Transunion pay Mr M £150 compensation.
Mr M agreed. But Transunion didnt. They said the address link had been created and held 
under legitimate interest and theres no evidence to suggest the address link had a 
detrimental effect on Mr M, nor his ability to obtain credit. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Transunion have said that due to the time thats passed since the analysis work in 
2007, they cant provide detail on how the analysis was carried out at the time  such as 
what was used to generate the address link or what information was held in the database at 
the time which may have led to this error. So, Ive been unable to determine exactly how the 
address was linked to Mr M. Or exactly how it was displayed on Mr Ms credit file as neither 
party have been able to provide me with evidence of this. Nonetheless, Transunion have 
agreed this was an error and removed the address link in October 2021. Mr M has also 
confirmed to us more recently that the address link had been removed. So, Ive gone on to 
consider whether Transunion have done enough to put things right once theyd been told an 
error had been made.
Transunion initially said a dispute was raised about the incorrect information in July 2021 
and that this was then corrected by October 2021. Transunion then said they checked their 
records and couldnt see a dispute had been raised in July 2021 as they previously 
suggested. And that the link was queried as part of a complaint that was raised in November 
2021. Transunion also said it wasnt until December 2022 that Mr M raised this issue as a 
direct complaint  even though this date hasnt happened yet, so I think Transunion meant to 
say December 2021. Mr M has provided us with a copy of an email he sent to Transunion on 
27 July 2021, after receiving a copy of his credit report and noticing the incorrect address 
link. In this email, he explains that there is incorrect information about an address link on his 
credit file and he also requested that Transunion correct this error. So, on balance, I think 
what Transunion told us initially is right  in that Mr M raised a dispute in July 2021 about the 
incorrect address link. With that in mind, I agree with our Investigator in that the three 
months it took Transunion to amend the correction wasnt fair or reasonable.
In relation to the impact to Mr M, Transunion have confirmed there were no accounts or 
adverse credit which was linked to Mr Ms credit file as a result of the incorrect address link. 
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest this was the case. So, I dont have any reason 
to disbelieve what Transunion have said. 
Mr M says he doesnt have any evidence that this error has impacted his creditworthiness. 
And Mr M hasnt provided us with any evidence to suggest he was declined for any credit or 
borrowing as a direct result of this error. However, I can appreciate this issue would have 
caused Mr M inconvenience and worry  especially when finding out that an address, which 
wasnt linked to Mr M, was on his credit file. 
Having thought about the length of time it took Transunion to amend the address link on Mr 
Ms credit file, alongside the distress and inconvenience this issue caused Mr M, I think 
Transunion should pay him £150 compensation.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Transunion International 
UK Limited to pay Mr M £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman