DRN-3746094
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that AWP P&C SA (AWP) provided a poor service under their Home 
Emergency insurance policy when they made a claim under that policy after a storm 
damaged their roof. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a Home Emergency insurance policy with AWP which started on 1 
December 2020. On 27 November 2021, Mr and Mrs A made a claim under the insurance at 
7.35am. 
I understand that tiles had come off Mr and Mrs As roof after a storm. And that this had led 
to internal water damage in their loft. 
AWPs system notes show that it sent instructions to its contractors on 27 November 2021.  
It asked the contractors to contact Mr and Mrs A: within 30 minutes to make an appointment 
and confirm this appointment time to us by emailing.
Later on the morning of 27 November 2021, Mr and Mrs A emailed AWP to complain about 
the time it was taking to send a contractor for their emergency. They said theyd been 
contacted at 8.45am. But that theyd later been told that the contractor would attend on 2 
December 2021. As this was five days after theyd reported their emergency, they didnt 
think it was acceptable.
Mr and Mrs A also told AWP that theyd had problems getting through to them. And also 
problems with being called back when they were told they would be. They said they were 
concerned that they had ridge tiles balancing precariously close to the edge of the roof. And 
that these could fall and injure someone. 
AWP responded to Mr and Mrs As complaint on 1 December 2021. It said that it had been 
inundated with roofing claims. And that its contractors were trying to get to everyone as 
quickly as possible, subject to the weather. It acknowledged why Mr and Mrs A were 
frustrated, but noted that a contractor was booked to visit them the following day. 
As a gesture of goodwill, AWP said that if Mr and Mrs A could arrange their own roofer to 
carry out any required repairs before the contractor was due to visit, it would be prepared to 
reimburse them for up to £300. It said this was an exception to the policy, which it was only 
offering due to the number of roofing claims. 
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy with AWPs response. They felt it had taken AWP four days to 
suggest they look for their own roofer. They said they didnt have time to do that. And that 
they would wait for the appointed contractors visit. 
On 13 December 2021, Mr and Mrs A complained again to AWP about the unsatisfactory 
service they felt theyd received. They said that the contractor whod visited their home on 2 
December 2021 had simply put the ridge tiles back into position. But said that due to the 
weather they couldnt fix them in position with cement. So Mr and Mrs A would have to 
arrange their own roofer to fix them properly. 
Mr and Mrs A chased AWP for a response to their complaint. AWP wrote to them on 30 
December 2021 to tell them its investigation into their concerns was progressing. But that it 
wasnt yet in a position to provide them with its full response.
AWP sent its final response to the complaint on 26 February 2022. It acknowledged that its 
response time and communication hadnt been at the level it shouldve been. And offered 
£125 compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs A didnt accept AWPs offer. And brought their complaint to this service. They 
said theyd been very concerned that their tiles would blow off the roof again. They wanted 
AWP to send its contractor to secure the ridge tiles correctly and make good. They also 
wanted additional compensation for the mental anguish and poor service theyd received. 
Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs A for any reports theyd got covering the poor repairs 
they said AWP had carried out. But Mr and Mrs A didnt have any such reports. They felt that 
AWP should properly complete the repair. And said that the tiles were still in position but 
werent cemented.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
AWPs offer of £125 compensation was fair under the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree. They made the following points:
- The policy hadnt met their expectations when theyd needed emergency assistance. 
The emergency hadnt been dealt with in a timely manner. And had caused them 
great inconvenience and concern. 
- The problem hadnt been fully resolved when AWPs contractor had visited their 
home. Mr and Mrs A were unhappy that theyd been told theyd have to arrange for 
further repairs at their own expense.
- They felt thered been repeated failures by AWP to give them a timely appointment, 
to answer the phone, and to call them back when it said it would. 
- They didnt think it was fair or reasonable for AWP to suggest that they arrange for 
their own contractor to carry out any required repairs four days after theyd made 
their claim. They couldnt at that point arrange anything sooner than AWPs 
contractors appointment. 
- They felt AWP had offered to cover repairs of up to £300 at one stage, so didnt 
agree that £125 was sufficient compensation. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that AWP took 
reasonable steps to put things right. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs A, so Ill explain 
the reasons for my decision.I first considered whether AWP attended the emergency within reasonable timescales.
Mr and Mrs A said that the emergency hadnt been dealt with in a timely manner. And had 
caused them great inconvenience and concern. 
I appreciate it took five days for AWP to send its contractor to the emergency. And that Mr 
and Mrs A were worried about the damage over this time. 
As our investigator said, if a consumer is unhappy with delays, this service considers 
whether these were avoidable or not. And if we determine that the delays were unavoidable, 
were unlikely to say that a business has done anything wrong.
Ive seen evidence that AWP asked its contractors to attend the emergency as soon as 
possible. But this was made difficult by the poor weather conditions. These meant that the 
contractors were exceptionally busy at the time of the claim. This was clearly an unavoidable 
issue for AWP. And the policy terms and condition state, under the general conditions 
section 2:
We will make reasonable attempts to find a suitable tradesperson, as long as the service is 
not affected by: poor weather conditions; 
I acknowledge that AWPs offer to allow Mr and Mrs A to appoint their own contractor came 
too late to be particularly useful for them. But Im satisfied that AWP did attend the 
emergency within reasonable timescales under the circumstances at the time.
I next considered Mr and Mrs As complaint about the limited repair work AWPs contractor 
carried out. They say that the repair was left incomplete. And they were unhappy that they 
were told theyd need to find their own contractor to secure the replaced tiles. 
Again, I looked to the policy terms and conditions, noting that the purpose of this insurance 
was to offer a temporary fix for unforeseen, sudden emergencies, not to complete a 
permanent and lasting repair. 
The General Exclusions Section 8 of the policy terms states that: Claims arising as a result 
of wear and tear arent covered. And AWPs contractors report clearly states that the roof 
was in a poor state of maintenance, noting that various non-emergency repairs were 
needed. The report also said that the damage was excluded due to wear and tear and that it 
exceeded the policy limit.
And Section 14 states that: Any permanent repairs that should more specifically relate to a 
home insurance claim arent covered. 
Additionally, the Roofing section of the policy terms states: Emergency repair may involve 
making a temporary repair such as fitting a tarpaulin to prevent water entering your home. 
Please note that you may have to arrange and pay for home maintenance work in order to 
complete a permanent repair. 
From what Ive seen, the policy terms are clearly worded and in line with what Id expect to 
see from policies like this one. And therefore Im satisfied that AWP acted fairly when it told 
Mr and Mrs A they were responsible for completing the permanent repair themselves. I say 
this because thats what the policy terms and conditions state.
I finally considered the poor service element of this complaint. AWP have acknowledged that 
elements of the service it provided had fallen below the expected level. It offered £125 
compensation for this.Mr and Mrs A felt thered been repeated failures by AWP to answer the phone and to call 
them back when it said it would. They also felt that AWP had at one stage offered them £300 
to cover repairs. So they didnt agree that £125 was sufficient compensation. 
I can see that it wouldve been frustrating when Mr and Mrs A couldnt quickly get through to 
AWP to chase their claim. And when AWP didnt call Mr and Mrs A back when it said it 
would. But I consider that the £125 compensation AWP offered for the poor service was 
reasonable under the circumstances. 
I also note that the up to £300 AWP offered in their 1 December 2021 response to Mr and 
Mrs A, was towards any emergency repairs any contractor they appointed directly carried 
out. But AWP carried out the emergency repairs itself, so Mr and Mrs A didnt need to ask for 
any repair costs up to £300 to be repaid. The £125 AWP offered was entirely separate from 
this potential refund. It was offered for the poor service Mr and Mrs A had received. And had 
nothing to do with the repairs.
Overall, Im satisfied that AWP took reasonable steps to put things right. Im sorry that Mr 
and Mrs A have had the stress of living with the temporary repair. But I dont require AWP to 
do anything more. And I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman