DRN-4527176
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy about the way West Bay Insurance Plc has handled a third party claim 
against her under her Motor Insurance policy. She made a number of other complaints about 
how West Bay and its approved repairer handled the claim for her car, which our investigator 
addressed in her first view on the complaint. But Miss H made it clear in response to this that 
her main complaint is the way West Bay handled the third party claim against her. 
What happened
Miss H was involved in an accident with a third party. She has said the third party intended 
to turn right and changed her mind and this meant she couldnt avoid her and made contact 
with the passenger side of the third partys car. 
Miss H made a claim under her policy. West Bay arranged for Miss Hs car to be repaired. 
There were some issues around this with alleged damaged to the courtesy car provided by 
West Bays approved repairer and some damage to the windscreen of Miss Hs car while it 
was with the repairer. 
West Bay investigated the third party claim and felt it could not defend it due to the 
circumstances of the accident. So, it settled it on the best possible terms. Miss H complained 
to West Bay about this and the issues around the repairs to her car.
West Bay addressed Miss Hs complaint. It was satisfied its decision to settle the third 
partys claim was correct. But it felt it could have explained the rationale for its decision 
better to Miss H; so it paid her £200 in compensation. It also agreed to include damage to 
Miss H windscreen in the claim for damage to her car. And, when it made its submission to 
us, it offered to cover the cost of some minor damage to the courtesy car its approved 
repairer had provided to Miss H, along with the cost of any coolant or windscreen wash 
Miss H had bought for it.  
Miss H wasnt happy with West Bays response and asked us to consider her complaint. One 
of our investigators did this. In her first view she said what West Bay had paid for poor 
communication and done and offered with regards to the issues with the repairs to her car 
and the problems with the courtesy car were fair. But she didnt comment on West Bays 
decision to settle the third partys claim. Miss H responded to point this out. So the 
investigator issued a second view in which she said she thought West Bays decision to 
settle the third partys claim was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss H does not agree with the investigators view with regards to West Bays decision to 
settle the third partys claim. She is adamant the accident wasnt her fault and thinks West 
Bay havent properly considered the evidence; in particular the location of the damage to the 
cars. Shes said the police told her she had the right of way. And she explained the third 
party came up the side of her car and she gave way and let her pull in front of her and she 
started to indicate. But then she smashed into the side of her car. Miss H has provided 
photographs of the damage to her car and the location of the incident, which she considers 
support her version of events and show she wasnt at fault. She feels West Bay should have 
appointed experts to consider the evidence, but she was told they didnt because of the 
witness statement. Miss H also thinks the investigator made an incorrect statement, as she 
said she went into the back of the third partys car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss H hasnt challenged what the investigator said with regards to the issues around the 
damage to her car and the issues with the courtesy car, I dont see any need for me to 
comment further on them; other than to say I agree with the investigator that what West Bay 
has paid and offered is fair. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint.
Having done so, although I realise Miss H will be very disappointed to hear it, Im satisfied 
that West Bay handled the third partys claim against her in line with the policy terms and 
reasonably. 
Miss Hs policy contains the following condition:
The insurer is entitled under this policy to:
Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name or in the name 
of any other person insured by your policy. 
This means West Bay is entitled to decide how it deals with a claim from a third party against 
Miss H. But I consider it good industry practice and an obligation under the abovementioned 
rules for an insurer to act reasonably when doing so. This means it needs to properly 
investigate the third partys claim and consider very carefully the evidence available, 
including the damage to the cars, the location of the incident, any witness statements and  
most importantly  the evidence of its policyholder. 
I realise Miss H doesnt agree, but I am satisfied that West Day did properly consider all the 
evidence before settling the third partys claim against her on the best possible terms. 
Irrespective of what it may have said, I am confident it appreciated the damage to Miss Hs 
car was such that she couldnt have gone into the rear of the third partys car. I say this 
because it had photographs of the damage and an estimate for the repairs to Miss Hs car 
and it is obvious from these that she hit the passenger side of the third partys car. However, 
the reality is that the witness did not see the third party coming up the side of Miss Hs car or 
indicating All they saw was Miss H drive into the side of the third partys car. West Bay got a 
special investigator to investigate whether there was a possibility the third party and the 
witness had colluded. And he is an expert in such matters. He investigated and said he was 
confident they had not colluded. This meant West Bay had to place some weight on what the 
witness and third party had said. 
West Bay also had to consider whether, in light of the evidence, it would have any chance of 
defending a claim from the third party in court. And, despite the fact I have no doubt Miss H 
would have made a very good witness and provided a strong testimony, I think its unlikely 
West Bay would have been able to successfully defend the third partys claim. I say this 
because normally the car behind is found to be liable for a collision, even if it doesnt contact 
the rear of the other car. This is because it is the responsibility of the driver behind to make sure the way is clear before proceeding. And, as far as I can see, Miss H came from behind 
the third partys car. In addition, the witness only saw Miss H hit the third partys car. So, if 
anything, this would count as evidence against Miss H. Bearing all this in mind, I consider 
West Bays decision to settle the third partys claim was a reasonable one. 
I do of course appreciate Miss H doesnt think she was at fault for the accident. But, even if 
that is the case, this doesnt mean that it would have been possible for West Bay to defend 
the third partys claim. And this is why I think its decision to settle it was a reasonable one.
In view of what Ive said, I do not consider it is appropriate to uphold Miss Hs complaint 
about West Bays decision to settle the third partys claim against her. And I agree with our 
investigator that the additional amounts West Bay has offered to pay Miss H for the damage 
to the courtesy car and coolant and screen wash represent a reasonable offer to resolve 
these aspects of her complaint. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that West Bay should cover the cost of 
the damage the approved repairer suggested Miss H had caused to the courtesy car it 
provided. It must also cover the cost of any coolant or screen wash Miss H bought for it, 
subject to her providing evidence of this. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Hs complaint about the issues with the courtesy car and require West Bay to 
do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
But I do not uphold Miss H complaint about West Bays decision to settle the third partys 
claim against her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman