DRN-1516656
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint for the following reasons.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application was marked to show they wanted to apply for PPI. The 
option to decline this was not marked. They completed a separate application form 
specifically for the PPI, which only covered Mr W. So, I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs W 
aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. Mr and 
Mrs W say they were told they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage. But I dont think it 
would be reasonable to uphold the complaint based solely on their recollection of something 
that happened so long ago. Especially in light of the other available evidence. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, and it seems to have been right for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Mr and Mrs W would still have bought it. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs W 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
I dont think the regulators rules on the non-disclosure of commission apply here because of 
the date the mortgage account ended. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ws comments. But these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman