DRN-4446178
The complaint
Mr M complains about a currency exchange fee he was charged on his account with Revolut 
Ltd.
What happened
On the 7th of December 2021 Mr M exchanged 60,000.00 EUR to £50,725.75. As part of the 
exchange, Mr M was charged a conversion fee of £249.88, which he says he wasnt aware 
of. So, Mr M raised a complaint with Revolut. 
Revolut looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Revolut did offer Mr M £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill, but it said the fees it charged were clear on the banking app and in the 
terms and conditions of the account. So, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Revolut had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator said that as Mr M had a standard Revolut account, and he exceeded the 
£1,000 fee free limit, Revolut charged a 0.5% fee on the transaction. This was in line with the 
account terms and our investigator was also satisfied this wouldve been displayed clearly in 
the app when the conversion was made. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
In order to uphold this complaint, Id need to find that Revolut had done something wrong or 
acted unfairly. But I havent done so here. 
The fee percentage Mr M was charged is displayed clearly in the terms and conditions of the 
account. These terms are available online and Mr M wouldve also had access to them when 
he opened his account. Mr M also doesnt appear to dispute that its in the terms of the 
account, but that instead he hadnt read them. This is something I cant hold Revolut 
responsible for. 
Revolut have also shown me evidence that the fee for the exchange wouldve been 
displayed in the app when he made the transaction. This is something that Mr M appears to 
confirm to a chat advisor at Revolut - that it wouldve been displayed but he didnt see it. So, 
again I cant hold Revolut responsible for something Mr M appears to not have noticed. I am 
satisfied its displayed clearly on the screen and wouldve been visible to Mr M when he 
made the transfer.  
Mr M has raised the issue of the fees being small on the screen, as he used his mobile 
phone to make the transfer. This is not something Ive seen Mr M raise with Revolut before 
making the transfer. So, Im satisfied they didnt miss any opportunity to direct Mr M to the 
information in other ways, or by making a reasonable adjustment. As the terms are available 
on Revoluts website, Mr M wouldve also been able access this from a computer or laptop.
Mr M has said that his issue is not that the terms werent displayed or available but that he 
didnt understand them. This is something that he couldve reached out to Revolut to expand 
on before he decided to proceed with the transaction. Ive not seen any information to show 
Mr M did this. 
In summary, I havent found Revolut have acted unfairly or made any errors in the 
circumstances of this complaint, or when charging Mr M a fee. Im satisfied all of the 
information Mr M needed before he made the transaction was available to him and I find it 
most likely the app also displayed the fee before Mr M confirmed he was happy to go ahead 
with the exchange. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
Mr M is free to accept Revoluts offer of £50 if he hasnt done so already.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman