DRN-3254166
The complaint
Mr N complains HSBC UK Bank PLC blocked a payment he was making for purchase of a 
vehicle.
What happened
Mr N says he wanted to pay a deposit of £500 in order to purchase a car. Mr N used the 
telephone banking service to make the payment. 
When Mr N told the operator what the payment was for he says the operator said he needed 
to check some details regarding the purchase. Mr N was then transferred to the customer 
care team, who asked Mr N some further questions regarding the payment. Mr N told the 
operator the payment was a deposit for a car and admitted he had not actually seen the car 
or met the seller of the car. Mr N says all contact with the seller was by private messaging 
service. Mr N says he was told the bank would not agree to the payment on the basis it had 
suspicions the payment was fraudulent.
Mr N says its his money and he wanted to make the payment. Mr N says if he lost the 
money then that would be his own fault. Mr N says the money was to buy a specially 
adapted car which would enable him to leave his house. HSBC maintained its position so Mr 
N made a complaint. 
HSBC said it didnt allow the payment for the deposit of the vehicle Mr H was trying to 
purchase since Mr H had not seen the vehicle himself and did not know the person who was 
selling it. HSBC said when it has concerns about new transactions it looks to protect its 
customers and the bank, and this transaction wasnt a risk it was prepared to make on Mr 
Ns behalf. 
Mr N wasnt happy with the response he received from HSBC and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought HSBC had acted 
fairly and in Mr Ns best interests when blocking the payment. He thought HSBCs 
explanation was fair. The investigator recognised the inconvenience Mr N had been caused 
but didnt think it was fair to hold HSBC at fault for this. So he didnt think it needed to do 
anything further. 
Mr N didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair for HSBC to block the payment since it was his 
money and he feels he should be able to decide what he spends it on. Since Mr N didnt 
agree the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that I am looking into Mr Ns complaint regarding the transaction to 
purchase the vehicle only. Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. 
Firstly I want to recognise the inconvenience Mr N feels he has suffered. Ive no doubt he 
wanted to purchase the car in order to be more mobile. And he isnt able to purchase just 
any car since he needs one that meets his specific needs. So I understand why he feels the 
way he does. 
I have listened to the calls regarding the purchase of the vehicle. The operator told Mr N that 
since the payment was to a new recipient it was checking the payment was genuine in order 
to protect its customers. Mr N was told the payment would not be allowed as the bank had 
suspicions the payment was fraudulent.  I can hear Mr N is frustrated he is not able to 
transfer his money as he wants to, and I can understand why. However I am satisfied the 
explanation provided and reasons for it are reasonable. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraud and scams. HSBC explained it had concerns about the car purchase 
since Mr N hadnt seen the car himself or met the person who was selling it. It also explained 
it didnt feel it was usual for a deposit to be required for a private car sale. On page 22 of the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ns account it lists the reasons HSBC may not be able to make a 
payment from the account, and it includes reasonably believing theres been fraud or 
criminal activity of any kind. HSBC has previously identified payment requests that it 
considered suspicious and was taking additional care to protect Mr N from potential fraud 
and scams. So I can see why this caused distress and inconvenience to Mr N  but it doesnt 
necessarily mean the bank has acted incorrectly. 
I am satisfied HSBC has shown the block it put on the £500 transaction was based on a 
genuine and legitimate reason for it to take the action it did. So although Mr N will have been 
frustrated by what happened here, Im satisfied it treated him fairly and Im not persuaded 
HSBC made any errors by refusing this transaction.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman