DRN-3042754
The complaint
Mr E complains about his bank Metro Bank Plc. He says it didnt do enough to recover the 
payments he made to an investment scam company. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat 
what happened in much detail here. 
Mr E was cold called by a representative of Safemarkets.com who tricked him into believing 
that he could make money on their investment trading platform and could withdraw this 
money at any time. Mr E made three payments (using his Metro Mastercard debit card) to 
Safemarkets.com totalling £4,070.30 between 28 November 2017 to 1 December 2017. 
When Mr E could no longer access his trading account and the representative of 
Safemarkets.com was no longer reachable, he realised hed fallen victim to a scam and 
contacted Metro for assistance with recovering his payments. 
Metro concluded it was unable to recover Mr Es payments through the relevant card 
scheme. One of our investigators initially thought that Metro could have attempted 
chargeback claims and this would have likely led to a successful outcome. Metro disagreed 
and asked for the complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for determination.
I wrote to Mr E with my provisional findings explaining that I didnt think Metro had a valid 
chargeback option to have assisted him with a claim against Safemarkets.com. Mr E replied 
and said he was misled/tricked by Safemarkets.com and was told he could withdraw his 
money at any time, so he did have access to his trading account to pay in but he wasnt 
aware that the platform was designed to pressure clients to pay more money in. He felt if 
Metro had processed chargeback claims in the beginning, he would have had a chance to 
recover this money. He said Safemarkets.com used the Mastercard logo displayed on their 
website to make them seem credible and this induced him into transacting with them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept in this case that Mr E has been the victim of a scam and Im very sorry to see that 
he lost his money this way. My role here is to consider whether or not I think Metro could 
have recovered Mr Es payments through its relevant chargeback scheme. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (i.e. Metro) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Our service has clarified this matter with Mastercard directly, it explained that if a cardholder 
authorised and engaged in a transaction with the intent to participate in gambling, 
investment or similar services, then cardholder-dispute chargeback rights are restricted 
regardless of whether the activity was illegal or brand damaging. It went onto explain that 
issuers have no chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, 
or withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of 
such chips or value. In short, Mastercard consider the purpose of the Mastercard transaction 
to load funds into the gambling or investment account and not what activities are 
subsequently done with the funds. 
The scheme does allow for a chargeback if it can be evidenced that the funds never credited 
the trading account. But this was not the nature of Mr Es claim. His claim was that hed 
fallen victim to a scam and was unable to withdraw his funds from his trading account. This 
isnt something the Mastercard scheme provides a dispute resolution process for. 
I appreciate that Mr E feels strongly that Metro could have at least attempted chargeback 
claims for him. But I dont think I can tell it that it ought to have. This is because it didnt have 
the grounds to do so. 
Overall, based on all the above information, I think declining to raise chargeback claims was 
a fair and reasonable exercise of Metros discretion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that despite my natural sympathies for Mr Es financial loss, I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman