DRN-2203153
The complaint
Mr G says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
This complaint is about a number of home-collected loans Morses Club provided to Mr G 
between December 2015 and June 2016. The information Ive been provided with about the 
lending is in the table below:
Loan Date advanced Amount Term / repayment
1 02/12/15 £200 20 weeks £15
2 16/03/16 £200 20 weeks £15
3* 23/06/16 £200 20 weeks £15
4** 23/06/16 £200 20 weeks £15
5** 23/06/16 £200 20 weeks £15
*Loan 3 was granted, drawn and repaid on the same day. It seems to be a duplicate of loan number 5. So, I have 
discounted loan 3 as it didnt really exist. **Loans 4 and 5 were taken on the same day. The terms are different 
but again, this seems to be a single loan. Essentially there were 3 lending events, in December 2015, March 
2016 and June 2016.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr G asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Gs complaint.
Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
G could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Morses Club should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Morses Club was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Morses Club told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to 
lend to Mr G. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending 
history to him with a view to seeing if there was a point at which it should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
As Ive said, this is essentially about 3 lending events with each loan being taken out upon 
the previous one being repaid. And in each of these Ive noted what Mr G told Morses Club 
about his income. He said he earned between £1,040 and £1,387 per month after tax and he 
also set out what his outgoings amounted to. Based on the information Mr G himself 
provided I think all 3 loans were within his ability to repay. In coming to that conclusion Ive 
also thought about the amount he was asking to borrow and what the repayments were per 
week / month.
Another consideration Ive borne in mind is what Ive said above about the length of the 
lending relationship; I think the checks which Morses Club most likely carried out appear to 
have been relatively basic ones and they would have exposed some, but by no means all, of 
Mr Gs overall financial profile. Nevertheless, I think these types of check were proportionate 
for the particular loans in question.
In summary therefore, I accept that its possible that Mr G was experiencing wider financial 
hardship at the time of taking out these loans. However, his borrowing with this particular 
business was at the earlier stages of the relationship. I think the moderate amounts being 
borrowed  and what the business would have reasonably assumed Mr Gs situation to be  
would have made all the loans look sustainable. Im therefore not upholding Mr Gs 
complaint. Im very sorry to disappoint him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. Morses Club PLC doesnt need to 
pay anything back to him. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman