DRN-3544297
The complaint
Mr J complains that Norrix Financial Services Limited gave him an unsuitable 
recommendation to transfer the deferred benefits in his occupational pension scheme (OPS) 
to a personal pension plan (PPP). He says this caused his pension benefits to be lower than 
theyd have been under his OPS.
What happened
In 2007 Mr J had deferred benefits in an OPS. Hed been made redundant from his employer 
in December 2006. And in 2007 had been contacted by his former employers OPS with two 
offers to transfer his deferred benefits.
He had the option of accepting a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) around £42,000, in 
addition to a lump sum cash incentive, that amounted to around £32,000 after tax. Or a 
second option of transferring an enhanced CETV around £91,000.
Mr J sought advice from an independent financial adviser (IFA), who referred him to Norrix 
who had the authority to provide specialist pension transfer advice.
Following the advice process, Mr J opted to take the taxed lump sum and transfer the 
smaller CETV to a personal pension plan. The transfer completed in September 2007. 
Mr J complained to Norrix, in February 2020, that he thought hed been given unsuitable 
advice to transfer his OPS. 
Norrix didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It set out its understanding of Mr Js options at the 
time. It said that a transfer analysis report had been obtained that indicated Mr J would be 
better off by transferring into a personal pension. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Norrixs answer so brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
wasnt able to resolve this case informally. So this case was referred for an ombudsman 
decision.
I considered all of the circumstances, and issued a provisional decision to Mr J and Norrix 
explaining why I thought that Mr Js complaint should be upheld.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
The evidence showed that Norrix failed to provide Mr J with a clear written 
recommendation explaining its advice.
Transfer analysis for the full CETV failed to demonstrate that Mr J was likely to 
receive better retirement benefits by transferring out of his OPS.
That the transfer analysis for Mr Js recommended transfer most likely left him facing 
lower benefits in retirement.
Norrix failed to demonstrate that it was in Mr Js best interests to sacrifice future 
pension to pay off an element of his mortgage. It failed to fully understand his 
circumstances and the impact of his having found new employment prior to providing 
its recommendation.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr J made no further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Norrix responded to explain that it disagreed in the following areas:
It disagreed that Mr J didnt have a need for a cash lump sum at the time. It explained 
that it had considered the £20,000 redundancy payment as part of his overall assets. 
And stated that its advice had helped a client threatened with eviction precisely 
because he could not continue to pay his mortgage.
It said that the referring IFA had spoken to Mr J face-to-face, about the differences in 
the types of pension and Mr Js investment options. And argued that this was better 
than Mr J being provided with a letter that may have been difficult to understand.
That the full CETV was the fairest way to assess the financial suitability of this 
transfer.
Norrix also provided a written testimony from the IFA that referred Mr J. He explained, from 
his recollection of events, that Mr J was concerned regarding his redundancy and the impact 
it was going to have on the affordability of his mortgage. And recalls Mr J being keen to use 
his lump sum to pay off his mortgage and reduce his outgoings.
Norrix also disagreed with my provisional decision to put things right using the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both sides for responding. Ive considered all of the evidence and responses 
very carefully. I understand that Norrix disagreed with the conclusions Id reached in my 
provisional decision. But, as Ill explain, neither Norrixs additional arguments nor the 
testimony that its shared from the referring IFA have changed my mind. Im upholding Mr Js 
complaint for similar reasons that I explained in my provisional decision.
This case relates to the transfer of an OPS that had defined benefits which didnt expose 
Mr J to any investment risk. The transfer meant giving up the guaranteed benefits of the 
OPS and then assuming investment risk in a PPP. This is an area of financial planning that 
is specifically regulated. 
In this case, Mr J had contacted an IFA who had considered his circumstances. But wasnt 
authorised to be able to provide the specialist advice regarding this type of pension transfer. 
So the responsibility of advising on his pension transfer was passed to Norrix. 
Norrix appear to have placed a great degree of trust in the face-to-face advice that the 
referring IFA provided. But Ive been provided no meeting notes or written recommendations 
from those meetings. And Mr J doesnt now recall being told what he would be giving up by transferring. So, on balance Im unable to infer that the ceding IFA fully explained to Mr J the 
pros and cons of the transfer. Testimony from the referring adviser makes it clear that it was 
unable to provide a recommendation on this pension transfer anyway. Ultimately, the 
responsibility for providing a suitable recommendation to Mr J rested with Norrix.
The regulator at the time  the FSA  had conduct of business (COB) rules, set out in its 
handbook. At the time of the advice COB 5.3 gave the rules and guidance regarding 
suitability of personal recommendations. Under COB 5.3.29G guidance was provided 
regarding recommendations for Pension Transfers. It included guidance for firms advising 
customers on the suitability of transferring deferred benefits from a scheme like Mr Js OPS.
It explained that Norrix should have started by assuming that the transfer wasnt suitable, 
and only then consider it to be suitable if it could clearly demonstrate on the evidence 
available at the time that it was in Mr Js best interests. The guidance stipulated the sort of 
information Norrix should obtain in order to make this recommendation. It also placed an 
obligation on Norrix, when recommending a transfer, to send a suitability letter which 
included a clear explanation why transferring or opting out is more suitable than remaining 
in the occupational pension scheme. 
I would expect to see certain things when considering a case like this. One of these being 
the written recommendation that Norrix gave to Mr J. Id expect this to be in the form of a 
recommendation letter or suitability report. It should explain to Mr J what was being 
recommended and why it was suitable for him. In the absence of such a document I need to 
determine, on a balance of probabilities, what Norrix recommended and why.
Norrix have provided a copy of a letter of 3 October 2007. This was sent to Mr J after the 
pension transfer completed. It explained to Mr J the background of the offer made by his 
ceding OPS. It explained the difference between his OPS and the PPP. And it explained to 
Mr J, Following discussions, we felt that you would benefit by taking advantage of the 
[ceding scheme] offer and transferring to a personal pension with [pension provider]. I am 
preparing a special report for you which gives the details of the transfer process and 
illustrates the benefits you have received from this change. Im satisfied from this letter that 
Norrix were responsible for the recommendation that led to his transferring his deferred OPS 
benefits.
I also consider that the content of the October letter makes it more likely than not that Mr J 
was never provided with a written suitability letter before the transfer took place. Which 
means that its unlikely he was ever made aware of the benefits he was giving up and the 
likelihood of his being able to match or improve on those benefits by transferring before his 
pension had been transferred. 
After Mr J had complained to Norrix he asked them to provide him with a copy of the 
suitability report. Norrix responded by providing Mr J with a copy of a transfer analysis 
document and an accompanying email offering commentary on the transfer analysis. Which 
gives me further cause to believe that Mr J was never provided with a clear 
recommendation.
In response to my provisional decision, Norrix commented that the face to face advice 
provided by the referring IFA would have been clearer to Mr J. But I have no evidence of 
what that verbal advice would have contained. I agree that explaining a recommendation 
face to face is valuable. But in addition to a written recommendation. Not instead of one. And 
in this case it was Norrix that was qualified to make and provide this recommendation. Not 
the referring IFA. Without a clear written recommendation and supporting rationale, I cant 
say that the referring IFA explained to Mr J, what Norrix now says were the reasons that 
made transferring suitable.In the absence of a clear recommendation with accompanying explanation why it was 
suitable, Mr J was unable to make an informed decision about his pension. Which I dont 
think was fair to Mr J. And didnt comply with the COBS guidance Ive referred to. It also 
means that I cant say that Norrix did enough to determine, at the time, that the transfer was 
in Mr Js best interests. I have to decide whether this failing made a difference. Which means 
considering whether the transfer could have been considered suitable to his circumstances 
anyway.
Norrix have provided us with two copies of transfer analysis (TVAS) reports that were 
provided by its recommended personal pension provider. These are dated 17 May 2007 and 
I accept that they were produced for Norrix to be able to consider Mr Js transfer. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr J was provided with either of these documents. Both reports 
say This report is directed at financial advisers and should not be distributed to or relied 
upon by private customers.  So I think that its more likely than not that Mr J wasnt provided 
with either of these until he contacted Norrix much later to ask for a copy of his suitability 
report.
The copy that Norrix referred Mr J to, in place of a suitability report, compared his OPS 
benefits with those potentially achievable following a transfer of the higher CETV of £91,000. 
Ill refer to this as TVAS1. The second report compared his OPS benefits with those 
potentially available following a transfer of the lower CETV of £42,000. Ill refer to this as 
TVAS2.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
TVAS1 indicated that the investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational 
pension at retirement was 6.6% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 6.5% per 
year to retirement age of 65 in this case. Whilst it is very close to being an achievable growth 
rate, the critical yield is slightly higher than the discount rate. And this is the return needed 
just to match the benefits being sacrificed. I would expect to see a realistic likelihood of 
being able to perform above the critical yield in order to improve on the benefits and make a 
transfer financially worthwhile. At best, TVAS1 highlights that a transfer of the higher CETV 
was borderline in terms of being able to match the OPSs benefits.
In assessing realistic returns for Mr J after this transfer, I would expect to see that Norrix had 
considered Mr Js attitude to investment risk. Norrix have been asked for evidence of its 
understanding of his attitude to risk and how it was assessed. The evidence it provided 
doesnt make it clear what Norrix considered Mr Js attitude to risk to be. It appears to have 
left this to Mr Js original adviser. 
Norrix has explained that the referring IFA advised on the investments. But I would still have 
expected Norrix to have considered them to determine the likelihood that Mr J could improve 
his benefits following a transfer. Had Mr J had a low or cautious attitude to risk for example, 
then it would have been even less likely that he could realistically have achieved the 
investment returns needed to justify this transfer.
In this case though, Norrix didnt recommend that Mr J transfer in order to improve his 
benefits in retirement. It hasnt said that it considered that would have been the case. And given the critical yield, and the discount rate, I dont think that there was a good enough 
chance that transferring from his OPS would improve Mr Js benefits in retirement.  
Ive given attention to TVAS1 initially as it is the analysis that Norrix used to justify its 
recommendation to Mr J in response to his complaint. Norrix have argued that it was the 
fairer comparison to use. And Im not convinced that it can be fairly interpreted as indicating 
that a transfer of the higher CETV was financially viable. But Mr J didnt transfer the higher 
CETV. He took the option of an immediate cash incentive and the lower CETV. So I still 
dont think that Norrixs reliance on TVAS1 to justify its recommendation is reasonable. It 
ought to have considered the overall financial implications of its recommendation. Which 
was based on the transfer outlined in TVAS2, and Mr Js use of the enhanced cash 
payment.
The transfer that Mr J made, and was most likely recommended by Norrix, was highlighted in 
TVAS2. Unsurprisingly given the reduced transfer value, it showed a much higher critical 
yield figure of 10%. Which was significantly above the discount rate I referred to above. And 
higher than the higher industry projection, at the time, of 9%. Which meant that it was highly 
likely that the recommended transfer from his OPS was going to leave Mr J with a much 
lower pension in retirement. 
The main purpose of a pension, and therefore pension planning, is to provide access to 
income in retirement. On face value, the transfer that Mr J made would leave him with lower 
benefits in retirement, so wasnt obviously suitable. 
Norrix have rightly pointed out that the option Mr J took gave him access to an immediate 
cash lump sum. Norrix should have assessed the value of that so that Mr J was able to 
understand the impact on his future benefits. But Ive seen no indication that Norrix 
considered that in any detail, nor that Mr J was given any such explanation.
Norrix have been asked for a record of its fact-find with Mr J. It provided brief handwritten 
notes from the referring IFA. Theyre undated, but the information on it appears to relate to 
the circumstances at the time so I accept that its likely that it was from the time of advice. I 
dont think that it provides any depth of understanding for Mr Js circumstances.
It indicates that Mr J had an outstanding mortgage around £57,000, with monthly 
repayments of £530. But provided no comment on income or expenditure. Mr J had been 
made redundant in December 2006 from the ceding OPSs employer. Which Norrix knew. 
But Mr J explained to our investigator that he wasnt out of work for very long. He had a new 
job by January 2007, as well as the redundancy settlement hed received.
Norrix ought to have known this. COB 5.2.5R, at the time of the advice, placed the following 
obligation on Norrix:
Before a firm gives a personal recommendation concerning a designated investment 
to a private customer, or acts as an investment manager for a private customer, it 
must take reasonable steps to ensure that it is in possession of sufficient personal 
and financial information about that customer relevant to the services that the firm 
has agreed to provide. 
I think that it was of great importance to understand what income Mr J had. In addition to his 
other assets that had been identified, it had a direct bearing on whether or not Mr J needed 
the cash incentive.
It appears that Mr J used the cash incentive that he obtained from transferring his pension, 
along with redundancy money and other savings to pay off his mortgage. Hes explained that this was something that he did because he could. The money was potentially available. And 
Ive no doubt that it was an attractive proposition at the time. But just because it may have 
sounded like an attractive idea to Mr J, that wasnt a reason to recommend it. The purpose 
of seeking professional advice was to get expert opinion on whether it was suitable for him. 
Hed found new employment very quickly after his redundancy. Which Norrix ought to have 
established. And he had £20,000 from his redundancy settlement, which Norrix knew. Im 
not convinced that, on balance, Mr J had a pressing enough need for the up front cash lump 
sum to warrant giving up his valuable deferred OPS benefits.
Norrix have said that its advice helped a client that faced being unable to repay his 
mortgage. But I dont agree that the evidence points to that. Based on the evidence Ive 
referred to, I consider that its more likely than not that Mr J was able to meet his 
expenditure. I accept that the idea of repaying his mortgage early was attractive, in the same 
way that it would be to most people with a mortgage. But whether it was suitable or not 
would have depended on an understanding of what he was actually giving up in the long run 
for that luxury. Norrix didnt provide Mr J with that advice. So, In the absence of a genuine 
and immediate need for the cash lump sum, I cant see that transferring the deferred benefits 
in his OPS was a suitable recommendation.
For the reasons Ive given, Norrix failed in its regulatory responsibility to provide Mr J with a 
well-considered and suitable recommendation. If it had, it should have advised Mr J that it 
would have been more suitable to keep his deferred benefits. Mr J sought advice that was 
independent from the advice on offer by his OPS. I dont think this indicates someone who 
wanted to transfer regardless of advice. And I dont think he had an immediate need for the 
incentive payment that would have overridden clear and well explained financial advice not 
to transfer. So I think that its more likely than not, that hed have followed that advice, and 
stayed in his OPS.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Norrix to put Mr J, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
In my provisional decision I proposed putting things right in line with the FCA guidance for 
such cases. Norrix has instead asked me to consider a deferred annuity to Mr Js OPS 
retirement age. It highlights the uncertainties in future inflation, fund growth and annuity rates 
that make such a calculation complex. These issues are fair, but have been considered by 
the regulator in its guidance. In a case such as this, Im unable to return Mr J to his OPS, so 
any redress is intended to put Mr J, as far as is now possible, into the position hed have 
been. Im satisfied that the issues that Norrix raise are accounted for in the regulatory 
guidance on redress for such cases.
Norrix must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. I recognise Norrixs concern at the 
way I proposed to address the cash incentive in my provisional decision, so think that the 
mechanism that already exists within FG 17/9 to deal with this is fair and addresses that. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the 
decision.
Norrix may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr J s pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date 
Norrix receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Norrix 
to pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Norrix to pay Mr J the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Norrix to 
pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Norrix to pay 
Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Norrix pays Mr J the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Norrix. My recommendation is not binding on Norrix. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Js complaint.
I direct Norrix Financial Services Limited to compensate Mr J in the manner that I set out in 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman