DRN-2739036
The complaint
Mr F complains that Cofunds Limited unreasonably delayed paying cash from his self-
invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr F requested a cash payment from his SIPP. He started the process at the end of May 
2020, but didnt receive the money from Cofunds until 25 June.
Mr F considered the time taken to complete the process was too long, and said Cofunds 
should compensate him for the excess time he didnt have the money. Mr F said a different 
provider had processed a similar transaction more quickly.
Cofunds said it wasnt responsible for the delay and didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found that part of Mr 
Fs pension fund had to be sold to produce the cash, and this had taken time. Once the cash 
was available Cofunds processed the SIPP providers request for it within four days. The 
investigator didnt consider this was unreasonable, and wasnt persuaded Cofunds had 
contributed to any delay in Mr F receiving the cash.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said another provider had 
completed a similar transaction within six days, so he maintained Cofunds processing time 
was unreasonably long. Mr F asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for much the 
same reasons.
I appreciate Mr F considers all providers should be able to process transactions within 
similar timescales. And as one of his providers is able to complete the process more quickly 
than Cofunds, I can understand his frustration that it took longer to receive the money from 
Cofunds.
But its beyond the remit of this service to tell Cofunds which systems to use and how it 
should operate. Instead, we look at how it dealt with Mr Fs request and whether it 
contributed to any unreasonable delays.
As the investigator explained, accessing the cash meant part of Mr Fs pension fund had to 
be sold. The process involved other parties, including Mr Fs financial adviser and the SIPP 
provider. Mr Fs adviser told him from the outset that the process for accessing the cash 
would take three to four weeks. I dont consider that timescale to be excessive given there 
were a number of stages to complete before the cash would be available. And it seems the 
transaction was completed within the quoted timescale.
Mr F started the process through his adviser on 1 June and I can see it took a few days for 
details to be confirmed so that the sale trades could proceed. I understand Mr Fs adviser 
was responsible for placing the trades, and that they were settled by 12 June. 
I dont consider the time between Mr F giving instructions and completion of the sales was 
excessive, but in any event Im not persuaded that Cofunds was involved in that part of the 
process.  
Once the proceeds of the sales were available, Mr Fs adviser requested the cash from the 
SIPP provider on 15 June, and the provider requested it from Cofunds on 19 June. Cofunds 
sent the money on 23 June and Mr F received it two days later.
Again, I dont consider the time it took Cofunds to send the money was unreasonable or 
excessive. I realised Mr F considers the business should be able to transfer the money at 
the same speed as a bank. But as Ive already said, its not for this service to tell Cofunds 
how to make cash transfers.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Cofunds contributed to any unnecessary delay 
in making a payment from the SIPP to Mr F. So I wont be asking it to pay him 
compensation.    
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman