DRN-3448133
The complaint
Mr C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited changed the way it applied the no claims 
discount (NCD) to his private medical insurance premiums.
What happened
From 2003 Mr C had private medical insurance, insured by AXA, which was provided by his 
employer. Mr C says he had to transfer from his employers group policy to an individual 
policy with AXA as he was diagnosed with cancer and AXA told his employer this would 
reduce the employers costs. He took out the individual policy in 2014 which his employer 
has paid for.
Mr C says:
He was concerned about his ongoing cancer treatment and future cost of premiums 
when he took out the individual policy but AXA had told him as there would be a 
continuation of cover for his treatment there would be no long term effect on his 
premiums if he only claimed for cancer treatment.
When his premium first started to increase he contacted AXA and it told him about its 
180 day rule. He understood that was a mechanism to keep his premium down 
through his NCD. 
Hed only claimed for his cancer treatment so his claim would be a continuous claim 
and wouldnt affect his NCD. Hed paid privately for treatment that AXA decided 
wasnt part of his original claim.
He was shocked that at the 2021 policy renewal his quoted premium was increased 
to £434.01 a month from £309 a month in 2020. Before then his premium hadnt 
increased greatly and had decreased between 2019 and 2020. 
When he complained to AXA it told him the 180 day rule no longer applied so the 
premium had been increased due to the lowering of the NCD. 
After he complained AXA said it wouldnt apply the NCD changes for the 2021 policy 
renewal so his premium reduced to £299.31 a month. But AXA said the NCD 
changes would apply at his next policy renewal if any further claims were made 
within the next policy year. He said his treatment for cancer meant he had to continue 
to see his consultant so he would be making claims.
He believes strongly that AXA acted contrary to the original agreement about the 
180 day rule and contrary to saying his premium wouldnt increase significantly if he 
just claimed for his cancer treatment.
AXAs actions have been extremely stressful for him. He didnt want to have to 
change his medical team as he had a lot of faith in them. His employer told him it 
wouldnt pay for the policy if the premium increased significantly.
He wants AXA to provide him with a 30% NCD permanently or reinstate the 180 day 
rule.
AXA said:
Mr Cs individual policy was sold as a continuation of cover from his employers 
group membership policy. Continuation of cover meant it continued to pay Mr Cs 
claims for conditions he had on his previous policy, including the cancer. 
Continuation of cover didnt mean his premiums wouldnt be affected by claims.
It doesnt have call recordings from the time Mr C took out his individual policy so it 
couldnt give evidence as to what it told Mr C at the time. 
Each policy is a yearly contract offered for 12 months, so the policy terms and/or 
premium could change when a policy renewal is offered.
The 180 day rule meant it would treat separate accounts for the same medical 
condition as one claim, if they were paid within180 days of each other.
At the 2018/19 policy renewal it sent Mr C a renewal pack including an Important 
Changes leaflet which said AXA had changed the way NCD was calculated. From 
that year onwards there was no reference to the 180 day rule in the policy documents 
so Mr C shouldnt have expected the 180 day rule to apply from that date.
But its system which calculates premiums mistakenly continued to apply the 180 day 
rule to Mr Cs policy until his policy renewal in 2021, which is when the NCD went 
down. Mr C had continued to benefit from the 180 day rule for three years after the 
rule had been removed from the policy terms.
Its goodwill gesture to not decrease the NCD in 2021 was fair. 
It had told Mr C that the correct terms of cover would apply from the 2022 renewal so 
any claims on the policy, even if they formed part of Mr Cs ongoing cancer 
treatment, would result in the NCD going down, as set out in the policy terms. It had 
spoken to Mr C about other policy options to reduce the monthly premiums.
Our investigator said AXA had acted fairly.
Mr C disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He added further details to the points 
hed made. He emphasised that his individual policy certificates state a joining date of 1 May 
2003 and he understood he would be treated as an existing policyholder with there being no 
long term penalty for having treatment for an existing condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably to Mr C, and I think it did. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr C, I understand AXAs decision to change how it applies the NCD may put 
him in a difficult position. Ill explain why Ive reached my decision.
Mr Cs individual policy was sold as continuation of cover from his employers group 
membership policy, which is why the date of joining on his policy certificates is 1 May 2003. 
Continuation of cover meant AXA continued to cover Mr Cs existing medical conditions. 
Continuation of cover didnt mean the premiums would continue to be the same/similar at 
each policy renewal.
Under the policy terms each individual policy Mr Cs had has been a separate contract of 
insurance with AXA that lasts one year. At the end of the policy its for AXA to decide 
whether it wishes to offer Mr C a new policy and on what terms. The policy terms and 
premium dont need to stay the same as the previous policy year. The policy terms are clear 
that AXA can change the terms of the policy and the premium when providing a policy
renewal quote. Mr C has the option to either accept the terms and premium or refuse the 
new policy.Mr C says he had an agreement with AXA when he took out the individual policy that he 
believes it hasnt kept to. As theres no recording of the phone calls I dont know what was 
discussed when the individual policy was taken out. But I think its very unlikely that AXA 
would agree to insure Mr C on exactly the same policy terms and premium indefinitely as the 
terms and premium for each poilcy are only valid for the 12 months policy period.
Mr Cs referred to conversations with AXA where he says AXA told him if his treatment was 
under the same claim number it wouldnt affect his premium. I think that was very likely to be 
discussions about the 180 day rule, which the 2018 renewal policy document described as:
If we pay any money, no matter how little, we count this as a claim when working out 
your discount.
We will treat separate accounts for the same medical condition as one single claim, if 
they are paid within 180 days of each other.
But since the 2018/2019 policy renewal the 180 day rule was removed from the policy terms. 
The Important changes to your cover leaflet sent to Mr C at that renewal says how the 
change to the NCD would work. So I think AXA gave Mr C enough notice about the change. 
It was the change in how the NCD worked that led to the decrease in NCD which led to the 
increase in the policy premium. And the error in AXAs system meant Mr C benefited from 
the 180 day rule until the 2021 policy renewal even though the rule had been removed from 
the policy terms three years earlier.
Ive considered all Mr C says about how important it is for him to see the same medical team 
and have the benefits of private health insurance given his medical condition. But for the 
reasons Ive given above I think AXA could fairly change the policy terms to remove the 
180 day rule. It acted fairly in its goodwill gesture of not decreasing the NCD for the 2021 
policy renewal, when it could have done so under the policy terms.
I also think AXA has given Mr C enough notice about the change in how it will calculate NCD 
for it to be able to implement those changes for the 2022 renewal. Theres no basis on which 
I can say AXA must reinstate the 180 day rule - thats a commercial decision for it to make. 
Theres no basis for me to say AXA must permanently provide a 30% NCD for Mr Cs future 
policy premiums.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman