DRN-2062745
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c. has declined her income protection policy claim, 
through a group scheme with her employer.
What happened
Mrs M was involved in a serious accident in 2017. She was off work for several months and 
was able to return in January 2018. At this time shes reported that her job role was changed 
as well as the demands on her to come into her office. She raised concerns about this 
through her employer, but the issue wasnt resolved in the way Mrs M asked for.
In October 2018, she went off sick following the conclusion of her formal complaint to her 
employer in relation to the change in job role. Her employer recorded her as off sick with 
stress at this time. In December 2018 Mrs M completed claims paperwork for her group 
scheme income protection policy, provided through her employer. The policy had a 26-week 
deferral time, meaning Mrs M would first be eligible to claim from April 2019.
MetLife assessed Mrs Ms claim in mid-2019. It considered medical evidence Mrs M had 
provided about the health conditions she suffered, as well as a report it had requested from 
an occupational health professional. On the basis of this, it declined Mrs Ms claim saying 
that it considered she was off work due to the workplace issues, rather than an illness or 
injury, so she didnt meet the policy terms. Mrs M appealed twice and provided further 
evidence, but her claim wasnt accepted.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think that MetLife was 
wrong to decline the claim. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show that Mrs Ms 
illnesses would cause her to be unable to perform the duties of her role elsewhere. He 
considered the workplace issues were a big part of her absence. And he said it seemed 
possible that at least some of the issues she was facing were connected to her employer, 
rather than the job she did  meaning she didnt meet the policy term of incapacitated. So 
while he was satisfied Mrs M couldnt return to her job, he wasnt persuaded she couldnt do 
the duties of her job elsewhere.
Mrs M disagreed and provided further evidence to support her claim. Our investigator 
reviewed this and also provided it to MetLife for its comments. However ultimately his 
outcome didnt change. Mrs M still maintained her claim should be covered, so the case has 
now been passed to me for a final decision. While the case was waiting for a decision Mrs M 
informed us that her employment had ended, so she was looking for the policy to cover her 
from October 2018, when she was first off sick, to June 2020, when her employment ended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to express how sorry I am to hear about Mrs Ms illnesses and the very difficult 
situation shes gone through. I dont doubt that whats been going on, combined with her 
health conditions mean shes experienced a very challenging time. But my role is to 
determine whether MetLife has done something wrong in declining this claim, given the 
specific terms and conditions of the policy. So I think its important to set out the remit of our 
organisation in relation to Mrs Ms claim.
The schedule for Mrs Ms group policy sets out that it has a Deferred period of 26 weeks. 
And Deferred period is defined by the policy in the following way:
Deferred period means the length of time an insured member must be 
continuously incapacitated before any policy benefit will be paid and as specified in 
the policy schedule.
Its understood that at times medical conditions can change. So, for example, someone may 
not meet the policy terms when they are first off work and so have a claim declined. But 
unfortunately their condition could then deteriorate later, to the point they do meet the 
definition and for the required deferred time. However, under group schemes, the employer 
is the policyholder  not the employee. So a conversation would need to take place between 
the employee and employer. And generally speaking, a separate, new claim would need to 
be made under the policy  as this claim would have has a separate start date, with a 
different deferred period and updated/new medical evidence. In most cases, this would not 
be considered a continuation of the original, declined claim.
So for this complaint to be upheld, Mrs M needs to show she met the policy definition of 
incapacitated for the whole 26 weeks before the date she expected the policy to pay out. As 
Mrs M first went off sick in October 2018, she expected the policy to start paying out from 
April 2019. So this is the claim shes put in with MetLife  and I need to assess whether she 
met the definition required of her during this deferred time period. If Mrs M didnt, it would be 
fair that her claim was unsuccessful.
The policy definition of incapacitated Mrs M needs to meet is:
Unable to perform their own occupation - an insured member, eligible employee or 
eligible partner, is incapacitated if: 
- they are unable to perform, due to illness or injury, the material and substantial 
duties required of them in their own occupation which they were performing 
immediately prior to being incapacitated; and 
- are not following any other occupation.
Mrs M has described the workplace dispute she was involved in and the great deal of stress 
this caused her. I understand this was due to a change in job role. However its important to 
set out that stress is not classed as an illness or injury. So Mrs M wouldnt be able to claim 
on the policy if she was purely off work due to workplace stress; or if a workplace dispute 
meant she felt unable to go to work. This is because the term relates to her performing the 
duties of her job, rather than her working for her own employer.
In this case, MetLife believes that the primary reason Mrs M was off work was due to the 
workplace issues she was facing (not illness or injury). And that if these issues had resolved, 
she wouldve been able to carry out the duties of her role  despite her other health 
conditions. Mrs M is however arguing that she was off due to both mental and physical 
illnesses, not just stress caused by the situation at her work. And shes stated that her 
mental health deteriorated to the point where she couldnt work at all  regardless of the 
dispute.Ive reviewed the evidence available for Mrs Ms mental health conditions to see if these 
meant she met the definition required.
Mrs M completed her claims form for this policy in December 2018. As part of this form she 
was asked if she was considering returning to work. And to provide further details if the 
answer was yes. Mrs M answered:
I would consider returning to work if [I] felt less stressed and discriminated against 
but BSI refuse to engage with me and the relationship has broken down causing 
deep distress
So Mrs M doesnt list any mental or physical health conditions as a barrier to her return to 
work here. And later in the form she provides details of when her symptoms first occurred. 
She lists March 2013 to April 2018 as the date range that she was prevented from working 
by her symptoms, which covers the different health issues shes suffered. However I note 
she was working periodically during this time period  and up until October 2018. She states 
that shes been suffering from mental health issues since April 2018, when her job role 
changed and her dispute with her employer began.
Reviewing the letter shes provided by a psychologist at the centre she attended, Mrs M was 
referred there in December 2017. I appreciate she didnt start courses until late 2018, but 
she received the original referral the previous year. And she was able to return to work 
despite waiting for this treatment, which was before her workplace dispute began. It seems 
this referral was originally linked to an accident Mrs M had in August 2017, however it was 
then expanded to deal with other mental health conditions.
Reviewing the letter from Mrs Ms GP in April 2019, which covers the deferred period, this 
suggests that the mental health issues she is suffering are linked to and in part caused by 
her workplace situation.
In her court impact statement, Mrs M has stated she was diagnosed with PTSD in March 
2019, so towards the end of the deferred period. Her GP has discussed the impact this 
condition had on her in a letter from April 2019 and also provided a letter in June 2020 
stating this was diagnosed in October 2018. But I also note Mrs M comprehensively listed 
her illnesses going back to 2013 on her December 2018 claim form, but didnt list PTSD at 
this time. And none of her fit notes before April 2019 say this or her other mental health 
issues are the reason/s shes off work  despite her suffering from two other mental health 
conditions. I also have to factor in that her GP has stated that the PTSD was triggered in part 
by the workplace issues. So considering Mrs Ms mental health as a whole, Im not 
persuaded that it was these illnesses that continuously prevented Mrs M from working during 
the deferred period. 
Ive then considered the evidence provided in relation to Mrs Ms physical symptoms. 
Mrs Ms fit note from October 2018 states stress at work and chronic pain as the reason 
shes off. Her January 2019 fit note states stress at work as the reason shes off  not any 
of her physical symptoms. While I appreciate her physical illnesses do cause Mrs M pain 
and make daily activities more difficult, she was able to work with these conditions prior to 
her workplace dispute. So Ive then reviewed the evidence to see if theres been a marked 
decline in any of her on-going physical illnesses in the deferred period. 
I understand that Mrs M visited one of her consultants in October 2018 and at this time at 
this time she described a condition which felt as though it had worsened, in relation to joint 
pain. And its noted that thered been an acceleration in the issues affecting this joint  and 
that this was causing her pain. This is the only condition Ive seen evidence for a decline of 
during the deferred period. I note Mrs M has provided details of another medical condition impacting her leg. But this is first reported as worse in May 2019, after the deferred period 
had ended. And this has been linked to Mrs M no longer being able to receive therapy for 
this illness after January 2019 (so half way through the deferred time).
Mrs M has provided us with a letter from her review with the above consultant in April 2019. 
This states that the joint pain is being managed with the help of medication. And this letter 
doesnt suggest that this condition caused or would cause Mrs M to be off work  or that this 
condition would make her unfit for the duties of her role. This report, Mrs Ms claim form and 
her Occupational Health review dont outline anything that suggests she couldnt do the 
duties of her job with this injury  albeit with some adjustments made. I also havent seen 
that any treatment was prescribed for Mrs M in the October 2018 consultation, other than 
continuing her pain medication and monitoring of her condition. 
Reviewing the evidence available, I cant say that MetLife has acted unfairly in stating that 
workplace issues in addition to ongoing, existing mental and physical health issues are what 
caused Mrs M to be off work. And it does seem plausible that if the workplace situation had 
been resolved to Mrs Ms satisfaction early on (and during the deferred period), she wouldve 
been able to resume the duties of her role, despite her ongoing illnesses. I appreciate Mrs M 
was suffering from all the above conditions and symptoms at the same time. But even 
combining the effects of these conditions on Mrs M, I dont consider she met the definition of 
incapacitated continuously during the deferred period  as required of her.
Mrs M has provided us with a letter completed in September 2019 by a Universal Credit 
nurse, which states that she had limited capacity for work due to her cancer treatment 
(defined as chemotherapy and radiotherapy). However, as Ive set out above, the test for 
whether Mrs M is eligible for benefit under her policy is set out in her terms. So I need to 
apply this test, not one used by Universal Credit. And MetLife has shown that Mrs M was 
able to return to work following her different cancer treatments. So this hasnt changed my 
decision.
Mrs M has explained to us that shes now been able to reach a settlement with her 
employer, so she has left their employment. And that it was concluded in this that her reason 
for leaving the employment was ill health and disability. She considers this further shows she 
was unable to work for those reasons. But I understand this is the reason Mrs M can 
disclose, as per the terms of her settlement. So its very much tied to the settlement and as 
an agreed resolution to her employment issues. Its not therefore a conclusion thats been 
reached by a medical professional or due to medical evidence. So I dont consider this is 
enough to change my decision. 
Ive considered the conditions Mrs M suffers from alongside the medical evidence we hold. I 
acknowledge that when Mrs M was reviewed by Occupational Health in April 2019, they did 
conclude that she was unfit to work. However, as Ive set out above, to claim on the policy 
Mrs M needs to be unable to perform the duties of her role due to illness/injury. Ive 
considered the combined impact of her illnesses. But I havent seen persuasive evidence 
that it was this impact, and not the workplace situation, that made Mrs M unable to perform 
her duties during the deferred period. The majority of the medical evidence and reports we 
hold instead state the workplace issue as the root cause of Mrs Ms absence. And I cant 
safely say that if, in the deferred period, Mrs Ms employer had resolved the situation to her 
satisfaction, she wouldve still met the definition of incapacitated. Nor can I safely say that 
she wouldnt have been able to perform the duties of her role elsewhere. So I dont think 
MetLife was wrong to decline her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman