DRN-3679524
The complaint
Miss S and Mr Y complain QIC Europe Ltd has unfairly declined a claim theyve made under 
their buildings insurance policy for damage to their property following a storm.
What happened
Mr Y has led this complaint with this Service, so Ive referred to him throughout. The 
background is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary here.
Mr Y owns a property insured by a QIC buildings insurance policy.
Following two storms, Mr Y noticed damage to his roof and reported it to QIC. It sent 
a surveyor to investigate and he concluded the damage was as a result of wear and 
tear and the storm merely highlighted the problem. QIC declined the claim as this 
cause of damage was excluded under the policy.
Our Investigator considered the evidence but didnt uphold the complaint as he was 
satisfied QIC had declined the claim fairly based on the expert evidence available. Mr 
Y asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer makes a claim on a policy the onus is on them to show the claim 
is covered by the policy terms. When an insurer relies on an exclusion to decline a 
claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion applies.
In this case, QIC accepts there were storm conditions present around the time of the 
claim so I dont need to consider this. So, Ive gone on to look at the evidence QIC 
relied on to decline the claim together with the exclusion in the policy terms.
The relevant exclusion is detailed in the General Exclusions section of the policy and 
explains that it doesnt cover Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes 
includingwear and tear. Theres a similar exclusion under the Storm section of the 
policy.
QICs surveyors who inspected the damage concluded the proximate cause of 
damage was the breakdown of the hip tile and mortar bond over a significant time 
which had allowed wind to lift the tiles away from the roof. 
QICs in-house surveyor reviewed the photographic evidence and concluded the 
mortar holding the ridge tiles had deteriorated and highlighted the loose bond 
between the roof and tiles. He commented that had the pre-existing condition of the 
mortar been better, the wind wouldnt have been able to lift the tiles. 
I know Mr Y says hes regularly inspected his roof while undertaking routine 
maintenance and says hes not seen any cracking to the mortar joints. He also says 
its not reasonable for a policyholder to be expected to know mortar hasnt bonded 
with the underneath of the ridge tiles. In short, he disagrees with the conclusions 
reached by QICs experts.
Having carefully considered the expert opinions, I find them persuasive and in 
keeping with the images available to me. While I acknowledge Mr Ys disagreement 
with these conclusions, on balance and in the absence of any alternative expert 
opinion suggesting a different cause, Im satisfied it was fair for QIC to rely on the 
exclusion relating to gradual clauses to decline the claim.
I wont be asking QIC to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman