DRN-3965306
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund £25,000 she 
lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Miss B fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam after 
she was contacted by a broker (the scammer) who instructed her to open accounts with 
Binance and Safepal. She was told to make payments to Binance first, where she would 
then send the money on to her Safepal account before finally transferring it to the scammer. 
As part of the scam, Miss B made the following payments from her Halifax account:
Date Payee Payment type Amount
13/01/2022 Binance Debit card £1,000
17/01/2022 Cheng Hei Wai Faster payment £4,000
21/01/2022 Binance Debit card £5,000
21/01/2022 Binance Debit card £5,000
24/01/2022 Binance Debit card £5,000
24/01/2022 Binance Debit card £5,000
Miss B realised she had been scammed after she was unable to access any of her money 
and the scammer stopped responding. She reported the fraud to Halifax, but it refused to 
refund any of the money she had lost as she had authorised the payments.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He didnt think Halifax was liable to refund any 
of the payments that were not covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code) as Miss B had misled the bank when it asked her about the payments. So, he didnt 
think any further intervention would have likely revealed the scam. However, in terms of the 
payment covered under the CRM Code, the investigator thought that Halifax should refund 
50% as he thought Miss B had a reasonable basis for believing the payments to be genuine. 
Halifax accepted the investigators findings and agreed to settle the complaint by 
reimbursing 50% of the £4,000 payment covered under the CRM Code. Miss B disagreed. 
She thought that Halifax didnt do enough to prevent her falling victim to the scam. As she 
didnt agree, the matter has been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it.
It isnt in dispute that Miss B has fallen victim to a cruel scam here, nor that she authorised 
the disputed payments she made from her Halifax account. The payments were requested 
using her legitimate security credentials provided by Halifax, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed. But Ive considered whether there is any fair and 
reasonable basis for Halifax to reimburse any of the payments.
Payments not covered under the CRM Code
The vast majority of payments Miss B made as part of the scam do not fall within the scope 
of the CRM Code for reimbursement as they were made by debit card. However, Ive 
considered whether Halifax should have done more to prevent Miss B from falling victim to 
the scam outside its obligations under the CRM Code, as there are some situations in which 
a bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Having considered the first payment Miss B made on 13 January 2022, I dont think it would 
have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Miss Bs 
account history, so I dont think there was any cause for Halifax to have been concerned 
here. 
In terms of the remaining card payments, its common ground that some were considered 
unusual given that they did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and were 
automatically blocked pending further enquiry, such as the £5,000 payment made to Binance 
on 21 January 2022. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in 
all the circumstances with its interventions.
Having listened to the call recordings of the occasions Halifax spoke to Miss B, I accept its 
arguable that it could have gone further in its questioning. But even accepting this as the 
case, Im not persuaded that any further questioning or earlier intervention would have 
ultimately uncovered the scam and prevented the loss in any event. 
I say this because Miss B was not honest with Halifax when it asked her questions about the 
payments she was making. She said, for example, that she had not been asked to make the 
payments by any broker, and that no one had helped her to set up her Binance account or 
had asked her to use this company, despite this being untrue. She also said that no one had 
told her to lie to the bank. 
I appreciate that Miss B may have been coached to lie to bank by the scammer. But it was 
based upon the answers Miss B gave that the bank was satisfied the payment wasnt likely 
being made as part of a scam. If she had answered the questions accurately and said she 
was in contact with a third-party broker and was investing in cryptocurrency, then I accept it 
would have been incumbent on Halifax to maintain suspicion about the payments and probe 
further into the circumstances. But seeing as Miss B was not forthcoming with these details, I 
dont think any further probing from Halifax would have likely revealed that she was being 
scammed. So, in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Halifax 
liable for Miss Bs losses that are not covered by the CRM Code, because it seems more 
likely than not that she would have always made the payment to the scammers, 
notwithstanding any intervention made by the bank.
Payments covered by the CRM Code
As Ive outlined above, the faster payment of £4,000 that Miss B made on 17 January 2022 
would fall within the scope of the CRM Code for reimbursement.
In line with the investigators view, Halifax has since accepted that Miss B had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payment to be genuine and has therefore agreed to reimburse 50% in 
line with the Code. As such, I do not intend exploring this point any further given it is no 
longer in dispute. What does remain in dispute, however, is whether Miss B ignored an 
effective warning. 
Halifax hasnt been able to show that it did provide Miss B with an effective warning, so its 
not clear that Halifax did meets its obligations under the Code. However, part SF of the Code 
provides that The assessment of whether a Firm has met a standard or not should involve 
consideration of whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on 
preventing the APP scam that took place. 
As Ive set out above, Miss B was not honest with the bank when it questioned her about the 
payments she was making. As a result, its unlikely she wouldve revealed the true reason 
for making the faster payment as well, meaning that Halifax would have been prevented 
from providing a specific Effective Warning in relation to the scam she was falling victim to. 
As a result, Im not persuaded its failure to provide such a warning wouldve had a material 
effect on preventing the scam, so Im satisfied it can rely on the exception to reimbursement, 
such that it wouldnt have to pay anything over and above the 50% it has already agreed to 
reimburse. 
Halifax has also said that it will pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the 
payment was made until the date of settlement, so I dont consider it necessary to make any 
further finding on how it should pay interest, and Im satisfied that its offer of settlement in 
this case is fair.  
I also note that Halifax has also paid Miss B £200 for the delay in responding to her 
complaint. However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore falls outside 
the jurisdiction of this service to consider, so its not something I can comment on, though 
Im pleased to see that Halifax has made an offer to put things right in any event. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax to:
Refund 50% of the £4,000 payment Miss B made on 17 January 2022.
Pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman