DRN-3123224
The complaint
 Mr I is unhappy Nationwide Building Society hasnt refunded him all the money he lost when 
he fell victim to a safe account scam.
What happened
 The circumstances that led to this complaint are known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary, Mr I says he responded to a message which suggested 
he was due a rebate from HMRC. This led to a call, the following day, from a scammer who 
pretended to be a Nationwide employee. This individual told Mr I that his Nationwide account 
had been compromised, so he needed to move his money to a safe place. So, as instructed 
by the scammer, Mr I used his online banking facility to move £3,154 from his account to two 
accounts held with other financial providers. 
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. This is 
a voluntary scheme Nationwide has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for legitimate 
purposes;
has been grossly negligent.
Nationwide refunded the second payment, of £1,345, because it failed to provide Mr I with 
the correct Confirmation of Payee response. But it refused to refund the other £1,800, 
because it says Mr I failed to heed the warnings it gave him.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had provided an effective warning and thought Mr Is 
actions were fairly guided by him having a reasonable basis for believing he was speaking 
with a member of Nationwides staff. So the investigator said Nationwide ought to have fully 
reimbursed Mr I at the time he made his claim and so should pay the remaining £1,800, 
together with interest at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date Nationwide declined his 
claim to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 8 September 2021 with a deadline 
for responding of 29 September 2021. Nationwides response was chased on 5 October and 
the deadline for response extended to 12 October 2021. That deadline has also passed and 
Nationwide has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure 
by a party to provide information requested
And that:
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed with 
consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress or 
material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to make.
In the absence of a response from Nationwide to the investigators initial assessment, I 
consider its fair and reasonable to proceed with a decision based on the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of Nationwides failure to reply to the investigators 
opinion. 
There are some gaps in my understanding of how exactly this particular scam unfolded. But, 
as Ive already set out, the starting position under the CRM Code is for a customer to be 
refunded when theyve fallen victim to a scam and theres no dispute here that, that is what 
happened to Mr I. Nationwide has chosen not to refund £1,800 of Mr Is losses but, having 
reviewed its submissions, I dont think its properly established that it gave him an effective 
warning or that he didnt meet his requisite level of care. I say this bearing in mind 
Nationwide has shared the wording of a warning, but has not provided any evidence to show 
this was provided to, or seen by, Mr I specifically when he made the £1,800 transfer. And, as 
the investigator explained, Mr I thought he was speaking with Nationwide and saw no reason 
not to do what he was told in order to protect his money.
In the circumstances, and in line with the CRM Code, I think it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Mr I to have received a full refund when he notified Nationwide about the 
scam.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr I ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. So my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr I:
the remaining £1,800 he lost, plus;
interest calculated at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax 
properly deductible) from the date Nationwide declined Mr Is claim under the CRM Code 
to the date of settlement.
Nationwide should make this payment within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr Is 
acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Ruth HerseyOmbudsman