DRN-4256196
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice he received from Baker Financial Planning LTD (BFP) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined benefits (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). Mr H says that BFP told him that the regulator doesnt 
like advice to transfer out of DB schemes, so they would have to advise him not to but would 
still be happy to facilitate the transfer.
What happened
While I have considered all of the evidence submitted by both parties to this dispute, I have 
not set out everything here. The following is what I consider to be the key fact and events 
leading up to this complaint.
Mr H approached BFP in January 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr H 
was an active member of his employers DB scheme and he told us that his employer had 
offered a 25% uplift to his salary if he transferred out of the scheme. He said that opting out 
was a topic of conversation amongst colleagues, so he sought advice to explore his options.  
BFP completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives. 
Amongst other things this recorded that Mr H was 44, he was employed full-time but also 
had his own business, part of which he had sold. Following the end of the earn out period in 
2018, he intended to sell the remaining shares in his business, which he expected to receive 
a significant sum of money for. Mr H didnt see himself in his current job long-term and after 
the sale of his business he wanted to try something new. Hed contacted his employer about 
opting out and wanted to transfer his pension to a personal arrangement because he 
believed the transfer value was high. His objectives for transferring were to leave money to 
his family, have control over the money, to be able to access the money as he saw fit and 
because he had concerns about the viability of the scheme. 
On 22 January 2017, BFP set out its advice in relation to Mr H opting out of his DB scheme. 
The letter set out Mr Hs circumstances as recorded in the fact-find as well as his goals and 
objectives. It said that Mr H wouldve opted out already, but his employers offer to increase 
his salary was contingent on him taking financial advice. It said the reason Mr H wanted to 
opt out was to secure what he believed was the best transfer value he would achieve and 
transfer to a personal pension arrangement. 
The letter said that Mr Hs rationale for transferring was based on what he thought was going 
to happen in the future  for example falling transfer values, his expectation that he would 
leave his employment in 2018 and that he would realise a sizeable seven figure sum from 
the sale of the remaining shares in his business. 
So BFP said that it thought the sensible approach would be not to transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement. And so that being the case, it said its advice to Mr H was not to opt 
out of the scheme but wait until hed left his employment and re-assess things then.
On the same day, BFP sent Mr H an email with a report containing ideas for an investment 
strategy it felt he was looking for his pension monies if the advice were to transfer your 
pension monies to a personal pension arrangement. The report showed examples of 
investment returns over the past five years as well as typical fund charges. It also said that it 
would be prepared to discount its usual adviser charges.
At the end of January 2017 Mr H chose to opt-out of his DB scheme and after he received a 
guaranteed transfer value from his scheme trustees  a value of around £1,057,000 - he 
asked BFP to advise him on transferring his DB scheme benefits.
In a typed file note dated 20 March 2017, the adviser recorded that he spoke to Mr H who 
wanted to know where his report was at. It said theyd spoken to Mr H on 3 March 2017 and 
told him that because of the critical yields and the percentage of his guaranteed income, he 
thought he should keep his pension where it was, although it would not be formal advice until 
written up. The note says that Mr H told the adviser at the time he would insist against it 
because hed thought long and hard about things. The note says that the adviser agreed to 
write up the report that day and that Mr H would have to follow the insistent client process if 
he really wanted to go ahead, but that hed have to read the report first.
On 20 March 2017 BFP advised Mr H not to transfer the benefits from his DB scheme to a 
personal pension arrangement. The suitability report was a 52-page document, so I havent 
set out everything here. But, in summary it reminded Mr H that its advice was not to opt out 
of his DB scheme. And it said that its reasons for recommending that Mr H should not 
transfer out were that it didnt think there were compelling reasons to transfer given the high 
critical yield and in light of Mr Hs DB scheme making up a major part of his retirement 
provision. It said despite Mr Hs desire for control, flexibility and to provide lump sum death 
benefits to his family, it felt the loss of pension income he would incur by transferring was too 
great to justify, particularly as Mr H didnt have other assets or sources of income he could 
live off if his pension investments performed poorly. It said that, while it understood Mr H had 
already opted out, its advice was not to transfer and instead he should leave his benefits and 
take them at the schemes normal retirement age of 60, if possible.
On 21 March 2017, a handwritten file note by the BFP adviser (provided by Mr Hs 
representative) indicates that a phone conversation took place in which Mr H indicated that 
he wanted to go ahead with the transfer despite the advice not to. In summary the file note 
records that Mr H said the following: he was confident about his assumptions  selling his 
shares and leaving his employment  and so was comfortable giving up the guarantees of 
the DB scheme; he believed the pot of money would allow him the retirement he and his wife 
wanted; and hed thought hard about things before he met with BFP and the decision was 
made when he opted himself out of the scheme. The note goes on to record that Mr H asked 
the adviser to waive the cooling-off period so things could be done in time for him to receive 
his salary uplift in his April pay. The note records that the adviser asked Mr H for a 
handwritten letter putting his ideas to them and that it was important he did so. The note 
says that Mr H agreed to do this, but asked if the transfer could proceed in the meantime. 
The adviser said they would, but that Mr H must provide his letter as soon as possible.
The typed file note, as I referred to above, appears to summarise the handwritten note  in 
an entry marked Update 21 March 2017 it records that Mr H had read the report and still 
wanted to insist; he asked to waive the cooling off period; and had plenty of time to consider 
the matter and wouldnt have opted out if he wasnt sure he was going to transfer.
In a letter dated 23 March 2017, BFP confirmed that Mr H had decided to proceed against 
advice and that hed asked it to advise him on a suitable personal pension plan to transfer to. 
It said that Mr H had read the suitability report but had decided a transfer was still the right 
thing for him. The letter said Mr H had given his reasons for wanting to transfer in his letter of 
22 March 2017, which broadly reflected his objectives the advice paperwork had previously 
recorded. The letter repeated the risks of transferring and repeated its advice that Mr H would be better off by not transferring. The letter then set out a recommendation for a 
suitable personal pension and investment strategy.
Despite referring to Mr Hs insistent client letter of 22 March 2017, Mr H didnt provide it. So
on 20 April 2017, BFP emailed Mr H to chase up his handwritten letter explaining why he 
wanted to go against the advice. It said it had attached something to help  a typed letter 
with reasons why Mr H wanted to proceed against advice. The reasons given in the letter 
were: being confident that the assumptions about leaving his employment and selling his 
shares in his company would happen, so he was comfortable giving up the guarantees of his 
DB scheme; the pot of money and other assets would allow him to have the retirement he 
wanted; and that he was conscious of his obligation to leave his children what was left of his 
pension. The letter also said hed thought hard about the implications of transferring and he 
wanted to transfer his benefits to a pension with an investment strategy in line with his risk 
profile.
Mr H duly returned his handwritten letter, which was almost identical to the example letter 
BFP had sent him - but Mr H omitted the reference to wanting to leave his children what 
remained of his pension.
Mr H complained in 2022 to BFP about the suitability of the transfer advice. In summary 
Mr H said he wouldve been better off staying in his DB scheme.
BFP didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary it said Mr H was not given unsuitable 
advice. It said Mr H was first advised not to opt out of the DB scheme and then advised not 
to transfer. It said this was set out in its recommendation letter of 20 March 2017, which 
Mr H signed. It said despite this advice, Mr H insisted on the transfer contrary to its advice. 
It said Mr H wouldve decided to go ahead in any event  hed already opted out contrary to 
its advice and had made up his mind to transfer regardless of the advice he received.
Mr H then referred his complaint to us using the services of a representative. An investigator 
looked at things and they didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in relation to the advice and 
discussions BFP had with Mr H in January 2017, while they accepted that the email the 
adviser sent Mr H on 22 January 2017 talked about the growth potential of transferring and 
so this supports that they did likely talk about the positives of transferring, they said BFPs 
written advice letter the same day clearly detailed the risks. And this included the risks of 
Mr H opting out. They said this letter was also clear that the advice was not to transfer. They 
said if they accept the adviser did only speak about the benefits, they couldnt understand 
why upon receipt of the written advice it didnt prompt Mr H to question what he was told 
verbally. They said they thought Mr H wouldve continued to transfer regardless of the advice 
he received.
Turning to the formal transfer advice in March 2017  they said the recommendation letter 
went through Mr Hs goals and other areas, all of which showed that a transfer wasnt in 
Mr Hs best interests. They said the report was very detailed and it was made clear the 
advice was to remain and draw benefits from the scheme. They said theyd considered 
whether the insistent client process was correctly followed. 
And while they were concerned that the adviser had provided Mr H with a template to use to 
go against the advice, it was clear from the call notes and the clarity of the advice letters that 
the risks associated with transferring were made clear and transferring was not suitable for 
Mr H. So, they concluded that Mr H did want to go ahead with the transfer in any event.
Mr H disagreed. In summary he said he felt the investigators findings were biased in favour 
of BFP. He said the investigator referred to not being able to use verbal conversations as evidence  but he said these are crucial to the case but only BFPs verbal input was 
considered. He said in relation to the reference to BFPs final response letter where the 
investigator said he decided to proceed anyway, this was incorrect  it was the advisers 
advice and not his decision. He said the adviser told him he would write this in the report yet 
still advised to push forward with the transfer. He said no reference was made to the 
occasion when BFP asked for a signature on the paperwork that would be filled out later at 
the office, something he says would surely be frowned upon. He said many of the comments 
apparently contained within BFPs notes, and referred to in the report were news to him  he 
doesnt recall these and completely refutes that some of the conversations took place.
Mr H added that the investigator referred to BFP providing him with a template for him to 
copy, but he said this is wrong  BFP wrote it and he was asked to sign it. He asks why this 
wasnt considered as being odd or unprofessional. Mr H also challenged the reference to the 
massive uplift in salary as being crucial. He said the uplift was in fact around £1,000 and 
given he had significant savings at the time, the urgency to get the uplift is nonsense. 
He says BFP used this as a means to show the transfer appeared rushed and desperate on 
his part.
BFP maintained its position that when Mr H met with the adviser hed already made up his 
mind to opt out and to transfer and it broadly repeated the sequence of events and the 
advice it gave to Mr H not to transfer. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of BFP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to not uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, BFP should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs 
best interests.
Insistent client 
A key aspect in this case is BFPs categorisation of Mr H as an insistent client - this is a 
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended and wants 
the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there were no regulatory rules in place in respect of insistent 
clients. But in February 2016 the regulator provided guidance on its website about what 
steps it expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are 3 key 
steps, which it set out on its website as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must 
be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If 
the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not 
suitable (see COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that 
he/she is acting against it advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to 
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this would normally be clear.
The regulator also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and 
poor practice. It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding 
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the receiving 
product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal 
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome in a 
separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve expected BFP to have been aware of this 
and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the regulators 
expectations.
Suitability of advice
For the sake of completeness, I think it is clear from the information and evidence available about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives at the time of the advice that a transfer out of 
Mr Hs DB pension scheme wasnt suitable or in his best interests  I think this was a fair 
and reasonable conclusion for BFP to make. And because this was the conclusion reached 
by BFP, I dont think it is necessary for me to explain in detail why I think it wasnt in Mr Hs 
best interests to transfer. 
Focusing on BFPs formal advice not to transfer in its March 2017 suitability letter, BFP 
broadly gave two main reasons why Mr H shouldnt transfer. Firstly it said Mr H shouldnt 
transfer because the critical yield or investment return required to replicate Mr Hs DB 
benefits at his desired retirement age of 57 were too high. BFP calculated that Mr Hs 
pension fund would need to grow by over 7.5% a year if he took a full pension and just over 
6.5% a year if he took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. BFP said that it didnt 
believe these investment returns were achievable given the returns Mr H could reasonably 
expect from investing with a medium attitude to risk. So it didnt think Mr H could secure a 
better annuity at age 57 than the scheme pension income at this age. I think it was clear 
from this that transferring to a personal pension arrangement would lead to Mr H receiving 
significantly lower retirement benefits at his preferred retirement age.
The second reason BFP gave for recommending Mr H not transfer was because, despite 
what was recorded about Mr H believing that he would have significant monies in the future 
through the sale of the remaining shares in his business, as it stood at the moment, Mr Hs 
DB scheme represented the main source of funding for his retirement. So, BFP concluded 
that Mr Hs pension represented too high a percentage of his retirement assets to justify 
putting them at risk. And I think this was suitable advice - Mr H did not have the capacity for 
loss to take on the investment risk associated with transferring to a personal pension 
arrangement.
BFPs overall conclusion was that, while it recognised Mr H wanted to take control of his 
pension, take his benefits flexibility and provide lump sum death benefits for his family, it 
believed the loss of pension income Mr H would face by transferring did not justify a transfer 
to a personal pension particularly as he didnt have other assets or sources of income to rely 
on if investment returns were poor. BFP also advised that Mr H shouldnt take benefits until 
the schemes normal retirement age, if possible. 
Having considered all of this, I agree with BFP that it wasnt in Mr Hs best interests to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension at this time. I think it was right for 
BFP to recommend Mr H leave his benefits where they were. While this meant Mr H might 
not have been able to meet his stated objectives for flexibility, control and better death 
benefits, I dont think these things outweighed the risk of Mr H suffering a reduction in 
pension income as a result of transferring.
Was Mr H an insistent client  was it fair for BFP to treat him as such?
BFP says that Mr H was an insistent client and that he intended to carry out the transfer of 
his pension regardless of the advice it provided him with  hed already made up his mind to 
opt out of his pension scheme and to transfer by the time he met with the adviser. 
Mr H says that he was told by the adviser that the regulator didnt like advice to transfer out 
of a DB pension, so theyd have to suggest not to first, but would be happy to facilitate the 
transfer anyway.
As I said above, at the time of the advice, there were no regulatory rules in place in respect 
of insistent clients. But the regulators guidance covered three key steps it expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, while I accept there were some 
shortcomings in the process BFP employed and how it treated Mr H as an insistent client, 
which I will highlight below, even if BFP had done everything it should fairly and reasonably 
have done, I still think Mr H wouldve gone ahead with the transfer of his pension. Ill explain 
why.
It was Mr H who initiated contact with BFP in January 2017 because he wanted to discuss 
the options for his pension including whether he should opt out as an active member of his 
DB scheme. The primary focus of BFPs advice at this time was that Mr H should not opt out 
of his DB scheme but wait until he left his current employment. And I think this was clear. 
But, because it was documented that Mr Hs desire to opt out was ultimately driven by him 
wanting to also transfer to a personal pension arrangement, BFP indicated at this stage that, 
based on the information available, it believed it was unlikely to be suitable to transfer out. 
I think the reason BFP expressed an opinion that it was unlikely to be suitable to transfer 
rather than give a formal recommendation at this stage, was because I dont think it was in a 
position to formalise its advice on the transfer. This is because Mr H didnt yet have a 
guaranteed transfer value from his scheme trustees to allow BFP to produce the transfer 
value analysis which the regulator required it to do in giving DB pension transfer advice. 
Nevertheless, I think it wouldve been clear to Mr H from what was written here that BFP 
would be unlikely to recommend a transfer.
I can see Mr Hs representative has referred to the email BFP sent Mr H on 22 January 2017 
in which it put together a report about possible investment ideas for a pension transfer of 
Mr Hs size, which was the same day Mr Hs representative says BFP advised Mr H not to 
transfer. It says this suggests BFP intended to facilitate the transfer regardless of the written 
advice. BFP says this was sent to Mr H to prompt a general discussion about possible 
investment strategies for a transfer of Mr Hs size.
Ive thought about this. On the one hand, I accept the timing of the two pieces of 
communication appears odd and that as the Investigator said, the separate communications 
could be seen as contradictory. But on the other hand, it seems from the language used in 
the email containing the investment ideas, that this was based on earlier discussions and the 
adviser sent it later than he intended. The adviser wrote: Sorry it took a little longer than 
planned. The information contained here was not in my view an encouragement to transfer 
or an indication that it intended to facilitate the transfer at this stage regardless of the advice 
it gave. The report contained information about example investment strategies, it explained 
what a SIPP was and it covered charges / fees. It also said the investment information was 
being provided (if the advice were to transfer your pension monies to a personal pension 
arrangement). In the circumstances I dont think it was wrong or unreasonable for BFP to 
have sent Mr H this kind of information or in the format in which it was presented.
Given the investment information was emailed to Mr H, I think its likely he received this 
before he received BFPs letter of 22 January 2017 formally writing up their discussions. I 
think the timing of the two pieces of communication was perhaps clumsy  but I dont think 
BFPs email undermined what was contained in its letter of the same day. I think this was 
clear that its advice was that Mr H should not opt out of his DB scheme and that it was 
unlikely a transfer to a personal pension arrangement was suitable. 
BFPs formal advice and recommendation to Mr H not to transfer out was set out in its 
suitability letter of 20 March 2017 after Mr H opted himself out of the scheme and obtained a 
guaranteed transfer value. It appears Mr H went on to opt-out of his DB scheme against the 
advice he was given.While at over 50 pages this letter was lengthy, overall I think it provided a clear 
recommendation and explanation of why Mr H should not transfer his DB pension and the 
risks and implications of doing so. It set out the benefits Mr H would receive from his DB 
scheme at his desired retirement age and it explained that Mr Hs desire for an income of 
£40,000 was far greater than this. It said that unless Mr H had significant other funds, by 
taking an inflation-protected income of this amount from age 57 utilising drawdown he was 
likely to run out of money during his lifetime. 
Im mindful that the section in the suitability letter where the adviser said they had carried out 
additional work in the form of extra questions to determine Mr Hs thoughts on specific 
matters relating to DB pension arrangements, could be seen to be contradictory or 
misleading. I say this because it said here that, specifically in relation to death benefits and 
cash sums at retirement, its recommendation was to transfer. But this section wasnt 
intended to be read in isolation. The previous conclusions reached in the sections above 
said a transfer wasnt suitable and in any event this section concluded by saying that after 
BFP had considered things in the round, it didnt recommend a transfer. So I dont think this 
undermined things or misled Mr H into thinking the advice was to transfer. 
Overall, I think the advice and explanation BFP provided was reasonable and that Mr H 
ought reasonably to have understood that BFP did not recommend he transfer his DB 
pension to a personal pension arrangement and the reasons and risks why it reached this 
conclusion.  
BFPs next written communication was its letter of 23 March 2017. This said that Mr H had 
chosen to proceed against its advice not to transfer and that hed asked BFP to provide him 
with a suitable personal pension to transfer to. BFP repeated its advice here not to transfer 
and it also reminded Mr H of the risks of transferring, including the impact on his standard of 
living given certain assumed investment growth rates and that, because his pension made 
up such a large part of his overall retirement provision, he was creating a disproportionate 
level of risk to his retirement objectives. I think setting this out in a separate letter to Mr H 
was the right thing to do.
However, I think there were some shortcomings in the insistent client process BFP employed 
here. I say this because BFPs letter of 23 March 2017 referred to Mr Hs letter of 22 March 
2017 in which hed given his reasons for still wanting to transfer his benefits and it listed 
them out. But at this stage Mr H had not provided such a letter to BFP. BFPs agreement to 
proceed with the transfer on an insistent client basis was based on a phone call with Mr H of 
21 March 2017 and his agreement to provide a handwritten letter as soon as he could giving 
his reasons for wanting to go ahead anyway. And as I set out earlier on, there is a file note of 
this telephone conversation. 
So, reference to Mr Hs letter was made in anticipation that hed provide one dated 
22 March 2017 giving his reasons for wanting to go ahead. But at the time of BFPs letter of 
23 March 2017, Mr H had not yet provided it. So I dont think BFP shouldve said here that 
he had done so. I think BFP shouldve been clearer about things and the basis upon which it 
was willing to facilitate things and proceed with the transfer.
I also think it wouldve been good practice for BFP to have waited for Mr H to provide his 
written letter to indicate that he wanted to act against its advice and the reasons why before 
carrying out things. 
It appears the reason BFP agreed to progress things without this and to waive the cooling off 
period was because Mr H was keen to progress things quickly. Its recorded that he wanted 
to take advantage of the salary uplift his employer was offering for transferring away in time 
for the next payroll. Mr H has disputed this  he says he had plenty of money in the bank and it wasnt as 
important as BFP made out. But it was clearly documented in BFPs file note of their phone 
conversation of 21 March 2017 and in BFPs letter of 23 March 2017. Mr H also referred to 
this when he did provide his insistent client letter, which I will discuss more about below. 
I find it unlikely BFP wouldve documented this if it wasnt a true reflection of what was 
discussed at the time  I would have expected Mr H to query this at the time otherwise.
I can see that Mr H didnt provide his handwritten insistent client letter until April 2017 when 
BFP followed things up with him. I think BFP shouldve followed this up sooner with Mr H. 
When it did, while it asked Mr H for a handwritten letter, the adviser attached something to 
help  a typed letter, template or example of what Mr H should write. BFP says that, given it 
was several weeks later the adviser did this to act as a reminder to Mr H. Mr H says it wasnt 
a template for him to copy  he says BFP wrote it and he was asked to sign it. He asks why 
this wasnt considered as being odd or unprofessional.
The regulatory guidance I referred to above said that, when a client wants to act against 
advice, to show that they understand the risks involved with their chosen course of action, 
using their own words to explain why would normally make this clear. In this case, the 
adviser wrote something out for Mr H  essentially allowing him to copy it. So, on the one 
hand it could be seen as putting words in Mr Hs mouth, rather than allowing him to express 
the reasons he wanted to go against the advice using his own words. 
But, on the other hand, what the adviser wrote was not a generic template with general 
reasons for wanting to act against advice, which they simply asked Mr H to sign and return. 
What was contained in the example letter, in my view reflected what had been documented 
about Mr Hs views on things and what its recorded hed said were the reasons he wanted to 
transfer going back to the original advice paperwork of January 2017. Nothing written here 
appears contrary to what BFP had documented over the course of the advice process about 
Mr Hs views, objectives or reasons for wanting to transfer. And Mr H didnt just sign and 
return the typed letter BFP provided  Mr H did handwrite a letter and he made some 
alterations to what was provided.
So, while I accept there were some shortcomings in the process BFP employed in this case, 
I dont think this means Mr H didnt understand what he was doing or the risks involved with 
transferring. On balance, I think if things had happened as they should have, Mr H wouldve 
still gone ahead with the transfer of his DB scheme into a personal pension arrangement. 
I think Mr H appears to have had a plan and he was set on this course of action. From what 
Ive seen of the evidence presented, including the advice paperwork, the advisers file notes 
and Mr Hs decision to opt out of his DB scheme against advice, this all suggests to me that 
hed thought carefully about things and the benefits of transferring. I think BFPs advice not 
to transfer and the risks involved in doing so were clear and that Mr H reasonably 
understood them  I think he was able to make an informed decision.
I understand Mr H thinks differently. He says that many of the comments apparently 
contained within BFPs notes and referred to in the report were news to him  he doesnt 
recall these and completely refutes that some of the conversations ever took place. But I find 
it unlikely given the level and amount of detail recorded by the adviser about Mr Hs 
circumstances and what was discussed, both in the advice paperwork and in the handwritten 
file note, that this didnt reflect the conversations had at the time. 
Mr H also says he was told by the adviser that theyd have to suggest not to transfer given 
the regulators view of things, but would be happy to facilitate the transfer anyway. I accept 
this is possible. But Ive not seen enough to support what Mr H says happened. I accept it 
was BFP who likely introduced the insistent client process to Mr H. BFP says that it did this, 
but only with clients it genuinely believed were insistent, who understood the risks and only 
after theyd been through the advice process and considered the appropriate advice given to them. Ive not seen anything to suggest this was a normal part of its advice process or that 
from the outset and before it had begun its advice process, it set out how Mr H could put 
aside its advice and go ahead anyway. 
For the reasons above, while I accept there were shortcomings in BFPs process, I still think 
Mr H was an insistent client and that it wasnt unfair for BFP to have treated him as such. 
So I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, so there is nothing Baker 
Financial Planning LTD needs to do to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman