DRN-2899902
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
caused unreasonable delays in providing annuity quotes and then failed to honour the 
quotes theyd provided after Mr H submitted his acceptance.
What happened
Mr Hs complaint was made by his wife who acted as his representative in trying to arrange 
the annuity incomes that are the subject of this complaint. I will refer to his wife as Mrs H.
Mr H had two personal pensions with Royal London (policy numbers ending **43 and **70). 
And after reaching his stated retirement age, was looking at using the funds in these 
personal pensions to provide him with an income. Mrs H contacted Royal London on 
1 February 2019 to obtain annuity quotes for her husband. Mr H wanted to use both 
pensions to obtain annuities  an income for life. He didnt want to receive any pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS).
On 1 February 2019 Mrs H phoned Royal London asking for different annuity quotes than 
the standard quotes Mr H had been sent in advance of his selected retirement date of 
10 January 2019. Re-quotes were requested for policy **43 for a level annuity that included 
dependant cover at 50% and 100% for both five and ten year guarantee periods. For policy 
**70, quotes were requested for a level annuity with five and ten year guarantee periods.
On 1 March 2019 Mrs H phoned Royal London asking for an update regarding Mr Hs 
annuity quotes. Over the course of several phone calls that day, Mrs H was provided with 
certain quotes for policy **43. And further quotes were requested for annuities with differing 
benefits.
On 5 June 2019 Royal London sent Mr H an application pack for his pension policies. The 
quote for policy ending **70 explained that the guaranteed annuity offered by the policy was 
higher than could otherwise have been obtained from Royal Londons panel of providers. 
And that provided a pension income of £2,290 a year. That was based on a single life 
annuity, with no escalation and a guarantee period of ten years. The annuity quote for policy 
**43 was based on a 100% dependants pension, 3% annual escalation, and a ten year 
guarantee period. Again, the guarantee offered by this policy was higher than could have 
been obtained from the panel of providers used and gave an indicated income of £858 a 
year.
On 17 June 2019 Royal London wrote back to Mr H explaining that the annuity quotes 
provided had been based on an out of date fund value. They explained that Mr Hs estimated 
retirement date on his policy had been 10 January 2019. And the initial quotes had been 
based on the fund value at that time. So they would need to obtain updated figures. Which 
would take a further ten working days.
When those quotes were returned, the annuity quotes had reduced. Mrs H complained to 
Royal London, on behalf of Mr H, that the value of his annuity had dropped from the quotes 
they had accepted, and that the process had taken an unreasonable time. Mrs H wanted the 
original quotations theyd been given to be honoured.
Royal London responded to Mr Hs complaint and accepted responsibility for some of the 
delays in Mr Hs annuity policies being set up. In summary, they said: 
The annuity quote of £858 theyd provided for policy ending **43 was wrong. It was 
the quote for 0% escalation, not 3% escalation as stated. The figure for an escalating 
annuity should have been £551.
The annuity quote of £2,290 for policy ending **70 was based on the fund value at 
the start of the year because they were using the same fund value from Mr Hs 
original quotes for his selected retirement date of January 2019. When Mr Hs 
application was received the fund value was recalculated and found to have dropped. 
Meaning the annuity quote reduced to £2,236 a year.
Royal London had caused delays in getting the quotes for different options to Mr H. 
And if theyd done things quicker, they estimated that the application form could have 
been received back on 12 April 2019. But that would still have been after 1 April 2019 
by which time the fund value would have already dropped.
Royal London couldnt honour the earlier higher quotes as Mr Hs policies didnt have 
the funds to support those annuities. 
Royal London offered £750 compensation for the mistakes that theyd made and 
offered to pay 15 weeks worth of additional annuity payments for the delays theyd 
contributed to Mr H being able to take his annuity.
Mr H didnt accept Royal Londons explanation or offer of compensation so asked our 
service to look into what had happened. Our investigator considered the circumstances and 
thought that Royal London had contributed more delays than theyd identified. He thought 
that Mr Hs annuity application would have been received before 1 April 2019 when the fund 
bonuses changed. 
Royal London didnt agree. They still considered that the requests for new annuity quotes 
meant that even if theyd obtained the quotes quicker Mr H would still not have gotten his 
application to them before 1 April 2019. So they asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision to let both parties 
know my thoughts and give them the opportunity to reply.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Royal London have accepted responsibility for causing delays that meant Mr H wasnt able 
to access his annuities as early as he could have. And accept that they caused delays of 
15 weeks. This appears to be based on the fact that they calculated that they could have 
had Mr Hs application returned to them by 12 April 2019 rather than 17 June 2019 had 
mistakes not been made. Which is about nine weeks delay. Royal London also recognised 
that there was a subsequent delay from 2 July 2019 to 13 August 2019 after Mrs H 
complained about the drop in the annuity quotes. This was caused by the time it took for 
them to respond to Mrs H to explain that the original quotes would not be honoured. And this 
accounts for a further six weeks.
Ive considered what I think should have happened in this case based on the information that 
weve been provided. And I dont entirely agree with the outcome that Royal London 
reached.Ive listened to the call that weve been provided from 1 February 2019. That call indicates 
that Mr H was asking for quotes that included spouse benefit. Ive also seen the call notes 
for 1 February 2019. Those call notes suggest that quotes were required for policy **43 on 
the following basis: 100% joint life with five and ten year guarantee periods, and 50% joint 
life with five and ten year guarantee periods (all without a PCLS or escalation to the income). 
The same log indicates that quotes were required for policy **70 with five and ten year 
guarantee periods (without joint life benefit, PCLS or escalation).
I think that Royal Londons suggestion that the quotes should have been provided to Mr H by 
18 February 2019 is reasonable given the timescale of ten working days for quotes being 
provided. And I accept an appointment could then be made for 22 February 2019. What 
happened however was that Mrs H ended up phoning Royal London on 1 March 2019 as 
she hadnt received the quotes yet. And she was provided quotes on the phone. Mrs H was 
provided conflicting information because the first call handler gave her quotes for **70 when 
they in fact related to **43. This was clarified in a further call Mrs H made later that day, but 
she had been caused unnecessary confusion. The range of quotes she was given though 
had 50% and 100% joint life income, five and ten year guaranteed periods and all with 3% 
escalation. Which according to Royal Londons client notes for 1 February 2019 wasnt what 
was requested.
Mrs H had to speak to Royal London a number of times on 1 March 2019, and I believe that 
the confusion regarding the quotes was cleared up. But further annuity quotes were asked 
for. The call notes reflect that Mr H wanted quotes for policy **70 that had five and ten year 
guarantee periods  the same as were requested on 1 February 2019. And quotes for **43 
that had no joint life cover, but with five and ten year guaranteed periods. And the final client 
note for 1 March 2019 referred to a final call from Mrs H that recorded that she wants 3% 
escalation and level on all the requotes she requested earlier. Also wants the figures she 
was provided with earlier all on a level basis. So by the end of 1 March 2019 I think that 
Mrs H had requested all of the variations of annuity quotes that she was going to need. And 
as Royal Life have acknowledged, this should instead have happened by 22 February 2019.
Royal London have calculated that they could have provided the requotes by 
13 March 2019. And again, I think that would have been a reasonable timescale to get the 
new annuity quotes to Mr H. Royal London have stated that further annuity requests would 
have still been requested at that point. But I disagree. I can see that on 20 March 2019 Mrs 
H was again in contact with Royal London. And a request is logged for additional quotes 
without joint life cover, with five and ten year guarantee periods and both level and 3% 
escalating annuity payments. But, these quotes were clearly already requested on 
1 March 2019 according to Royal Londons notes. So wouldnt have delayed things. Ive 
seen nothing in the evidence Royal London have provided that causes me to think that by 
13 March 2019 Mr H shouldnt have had all of the quotes necessary for him to choose his 
annuity like he eventually did in June 2019.
So I dont agree that Royal Londons notional delay from 13 to 29 March for yet more quotes 
would have ever been required. Which is why I think that Royal London were wrong when 
they said the earliest that they would have received the applications back was 12 April 2019. 
Instead, I think that they should have had the completed applications back by 
27 March 2019. Which would have been ahead of 1 April 2019 when Royal London 
explained the bonuses for the funds were reduced. But for Royal Londons delays, Mr H 
should have had the quotes hed been provided honoured as the fund value would not have 
suffered the bonus losses that it subsequently did.
What actually happened though is that Mr H had to wait an unreasonable time to get the 
annuity quotes that hed requested. For the reasons Ive given, I think that Royal London were responsible for delays from 26 March 2019 until they say they received the application 
forms on 17 June 2019. 
Royal London also caused further delay after 17 June 2019 by failing to process the 
application and instead sending off for new annuity quotes. Theyve explained that this was 
necessary because the quotes that theyd provided were based on out of date fund values. 
But I dont think that is fair or reasonable. Mrs H didnt ask for annuity quotes based on out of 
date information. I expect she thought that the quotes Mr H was being given would be 
accurate as she was having to wait ten working days to get them.
Mrs H has shown us the quote that she was sent 5 June 2019 regarding the annuity quote 
for policy **43. On the first page it said this quotation is guaranteed until 16 June 2019. If we 
receive your application form by that date, the guarantee will be extended to 17 July 2019. It 
then said, this quotation is based on the information provided by you or on your behalf, and 
could be revised if any of this information is inaccurate. Whilst that turned out to be the 
case, it wouldnt have been if received by 26 March 2019 when it should have, as the fund 
value would have been largely the same. And in any case, was not a mistake of Mr Hs 
making. Any delay caused by Royal Londons failure to obtain quotes based on up to date 
information is a delay that theyre responsible for.
When the updated annuity quotes were provided, and had dropped in value, Mrs H 
complained on behalf of Mr H. They didnt think it was fair and werent prepared to accept 
the lower quotes at that time. That was on 2 July 2019 and Royal London have accepted 
responsibility for the delay in responding until 13 August 2019. And I agree thats fair. Given 
the delays to that point, Mr Hs reluctance to accept the reduced annuity without an 
explanation was understandable. 
So all told I think that Royal London are responsible for the fact that Mr H wasnt able to 
accept the earlier quotes by 27 March 2019 and wasnt then in a position to take his annuity 
until 13 August 2019. Which is a delay of 20 weeks rather than the 15 weeks Royal London 
suggested. After 13 August 2019 Ive seen that Royal London explained to Mr H that he 
could purchase his annuity, and it would not affect his right to bring his complaint to our 
service. Which I think was a reasonable explanation. Moreover, they suggested that they 
would not be responsible for delays beyond that point, if Mr H chose to delay taking his 
annuity for his complaint to be settled. Which I think is fair.
Finally, Ive considered the mistake that Royal London made in providing Mr H with his 
annuity quote for policy **43. He was quoted an annual income of £858 a year with a 100% 
dependants pension, a ten year guarantee period and 3% escalating income. But Royal 
London have explained that this was wrong. The figure that Mr H was given was for an 
annuity on a level basis. Theyve explained that the annuity for a 3% escalation would have 
instead been £551 a year. Where we identify that a mistake has been made, we aim to put 
the consumer into the position they would have been in had it not occurred. I cant ask Royal 
London to provide a higher annuity than Mr Hs fund would have actually provided on 
27 March 2019 if that mistake hadnt happened. Which is why I wont be asking Royal 
London to honour the figure mistakenly quoted for a 3% escalating annuity on policy **43.Responses to my provisional decision
Im grateful for the responses Ive received from Mr H and Royal London. Neither party have 
offered any further evidence for me to consider.
Mr H has asked that I reconsider what I said in my provisional decision about Royal London 
not being responsible for the fact that annuities werent taken after 13 August 2019. He 
explained that the reason he delayed accepting the annuities at that time was because of 
information in the key features documents from the annuity providers. They explained that 
there would be a 30 day cancellation period after which the payment options couldnt be 
changed.
Royal London accepted my provisional finding that they were responsible for 20 weeks delay 
and asked for clarification on what they were being asked to do to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence and the comments from Royal London and Mr H, my 
decision remains unchanged.
The confusion that Royal London caused in providing annuity quotes, and then the time 
taken to address Mr Hs complaint, caused Mr H a 20 week delay in being able to take his 
annuities. 
From August 2019 Mr H had Royal Londons final response on his complaint. I appreciate 
that Mr H was unhappy with that answer, but the final response explained that Mr H could 
take his annuity and still bring his complaint to us. Mr H could have mitigated his losses from 
that point by taking the annuity that was offered. We could then have dealt with the 
complaint to see if Royal London needed to do anything more to put things right. 
I understand that Mr H is unhappy with this outcome. But I think that Royal London made it 
as clear as they could that setting up the income after their explanation didnt mean that 
Mr H accepted their resolution or that our service couldnt still consider his complaint. 
Putting things right
I think that the compensation that Royal London had offered was broadly in line with what I 
would have been proposing. However, I believe they accounted for more delays than they 
explained, and crucially in this case, I think Mr Hs application would have been received in 
time to secure the annuity rate based on the fund values before the bonus change in 
April 2019.
For this reason Royal London should allow Mr H to take the annuity he accepted for policy 
**70, dated from the date he accepts my decision. 
Royal London should allow Mr H to decide which accurate annuity quote to choose for 
policy **43 from 27 March 2019 dated from the date he accepts my decision. 
Unless these annuity values are now lower than the current annuities that Mr H may be able 
to obtain, on identical basis, on these policies. In which case Mr H should be allowed to take 
the current annuity value dated from the date he accepts my decision.Mr H should be paid compensation of an additional 20 weeks annuity payments for both 
annuities to reflect the loss in potential income that I think that Royal London were 
responsible for. The annuity values for this purpose should reflect the impact on Mr H at the 
time. So Royal London should use the annuities available at 27 March 2017 that Mr H would 
have been in receipt of, but for their delays.
I think that Mr H was caused substantial trouble and upset as a result of the way Royal 
London handled this matter. He faced delays in getting quotes and needed to chase for 
updates when information wasnt forthcoming. And ultimately faced uncertainty over the 
fairness in the way he was being treated when he was refused the annuity hed accepted. So 
I agree that an additional award of £750 compensation for that trouble and upset is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding Mr Hs complaint against Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited.
I direct Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to compensate Mr H in the manner 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman