DRN-3740560
The complaint
Mr P complains about delays in processing a chargeback request through Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Halifax, its administered by Visa and they set 
the rules. Halifax didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for 
them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success. Here, a chargeback 
was eventually raised but Mr P complains about the way in which the business administered 
that chargeback.
Theres no dispute that there were unacceptable delays and errors when processing Mr Ps 
chargeback request. He raised the claim in May 2021 and wasnt credited until July 2021. 
Halifax also sought to take back the funds they had failed to return to Mr P. 
I can see that Mr P had to call them on many occasions to chase and clarify his refund and 
there were also extensive emails. Mr P also explained to Halifax that the lack of a refund had 
caused financial hardship, although he hasnt provided any further evidence of that. 
In those circumstances I think Halifax should compensate Mr P for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
Putting things right
Halifax offered to pay Mr P £100 and they paid £4 into his account which was the interest 
they calculated Mr P could have earned had he not been deprived of the refund. 
Our investigator didnt think that was enough and Id agree, but I think £200 is sufficient. 
The errors and delays would clearly have caused frustration and annoyance but once Halifax 
realised their mistake I can see they did offer compensation and consider the impact on Mr P 
of being deprived of the money for a few months. I dont think I have evidence of significant 
financial distress as Mr P hasnt provided that and the bank statements Ive been able to 
review show there was a positive balance on his account during the period he was deprived 
of his refund. I can see Mr P has called frequently and emailed regularly but given the 
relatively small amount involved Im not persuaded he necessarily needed to go to that 
amount of trouble. His complaint could have been escalated to this service if Halifax were 
unresponsive.
All told Halifax need to compensate Mr P for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced, and Im persuaded they should therefore pay him £200.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. They 
may deduct any payment they may have already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman