DRN-3921877
The complaint
The estate of Mrs D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited delayed paying her 
terminal illness claim.
The complaint has been brought by Mr D, the husband of Mrs D.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2010 Mrs D set up a life assurance policy with a firm that Aviva has since acquired liability 
for. It provided £140,000 of life cover over a 25-year term and included a terminal illness 
benefit. The policy explained it would pay if, on or before the cover end date, Mrs D was 
diagnosed as suffering from a terminal illness. And it defined a terminal illness as:
An advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness that, in the opinions of an 
attending Consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, means that the person covered 
is expected to die within 12 months and before the relevant cover end date.
Mrs D made a terminal illness claim in December 2017 after being diagnosed with metastatic 
endometrial carcinoma (cancer). Aviva requested medical information as part of their 
consideration of the claim but declined it as they said the terminal illness definition hadnt 
been met. This is because although Mrs D had been diagnosed as terminally ill, her treating 
consultant  Dr H  said median life expectancy was around two years but, could be longer 
with a good response to treatment. And so, Mrs Ds life expectancy was greater than 12 
months.
Mrs D complained about Avivas decision not to pay the claim and that they wanted further 
information from Dr H following her treatment. Avivas position didnt change and they sent a 
final response letter on 1 March 2018. In short, this said:
They noted Mrs Ds disappointment the claim couldnt yet be paid and apologised for 
any distress caused when they called to explain their decision (as that wasnt their 
intention). 
The medical information they received explained the planned treatment aimed to 
control the disease and hopefully extend life. Their chief medical officers opinion was 
Mrs Ds life expectancy was dependant on her response to this treatment, and that it 
was very likely she would live longer than 12 months.  
While they didnt dispute Mrs D had a terminal illness, her life expectancy wasnt less 
than 12 months and so she hadnt fully met the terminal illness policy definition. 
Theyd need to write to Dr H about Mrs Ds condition once her treatment had been 
completed  to see if her life expectancy was less than 12 months. And so, they 
asked Mrs D to inform them when her treatment was completed so they could write 
to Dr H. 
The letter explained that if Mrs D remained dissatisfied, she could refer the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman but she must do so within six months of the date of their letter.
On 25 September 2018, Aviva were contacted by Mrs Ds daughter asking for them to 
reconsider the claim as there had been a decline in Mrs Ds condition. Aviva received 
hospital discharge letters, dated 12 September 2018, from Mrs Ds daughter on 
4 October 2018. Aviva paid the claim on 23 October 2018, paying an additional £273.09 
interest to cover the period between the date of the discharge letters  the point in which 
they accepted the claim  and the payment date. 
After Mr D contacted the Financial Ombudsman in January 2021, on behalf of the estate, 
another complaint was made to Aviva about the delay in paying the terminal illness claim. 
Aviva sent a second final response, dated 27 October 2022, which in short, said:
This complaint was specifically about the delay in paying the claim between 
1 March 2018 (the date of their previous final response letter) to October 2018 (when 
the claim was paid).
They reviewed the letter sent to Mrs D on 1 March 2018 and, in this letter, they 
explained the medical evidence confirmed her prognosis was that she had more than 
12 months to live. For this reason, the claim couldnt be paid as the terminal illness 
benefit criteria hadnt been met. The letter however went on to say the claim could be 
reconsidered once Mrs Ds treatment was completed. And asked Mrs D to contact 
them at this point so they could write to Dr H for an update to allow them to review 
the claim.
The next communication they received was a phone call on 25 September 2018 from 
Mrs Ds daughter asking for the claim to be reviewed. A new claim form was sent and 
it was returned  along with the medical discharge letters  on 4 October 2018. 
Based on this new information it was clear there had been disease progression, 
despite treatment, and the claim was accepted on 22 October 2018. 
The claim was reviewed and paid within a month of being asked, and so it wasnt an 
unacceptable amount of time. 
The complaint was considered by the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator said:
He couldnt look at any delays in paying the claim prior to Avivas final response letter 
of 1 March 2018. This is because the complaint was referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman outside of the six-month time limit. He therefore only considered Avivas 
actions after 1 March 2018.
It took about four weeks for Aviva to consider the claim after being contacted by 
Mrs Ds daughter. And he didnt think this was an unreasonable amount of time. 
Because of this, he didnt think Aviva had to do anything further. 
Mr D disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. He remained 
dissatisfied that Aviva said they wouldnt pay the claim until they could see whether Mrs D 
had got better from the treatment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise it will have been a very difficult time for Mr D during his wifes ill-health and her 
passing. And so, I want to reassure Mr D that Ive given everything hes said careful 
consideration. But, from what Ive seen, I agree with our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why  please note that for ease of reference, Ill do so by separating my reasons between before and after 1 March 2018.
Pre 1 March 2018
The Financial Ombudsman is bound by certain rules that are set out by the financial industry 
regulator; the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These are known as the DISP Rules and 
are contained in the FCAs Handbook. DISP 2.8.2R says that we cannot look at a complaint 
if it is referred to us more than six months after the date the business sent their final 
response, unless the Ombudsman thinks the delay in referring the complaint to us was due 
to exceptional circumstances, or unless the business concerned consents.
Aviva sent a final response letter on 1 March 2018 explaining why the claim couldnt be paid 
at that time. Im satisfied this made it clear to Mrs D that she had six months from the date of 
the letter in which to refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman if she was unhappy  
thereby giving Mrs D until 1 September 2018 to do so. 
As it wasnt referred to us until January 2021, by Mr D on behalf of the estate, it has been 
made outside of the six-month time limit. And, as Aviva hasnt agreed to us considering this 
part of the complaint, Ive considered whether the delay in referring the complaint to our 
service was due to exceptional circumstances. 
Ive thought about Mrs Ds ill-health and that she was undergoing treatment during the six-
month referral period. While I appreciate Mrs D wouldve been impacted by the treatment, 
Im aware her daughter was able to contact Aviva on her behalf in September 2018 for her 
claim to be reconsidered. I therefore think its reasonable to assume that Mrs D couldve 
likewise asked her daughter, or another family member or friend, to assist her in referring the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman if she remained dissatisfied with Avivas response to 
her complaint. Because of this, and in the absence of anything to show otherwise, I dont 
think exceptional circumstances prevented Mrs D from referring this part of the complaint 
within the required time limit. 
I realise Mr D will be disappointed by this but, for the above reasons, Im unable to consider 
a complaint about delays in paying the claim before 1 March 2018. This includes Avivas 
decision that further medical evidence would be required following Mrs Ds planned 
treatment. 
1 March 2018 onwards
Avivas letter of 1 March 2018 explained that, should Mrs D want her claim to be 
reconsidered, they would require further medical evidence from Dr H following treatment. So, 
while it didnt seem to be in dispute Mrs D had a terminal illness (and so wouldnt get better), 
I think Aviva made it clear theyd need medical evidence to show her life expectancy had 
reduced to less than 12 months before the claim could be paid. 
Aviva didnt hear anything further until Mrs Ds daughter contacted them in late September 
2018. At which point, a new claim form was sent to Mrs Ds daughter. This was returned, 
along with the discharge letters, on 4 October 2018. It then took Aviva just under three 
weeks to consider this additional medical information before paying the claim.  I dont 
consider this to be an unreasonable amount of time. And so, it follows, that I dont think 
Aviva caused unnecessary delays in paying the claim from 1 March 2018 onwards. 
Im aware Mr D has also questioned the policys cancellation, as he was under the belief it 
would continue to provide cover for him after Mrs Ds terminal illness claim had been paid. 
Ive looked at the policy documents and Im satisfied that it only provided cover for Mrs D. And that it clearly explains that once a claim has been paid, cover would stop. I therefore 
dont think Aviva was wrong to cancel the policy after settling the claim. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr D is hoping for but I dont think Aviva has to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman