DRN-2342392
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) have provided 
since he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with RSA. His vehicle was involved in an accident that 
wasnt his fault on 3 November 2019. 
Mr M reported the incident to RSA. He initially told RSA he didnt want to make a claim. But 
he says that RSA later told him he could make a claim against the other party, so he agreed.
But RSA had inspected Mr Ms vehicle and deemed it was damaged beyond economical 
repair, so told him that they wouldnt be pursuing the claim. The vehicle was valued at £500, 
which was less than the £550 policy excess.
So in January 2020 Mr M complained to RSA about the lack of progress with his claim. And
because he felt RSA had given him conflicting information.
Mr M first contacted our service in February 2020. He wasnt only unhappy that RSA had 
given him conflicting information about his ability to make a claim. He was also unhappy that 
his new insurer was charging him more for his motor insurance. This was because RSA 
hadnt provided proof of his No Claim Discount (NCD). So this service contacted RSA. They 
confirmed theyd investigate both issues.
RSA issued their final response to the first complaint on 18 March 2020. They acknowledged 
that theyd failed to pursue the claim with the third party and confirmed that theyd follow this 
up. They offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. They provided Mr M 
with proof of his NCD on 19 March 2020.
But Mr Ms new insurer rejected the NCD proof provided. So Mr M followed up with RSA on 
15 April 2020. He received no response. So he confirmed that hed still like us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. While she agreed that the service hed received 
wasnt what wed expect, she felt that the £200 compensation RSA had offered was fair 
under the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree. He referred to an e-mail hed sent to our investigator in August 2020 
which confirmed hed had to pay an additional premium of £711.92 to his new motor insurer 
due to not being able to confirm his NCD. He said this had led to the cancellation of that 
policy. 
So Mr Ms complaint about his claim has come to me for a final decision.
RSA set up a separate complaint for the NCD issue and issued their final response letter on 
24 March 2021. They upheld that complaint in full. Ill cover that settlement in my findings. 
But this decision is purely about the claim complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to give context, Ill explain how RSA settled the NCD complaint.
The NCD error
RSA and Mr M have reached an amicable resolution to his complaint. I report it here for 
completeness.
RSA accepted that Mr M had requested proof of his NCD on 19 March 2020. But they 
incorrectly issued this with the end date excluded.
When they re-issued the proof of NCD it had Mr Ms NCD incorrectly recorded as 0 years, 
not the one year hed built up.
RSA accepted that this error caused Mr Ms insurance premium on his new policy to 
increase by £676.92. The new insurer also charged a £35 administration fee for the change. 
Mr M cancelled the policy on 10 August 2020 due to the increased cost. RSA noted that, 
including the administration fee, he paid an extra £470.83 due to the NCD error.
RSA apologised for the delay in providing the correct proof of NCD and for the implications 
this had caused. They issued a compensation payment of £500, as well as £470.83 to 
reimburse him for the additional costs of his new policy.
The accident claim
Mr M said that he was given misleading information during the claims process. Initially he 
told RSA he didnt want to make a claim after the accident on 3 November 2019.
But during a call on 14 November 2019 RSA explained that if he did make a claim, theyd 
follow up with the third party to gain an admission of liability. So the claim would be recorded 
as non-fault and Mr M would be paid out the value of his vehicle. 
But RSA didnt explain that if they werent able to get an admission of liability from the third 
party that the claim would be recorded as a fault claim, meaning Mr M would have to pay his 
excess. 
RSA tried to contact Mr M several times over the next few weeks before making contact 
again in January 2020. They explained that his car was valued at less than the policy 
excess. Itd been valued at £500. And the excess on the policy was £550.
Mr M called RSA on 20 January 2020 to discuss the valuation and to ask what would 
happen next. The first advisor he spoke to said RSA would raise a payment for the value of 
the car. Then they checked his policy excess and said that as the value was less than the 
excess theyd need to look into it as an admission of liability hadnt yet been confirmed.
In another call later that day, a different advisor explained that as the value was less than the 
excess there was no claim to be made. Although Mr M thinks that someone told him the 
policy excess would be waived, I havent seen any evidence of RSA saying this. But if the 
claim was settled as non-fault the excess wouldnt have been payable.I can see that Mr M was given unclear and conflicting information about his claim. And this 
mustve been frustrating and difficult to understand. RSA accept that he was given
conflicting information and theyve provided feedback to the advisors involved.
RSA have confirmed that theyre still pursuing the third party for an admission of liability. 
Theyre chasing this up on a monthly basis. And theyve now explained in full what the
outcome of the claim will be if they arent able to gain an admission of liability. This shouldve
been explained at the beginning of the claim.
RSA awarded £200 compensation for the poor communication Mr M had received. They also 
confirmed that their claims team would continue to attempt to make a recovery from the third 
party. But they explained to Mr M that they may not be successful.
Taking everything into account, I dont require RSA to do any more than theyve offered to 
do. I consider that the £200 compensation theyve offered is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. And theyve agreed to continue to make a recovery from the third party and 
to keep Mr M informed. So I cant ask them to do any more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman