DRN-2303865
The complaint
Ms H has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
made against her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Ms H had a minor bump with another car in a car park. She rang Advantage about it. She 
explained the accident circumstances, said it wasn't her fault, no one was injured and there 
was no damage to her car, so she didn't wish to make a claim.
Advantage later told Ms H that the other driver and her passenger had submitted personal 
injury claims against Ms Hs policy. It told Ms H it wanted to have a conversation with her 
about the claim. In a series of exchanges Ms H wanted to know why she had to have a 
conversation and couldn't answer questions in writing. She said she didn't wish to have to 
repeat herself by providing information shed already given. Advantage continued to press 
her for a conversation. Ms H said she felt Advantages actions were bullying and 
threatening. 
Ms H said she intended to complain. Advantage then explained in more detail why it needed 
to speak with her and Ms H was happy to have that conversation. But she remained 
concerned about what had happened before. 
Ms H brought her complaint about Advantages actions to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He didn't think Advantage needed to take any further action. Ms H didn't agree 
so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
It seems to me that Ms H was concerned that Advantage would be unnecessarily taking up 
her time, in a telephone conversation that might not be convenient, asking her to repeat 
information shed already provided. So she wanted some clarity as to what information 
Advantage wanted and why that needed to be over the phone.
Advantage did try and answer some of Ms Hs queries. For example it told her that it would 
need to seek information from Ms H over the phone as it would be quite detailed. It also 
explained that Ms H had said that no-one was injured in the accident, but if it didn't 
investigate the personal injury claims it could end up having to pay those. But Ms H wasnt 
happy with those explanations. I understand that Advantage could have gone into more 
detail here about why it would need to gather that information by phone, rather than, say, by 
email. But, the fact that it could have provided additional detail sooner doesn't mean it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
It might help if I explain that, potentially, the claim against Ms Hs policy could be decided in 
court. And if that was the case then Advantage would need as much detail as possible about 
how the accident happened in order to decide whether to defend it. And often information 
provided by a policyholder will lead to follow up questions. So its far easier and more 
efficient to ask a follow up question immediately as they arise. Thats something thats fairly 
easy to do in a conversation (whether in person or over the phone) but can be somewhat 
longwinded to achieve through an exchange of emails or other written correspondence. 
Further, insurers like Advantage have time limits for responding to personal injury claims. So 
they will want to do their information gathering in the most efficient manner possible, which in 
this case would be by having a conversation.
I would also point out that I wouldn't expect Advantage to tell Ms H in advance what 
information it wanted from her or the questions it was going to ask. Thats because its likely 
it would want to test Ms Hs memory of events and also her likely credibility as a witness if 
the case when to court. It wouldn't be able to do that if it told Ms H in advance what details it 
would require from her. 
I understand that Advantage did eventually explain to Ms Hs satisfaction why it needed to 
speak with her. And she thinks it should have taken the time to explain its position more 
clearly at an earlier stage. But, even without an explanation from it as to why this was 
necessary, I don't find Advantages request to have a phone conversation unreasonable. 
And Ms H could have put any questions she wished to have it answer to it during that 
conversation. So I don't think the fact that Advantage didn't provide all the detail Ms H 
wanted at an earlier stage means it handled the matter unfairly or unreasonably. 
Further, Ms H has said that Advantages emails were threatening and bullying. But having 
read those myself I don't agree that they were. They seem polite to me. I've noted that, in 
one email Advantage told Ms H that it might cancel her policy if she didn't cooperate with it. 
Ms H said that she didn't ever refuse to cooperate. I agree that Ms H didn't ever explicitly say 
she wouldn't cooperate or that she wouldn't speak with Advantage. But, initially at least, she 
appeared reluctant to speak with Advantage. And, in these circumstances, cooperation with 
Advantage included having a conversation. So I can understand that from Advantages 
perspective it appeared that Ms H didn't want to speak with it and it seemed she was 
refusing to cooperate, even if that wasn't her intention. Therefore, I don't think Advantage did 
anything wrong in referring to what could potentially happen if they didn't manage to have 
the required conversation. 
It follows that I think Advantage handled the matter reasonably and I'm not going to instruct it 
to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman