DRN-1496440
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs P complain about ERGO Reiseversicherung AGs (ERGO) decision to decline 
their travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were due to travel abroad for a holiday in April 2019. A few days before they 
were due to go, a terror-related incident occurred where they had planned to visit. 
Mr and Mrs P checked the Foreign and Commonwealth Offices (FCO) website which 
advised not to travel to the destination unless essential to do so. Mr and Mrs P also said they 
had checked other websites and found the same notice advising people not to travel to that 
destination unless essential. 
Because of this, Mr and Mrs P decided to cancel their holiday. They said they had 
purchased an upgraded travel insurance policy to protect them against such unforeseen 
circumstances. And they had also found other online articles about the incident which they 
said advised customers not to travel to the destination unless essential. They said the 
articles said they needed to contact their travel insurance providers, which they did.
Mr and Mrs P made a claim to ERGO but this was declined. ERGO referred Mr and Mrs P to 
the policy exclusions on page 101.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy about this. They said they had not received a copy of the policy, 
and in any event their claim should be covered because they followed the advice from the 
FCO not to travel. So they brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into everything and recommended the complaint should be upheld. 
She looked at the policy booklet and said she thought Mr and Mrs P would be covered in this 
situation. She said a term she had found on page 46 conflicted with the exclusion ERGO had 
relied on to decline the claim. So she said she thought the claim should be met. She also 
later contacted ERGO to explain that she also thought it should include 8% simple interest. 
Mr and Mrs P agreed with our investigator, but ERGO didnt. So the case has now been 
passed to me for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators view, for broadly similar reasons. I will now explain why. 
Mr and Mrs P were due to travel in April 2019 but had found out in the days leading up to 
their departure date that the FCO had advised not to travel unless essential. 
The advice not to travel was based on a terror-related incident that had occurred days prior 
to Mr and Mrs Ps departure date. Mr and Mrs Ps trip was not essential, and so they took 
the advice given by the FCO and cancelled their trip. ERGO declined the claim and pointed Mr and Mrs P to page 101 of the policy terms and 
conditions under general exclusions which say that war or warlike operations whether war is 
declared or not, terrorist action (except under Section 3: Personal accident), civil war, 
invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities, mutiny, uprising, rebellion, revolution, riot, 
insurrection, civil commotion, conspiracy, military or usurped power, martial law or state of 
siege, or if you have deliberately put yourself in danger. 
I appreciate the above term stipulates that Mr and Mrs Ps policy doesnt provide cover in the 
event a terrorist incident takes place. However, Mr and Mrs P acted on the advice given by 
the FCO not to travel unless essential. On balance Im more persuaded here that Mr and 
Mrs P would not have been covered whether they chose to travel or not. 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy also states that cover is provided by ERGO in the event the FCO 
declare that your destination is unsafe to visit and they advise against all or all but 
essential. This can be found on page 46 of the policy booklet. 
I understand the term on page 101 sets out exclusions that apply to the entire policy. But Im 
in agreement with our investigator that the term above found on page 46 would give Mr and 
Mrs P a reasonable expectation that their claim would be met. This is because they decided 
to cancel their trip based on advice given by the FCO  which in my view is an insured peril 
under the above cited term found on page 46.  
Given their destination was deemed unsafe to visit by the FCO; Im of the view that its fair 
and reasonable that their claim should be met in these circumstances.  I appreciate there is 
an exclusion that applies to the whole policy here. But the reason why Mr and Mrs P had to 
make a claim is because their destination was deemed unsafe by the FCO.
Mr and Mrs P followed the advice given by the FCO that was released on their website. I 
appreciate ERGOs argument that it cannot list each possible eventuality within the policy 
booklet. However, the term on page 46 is clear in my view that in the event a destination is 
deemed unsafe by the FCO, then a claim would be met. On balance I consider that Mr and 
Mrs P would have had the expectation that their claim would be met under their 
circumstances due to this. 
The policy Mr and Mrs P held at the time of making the claim appears to have left them in a 
situation whereby one exclusion conflicts with a policy benefit. Had Mr and Mrs P travelled, 
its likely they would not have benefitted from cover due to the advice from the FCO. In this 
case they decided not to travel based on that advice and are in a position where cover has 
been declined on that basis. Therefore, Im not in agreement with ERGO that it has acted 
fairly or reasonably by declining the claim. 
Mr and Mrs Ps destination was unsafe to visit, and they were advised not to travel unless 
essential to do so. They followed the advice from the FCO, and I think its fair and 
reasonable for their claim to be met  subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I require ERGO to meet Mr and Mrs Ps claim  subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy  and pay 8% simple interest to reflect the fact 
that Mr and Mrs P havent had use of the monies paid for their trip. 
My final decisionMy final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr 
and Mrs P's claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And include 
8% interest from the date Mr and Mrs P made payment, to the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to take off tax from this 
interest. ERGO Reiseversicherung AG must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman