DRN-3997676
The complaint
Ms C complains about the way Vitality Health Limited has handled claims she made under 
her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020, Ms C took out a private medical insurance policy through Vitality. The policy 
was underwritten on a moratorium basis. It also provided a cash benefit paid for treatment 
covered under the policy that is taken through the NHS.
During February and March 2021, Ms C registered three claims with Vitality for shoulder 
pain, abdominal pain and a gynaecological condition  for the last one Ms C had received 
treatment via the NHS. On all three claims, Vitality requested that Ms C and her GP 
complete claim information request forms (CIR). 
In relation to the claim for the shoulder, the CIR form was received but Vitality said it needed 
further medical information and so it requested Ms Cs consent to access her medical 
records (MR) about this condition. 
Ms C contacted Vitality to say that her GP was refusing to complete the CIR for the 
abdominal pain claim. Vitality reviewed previous claims history that it held for Ms C and 
found that she had received treatment for abdominal pain before. It therefore declined the 
claim, saying this was a pre-existing condition. 
The CIR form was received for the gynaecological condition and the claim was accepted. A 
private consultation was agreed which Ms C attended. Ms C said the private consultant 
suggested having a procedure completed in six months time. Vitality advised that it needed 
additional information in order to provide the NHS cash benefit for the treatment she had 
already received. 
Vitality said it didnt receive the consent for the MR regarding the claim for the shoulder. So, 
in October 2021, it asked for consent to access her MR for all of the conditions that were 
being claimed. This meant that Ms Cs claims were all put on hold while this was being 
obtained. 
When consent was received in November 2021, Vitality requested the MR, which were 
received in December 2021. At this point Vitality agreed it would pay the NHS cash benefit 
for the gynaecological claim while it continued to assess her remaining claims.
By April 2022, as her claims hadnt been settled, Ms C decided to stop her premium 
payments. As a result, the policy was cancelled. Vitality continued to investigate the claims 
and decided to void the policy  which meant it would no longer consider any claims. Vitality 
said that some of the claims related to pre-existing conditions and that Ms C had 
misrepresented her history. It referred to The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and said it was entitled to void the policy as a result of 
this Act.
Ms C made a complaint and brought the matter to this service. She said she was unhappy:
with the way her gynaecological claim had been handled as it meant she had to see 
three different consultants. And that Vitality had referred her to the oncology team 
when her condition wasnt cancerous. 
that Vitality had declined her claim for abdominal pain when this wasnt related to a 
pre-existing condition. 
with Vitalitys customer service and that it had referred to her being in the medical 
profession in its correspondence which she found threatening.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that 
Vitality was being reasonable when voiding the policy as a result of CIDRA, but he did say 
that it was reasonable for it to void the policy under other terms within the policy relating to 
providing correct information when making a claim. 
He also found that there was evidence Ms C had previously had treatment for the shoulder 
pain and also abdominal pain which meant that these claims wouldnt be covered. And in 
relation to the delays in handling the claim for the gynaecological issue he found that it was 
reasonable for Vitality to ask for medical information to enable it to consider the claims and 
that the majority of delays related to the requests for information. He noted comments which 
said Ms C had decided to receive NHS treatment rather than continuing with private care. 
So, he didnt think it was Vitalitys fault she had seen different specialists for this condition. 
Our investigator found that Ms C had been incorrectly referred to the oncology team 
regarding her gynaecological problem. Vitality had noted the error, but it had decided to 
continue having a care consultant from the team to oversee the claim. As this was a 
condition which could lead to cancer, he didnt think this was unreasonable.
In relation to Vitality referring to her profession, he said that it was mentioned as a reminder 
that Ms C was a medical professional and therefore should have been aware of what to 
declare as pre-existing conditions. So, he didnt think it was unfair for Vitality to have put this 
in the letter.
Ms C disagreed with the investigators opinion. She said she only returned to using NHS 
treatment due to the poor handling of the gynaecological claim by Vitality. And she 
maintained that the mention of her medical knowledge by Vitality related to her 
gynaecological claim, not any pre-existing conditions. So, she still didnt think it was fair.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Ms C. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Cs complaint.Cancellation and voidance of the policy
Vitality initially cancelled the policy as Ms C stopped paying her premiums in April 2022. I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Vitality to do this as Ms C was no longer paying the 
premium to cover her for any new claims. But Vitality did continue to investigate her existing 
claims following which they decided to void the policy. 
The policy was voided because Vitality said Ms C attempted to make claims for pre-existing 
conditions and misrepresented her symptoms and condition history to try to secure cover 
under the plan. It says that, under the rules of CIDRA, it has the right to void the policy.
 
The rules under CIDRA are very clear about when an insurer can take action. The rules say 
that, if a misrepresentation has occurred but that the insurer would have entered into the 
contract on the same terms anyway, then this misrepresentation doesnt qualify. Ms C took 
out her private medical insurance policy on a moratorium basis, which means she wouldnt 
be covered for any conditions she had received treatment for in the past five years. This 
means she didnt have to answer any health questions at the time of applying for the cover. 
Vitality has confirmed that it would have provided her with the same policy, even if it had 
been made aware of her full medical history. As Vitality has confirmed it would have still 
provided Ms C with a policy, any misrepresentation it feels she has made, doesnt qualify  
meaning Vitality cannot avoid the policy for that reason. So, Im not satisfied that Vitality 
acted fairly.  
However, in the letter Vitality sent to Ms C in September 2022, it also referred to the 
following part of the policy:
4.4 DISHONESTY/FRAUD
We believe our customers are honest, and the contract between us is based on 
mutual trust. Representations including statements and information provided by you 
or any insured dependants are relied on in assessing the terms of cover. In the event 
that any of the information provided by you or any insured dependant is wrong or 
incomplete we may have the right to cancel cover with effect from inception and/or to 
decline claims made under this plan.
If any claim is in any respect dishonest or fraudulent or if any dishonest or fraudulent 
means or devices are used by you, any member of your household or anyone acting 
on your or their behalf to obtain benefit under your plan (including any benefits under 
the Healthy Living Programme), then all benefits under your plan may be lost and 
you may have to return to us any payments already made as a result of any 
dishonest or fraudulent actions.
For Vitality to be able to rely on this part of the policy wording to cancel the policy, it would 
need to show that it was provided with incorrect or incomplete information by Ms C in order 
to obtain benefit under the policy. Vitality has said that Ms C has attempted to make claims 
for conditions that she had suffered from prior to taking out the policy  which would 
therefore be excluded - and that information regarding her medical history wasnt provided to 
enable them to fully investigate the claims. 
So, I will now need to consider if I think any of the claims made were known to be 
pre-existing but were submitted to Vitality in any event.
Claim for shoulder painWhen the claim was made in early 2021, Ms C completed a form regarding her previous 
medical history. On this form it asks a question about the history of the condition:
Have you ever suffered from episodes of this condition before, even if medical 
advice wasnt sought at the time?
Next to this question there are two boxes with either Yes or No next to them. There is a 
tick in the box next to the No. So, Im satisfied Ms C completed the form to say she had not 
suffered from previous episodes of neck and shoulder pain prior to the claimed event.
Vitality has provided evidence to show that Ms C sought medical attention in 2019. The letter 
from the consultant states that she presented with several years worth of worsening pain in 
her left scapula. And it has referred to history it has from a previous policy held for Ms C and 
noted that a claim was made for shoulder pain in 2017. Vitality has said that it did request 
the MR from the treatment provider, but that Ms C didnt provide her consent for these to be 
released. 
Ive thought about this very carefully. I do appreciate that there are occasions where 
someone may not remember a particular episode of treatment and may fail to disclose at the 
point of claim all of their history. However, Ms C has had a historic problem with her shoulder 
which appears to have been known about for at least four years before she made this claim. 
And the issue was ongoing as Vitality has provided evidence to show treatment took place in 
2019 for shoulder pain. I therefore think it is more likely that Ms C would have been aware 
that she had a previous history of shoulder pain when making the claim. However, she didnt 
disclose this. I also note that she refused Vitality access to the MR for one of the providers. 
Ms C has said this was because she was frustrated with the ongoing investigations and that 
she didnt see it was necessary. While I can appreciate she was frustrated with how long it 
was taking to assess the claims, insurers must be able to investigate claims fully and so I 
dont think it is unreasonable for Vitality to have wanted to see the details of this treatment 
and specifically, the medical records.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that, based on the evidence provided, that it was 
reasonable for Vitality to cancel the cover using the dishonesty/fraud condition under the 
policy.
Claim for abdominal pain
Ms C completed an online claim form for abdominal pain in early 2021. On the form she 
stated that the symptoms started in December 2020 and that she hadnt suffered from these 
symptoms or anything like this before. Vitality requested a form be completed by her GP, but 
Ms C said her GP was unwilling to complete the document and so her referral letter and 
other medical records were provided instead.
The referral letter stated that Ms C has a history of the symptoms that she was presenting 
with. When Vitality was able to review her MR, it noted that there was an entry regarding 
abdominal pain in early July 2020 and an ultrasound of the area was completed the day 
before the policy was taken out. Her GP notes also show she discussed a referral to a 
gastroenterologist for these symptoms a few days after the policy had been incepted. 
Based on this information, Vitality declined Ms Cs claim, saying it related to pre-existing 
symptoms. I dont think this was unreasonable as there does appear to be several previous 
instances where abdominal pain has been detailed. It is important to note that this doesnt 
appear to have been mentioned by Ms C when making the claim. Ms C has subsequently 
said that this claim was declined incorrectly, and that it related to a further claim she made for abdominal pain which was gynaecological in nature. I appreciate Ms Cs point, but I 
havent seen any medical reports to show that the claim made was unrelated to any previous 
symptoms she has had for abdominal pain. Therefore, based on the evidence available, Im 
satisfied that Vitality has acted fairly when declining the claim as being related to a 
pre-existing condition.
Claim for gynaecological problem
Ms C has said she is unhappy with the delays in resolving this claim which led to her having 
to change consultants three times. She said that due to the nature of the condition, this 
meant she had to be examined by different specialists. She is also unhappy that she was 
referred to an oncology team when she didnt have cancer. Vitality has said that it needed 
medical evidence in order to process her claim and that this is what caused the delays. And 
it has acknowledged that the referral to the oncology team was an error, based on her 
diagnosis.
The claim made was for the cash benefit as Ms C had seen a consultant and undergone a 
procedure through the NHS. The policy includes a benefit for treatment received via the NHS 
that would have been covered by the policy. Ms C said she wanted a private referral and so 
approval was given for Ms C to see a private consultant and continue her treatment on that 
basis. 
I can see that the case was referred to Vitalitys oncology team, who deal with patients that 
have been given a cancer diagnosis. But Ms Cs condition wasnt cancerous. I can 
appreciate why this may have caused upset to Ms C. Vitality has confirmed that this was an 
error but, as a result of the type of condition Ms C had, it continued using the oncology team 
to oversee her treatment. I dont think that was unreasonable, considering the medical 
condition. 
Vitality has said that it needed medical evidence before it could agree Ms Cs claim and that 
it asked for discharge summaries following the NHS procedure. Ms C stated that such 
documentation wasnt available, and Vitality agreed to pay the cash benefit on that occasion. 
From the information Ive seen, it does appear that Vitality made it clear that such medical 
evidence would be needed for any future claims. So, when claims were made for other 
procedures later, I think Ms C would have been aware that she needed to provide the 
relevant evidence in support of her claim.  
Having looked at Vitalitys notes, I can see that, following her private consultation, Ms C 
made contact to say that she had been advised to have a repeat procedure in six months 
time. However, Ms C said she had also received contact for the procedure through the NHS 
and so she was thinking of continuing with NHS treatment and claiming the cash benefit. I 
havent seen anything to show that this was as a result of any delays as it seems the 
procedure was completed after the six months as recommended by the specialist.
 
Im aware that, as Vitality hadnt received the access to MR for one of the claims and further 
claims were being made, it requested access to the records for all of the conditions being 
claimed. This request meant that all claims were placed on hold which did impact the 
progress of this case. I understand this was frustrating for Ms C, but Vitality is entitled to 
investigate the claim and so I dont think it was unreasonable for it to request further 
information. I can see that, after receiving the MR, Vitality did make a payment for the 
outstanding cash benefit for the procedure undertaken. 
General Medical Council (GMC) registrationIn the letter to Ms C declining the claims and voiding the policy, Vitality referred to Ms Cs 
GMC registration. Ms C says she found this threatening and saw no reason for this to be 
mentioned. Vitality said this was to show that she is not a layperson and therefore would 
have been more aware of the information that would be relevant in respect of her medical 
conditions and pre-existing symptoms. Im persuaded that someone who is from a medical 
profession is more likely to understand the need to fully declare any previous history of a 
condition, so I dont think that it was unreasonable for Vitality to put this in its letter.
Ive noted that Ms C has said that this point was raised in relation to knowledge surrounding 
her gynaecological condition, not pre-existing conditions. However, Im not persuaded this is 
the case. The letter refers to this point under a comment relating to not providing all the 
relevant symptom history  I havent seen anything where it refers specifically to the 
gynaecological condition. 
Overall, Im persuaded that it was reasonable for Vitality to have made the point regarding 
Ms Cs understanding of what would be required when making a claim. 
Conclusion
I do appreciate that Ms C has had a number of conditions for which she has had to seek 
treatment and that this whole process has not been easy for her. However, Im satisfied that 
she would have been aware of the need to be open about her previous medical history in 
relation to some of these conditions. When Ms C completed the forms for her shoulder and 
abdominal pain claims the information provided hasnt matched the history detailed in the 
MR. And it appears there were delays in providing her consent to access her MR. In 
addition, Ms C refused consent for Vitality to contact one treatment provider. Taking all of 
this into account, while I dont think it was fair for Vitality to use CIDRA as the basis for 
voiding the policy, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Vitality to rely on the 
quoted policy term when cancelling the cover.
And while there were delays in processing Ms Cs gynaecological claim, this was impacted 
by the delay in obtaining access to her medical records on her other claims. As Vitality had 
concerns relating to the non-disclosure of pre-existing conditions on other claims, I dont 
think it was unfair that they requested these details for all of the cases. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman