DRN-2421718
The complaint
Mr K complains about three loans that he took out with Evergreen Finance Limited, trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk, (EFL), which he said were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr K was given three instalment loans by EFL from December 2018 to July 2019. Only 
Loans 1 and 2 have been repaid.
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr K is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of monthly 
repayments 
1. 10/12/18 27/3/19 £400 4
2. 1/4/19 26/7/19 £200 4
3. 30/7/19 Unpaid £400 6
Mr K said that EFL had lent him the loans when he was in financial difficulties. He said that 
he had large debts with many creditors and had entered into a debt management plan.
In its final response letter, EFL said that it asked Mr K for details of his income and 
expenditure. It said that all the figures Mr K provided showed sufficient disposable income to 
repay the loan instalments. EFL also performed a credit check through a credit reference 
agency. The results of this credit check helped to satisfy it that Mr K would be able to 
sustainably meet the repayments due on the loans hed requested. It was satisfied that it had 
assessed affordability in a correct and proportionate manner. EFL couldnt say that it had 
acted irresponsibly with the checks it performed for these loans.
The adjudicator issued two views. In his first view he didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. But he said that EFLs credit check before Loan 3 showed that Mr K had a
number of outstanding finance accounts active at the time of Loan 3 and that a significant
number of accounts (15) had been opened in the preceding six months. Based on these
factors he thought EFL needed to undertake full verification of the information being provided 
to it. But he couldnt see that Mr K had provided this Service with bank statements from the 
time of Loan 3. So, as the adjudicator hadnt been provided with evidence from the time to 
build up a picture of Mr Ks actual circumstances, he couldnt say EFL was wrong to provide 
Loan 3 to Mr K.
Mr K then sent this Service his bank statements from around the time of Loan 3. 
The adjudicator, in his second view, said that if EFL had undertaken the checks he thought 
were necessary, these wouldve alerted it to the possibility that Mr K might have been having 
problems managing his money. In the circumstances, it was unlikely he wouldve been able 
to sustainably repay Loan 3. So, the adjudicator recommended that Mr Ks complaint about 
Loan 3 should be upheld.
I cant see that EFL has provided a response to either of the adjudicators views.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When EFL lent to Mr K the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
CONC said that a lender needed to check that a consumer could afford to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant a consumer being able to meet his 
repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks EFL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr K would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
EFL made a number of checks before it lent to Mr K. It asked him for details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. Mr K declared his monthly income as between £1,800 and £2,010 
and his expenditure as between £1,113 and £1,125. 
EFL also said that it had checked Mr Ks credit file before agreeing to the loans. It has 
provided its detailed credit checks before each loan and I shall refer to these below.
Weve also received a credit report from Mr K. I can see that this includes information about 
a large number of loans, and I shall refer to these below.Loans 1 and 2 were for £400 and £200 respectively and were each repayable by four 
monthly repayments. The monthly repayments on Loan 1 were £145.74 and on Loan 2 the 
highest monthly repayment was £76.48. 
Ive thought about whether EFLs checks were proportionate for Loans 1 and 2. I can see 
that the information Mr K gave EFL about his income and expenses indicated that the loan 
repayments were affordable.  And I dont think the repayment amounts on Loans 1 and 2 
were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr K financial difficulty.
Ive also seen EFLs credit checks before Loans 1 and 2. I can see that these didnt show 
any other payday loans. I can also see that Mr Ks other loan repayments amounted to 
around the amounts Mr K had declared to EFL. So, I dont think these checks were likely to 
have caused EFL any serious concerns. 
Overall, I think that the checks EFL carried out before agreeing Loans 1 and 2 were 
proportionate. And given Mr Ks relatively modest repayment amounts and repayment 
history, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for EFL to ask him for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable. So, I dont think 
EFL was wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to Mr K. 
Loan 3 was Mr Ks third loan in around seven months. Hed been borrowing from EFL for 
most of that time with only about a nine day gap. There was only a four day gap between the 
repayment of Loan 2 and Mr K taking out Loan 3. The loan was for £400 (double his 
previous loan amount) to be repaid by six monthly repayments. This was a longer period 
than his previous loans. I can see that EFL had increased Mr Ks declared expenses by 
£81.40 so its likely it may have had concerns about the accuracy of these. And whilst it 
seems on the face of it that the repayments for Loan 3 would have looked relatively modest 
compared to Mr Ks declared disposable income, I think EFL also ought to have queried why 
someone with a relatively large declared disposable income would be needing to borrow 
more expensive credit. 
Ive also carefully reviewed EFLs credit checks. I can see that Mr Ks overall total credit 
balance had increased by around £3,200 since Loan 2 four months earlier. And he now had 
19 active accounts of which 15 had been opened in the previous six months. Ive seen that 
Mr K had one loan described as an advance against income (a payday loan) and nine other 
loans described as unsecured loans of which five appear likely to be short term loans. I can 
also see that Mr K had three credit card balances very near their respective credit limits. I 
note that Mr K had declared monthly credit repayments of £200 before Loan 3. But the loan 
repayment amounts alone in EFLs credit checks totalled around £928, which was 
substantially more than hed declared. Overall, I think that EFLs credit checks ought to have 
suggested that it was likely Mr K was having difficulties managing his finances. 
So altogether, I think EFL ought to have looked into Mr Ks financial situation in more detail 
before lending to him on this occasion. I cant see that it did this.
Ive carefully looked at Mr Ks credit report and bank statements for the month before Loan 3 
to see what better checks would have shown EFL. I can see that Mr K was earning around 
£200 less than hed declared. With regard to other borrowing, in the two months prior to 
Loan 3, I can see that Mr K had taken out at least six short term loans totalling almost 
£1,750 which would all have been repayable around the same time as Loan 3. Mr K also had 
three high cost credit loans as well as several credit cards. I think the extent and nature of 
Mr Ks other borrowing would likely have suggested that Mr K was having significant 
difficulties managing his money if EFL had made better checks. And I think these difficulties 
would likely have suggested that there was a real risk that Mr K wasnt going to be able to 
sustainably repay Loan 3 and the potential difficulties or adverse consequences for him. As a responsible lender, I dont think EFL should have given Loan 3 to Mr K. So, Im upholding 
Mr Ks complaint about that loan and EFL should put things right as shown below.  
In deciding what redress EFL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr K from Loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce EFLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
putting things right  what EFL needs to do
If EFL has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 3 to a third party, EFL should buy this back if 
it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If EFL isnt able to buy the debt back, 
then it should liaise with the debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
1.Loan 3 hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mr K back into the position he 
would have been had this loan not been agreed for him, EFL needs to ensure 
that Mr K only repays the principal borrowed on this loan. In other words, he 
should not pay any interest or charges for this loan. So, EFL should remove all 
interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 3, and treat any payments made by  
Mr K towards this loan as payments towards the original capital borrowed. If there 
is still an outstanding capital balance on Loan 3 (and if this loan isnt included 
within Mr Ks existing debt management plan), then EFL should try to agree a 
mutually acceptable and affordable repayment plan with Mr K bearing in mind the 
need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions if he is still 
experiencing financial difficulties.
2.If reworking Mr Ks account on Loan 3 as Ive directed results in Mr K effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed on Loan K, then EFL 
should add 8% simple interest* to these overpayments calculated from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. The overpayment 
and interest should then be paid to Mr K. 3. EFL should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in  
relation to Loan 3.
 *HMRC requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. If Mr K asks EFL for a certificate 
showing how much tax EFL has taken off, it should provide this. If EFL intends to use the 
refunds to reduce an amount Mr K owes, it must do this after tax.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Evergreen Finance Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, to put things 
right by taking the steps set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman