DRN-2824938
The complaint
This is a complaint that NRAM Limited mis-sold Mrs and Mr S payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with mortgages in 1992 and 
2000. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI policies took place about 20 and 30 years ago and, not surprisingly, not 
all the original documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone 
to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mrs and Mr S have said that they were pressurised into taking PPI in order to get their loans, 
and this was done by staff incentivised by commission payments.
In assessing this case, Ive looked at whether there is enough evidence for me to say fairly 
that NRAM did put unfair pressure on Mrs and Mr S  or otherwise whether there is evidence 
to say the PPI was mis-sold in some other way. 
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that unfair pressure was put on Mrs and Mr S 
unless there is reasonable supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, 
where someone has said another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there 
needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make 
someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time 
ago. 
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no 
real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say NRAM did something wrong unless 
I had stronger evidence of this. 
In the documents I think its likely that the PPI was set out as a choice (although I accept that 
that NRAM could still have put unfair pressure on Mrs and Mr S). The 1992 application form 
required the applicant to tick to apply for PPI, and this is what happened on Mrs and Mr Ss 
form. And the document that was probably used in 2000 also set out the PPI as a choice, in 
a similar way (the actual original document filled in by Mrs and Mr S isnt now available). 
So I dont have strong enough evidence to fairly say Mrs and Mr S werent given a proper 
choice. 
NRAM didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr S as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs and Mr S to decide whether it was suitable for their needs and 
worth the cost  or whether they wanted to have no PPI or to shop elsewhere.  
But even if NRAM had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in Mrs and Mr Ss circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay 
a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mr S (the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it 
would have put off the time when Mrs and Mr S would need to fall back on any savings or 
other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put Mrs and Mr S in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due 
to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they 
couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well NRAM explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs and Mr S took the PPI. I say this because, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My overall conclusion is that there isnt enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman