DRN-3956163
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about AXA Insurance UK Plc and the decision to decline the claim 
they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M held a home insurance policy, underwritten by AXA. In July 2022, Mrs M 
and Mr M made a claim on this policy, as they noticed there was cracking and movement in 
the tile of their shower room.
AXA instructed an independent surveyor, who Ill refer to as B, to inspect the damage in 
Mrs M and Mr Ms home. This inspection took place on 11 July, with B compiling their report 
on the same day. Within this report, B recommended that the claim be declined as they felt 
the damage had been occurring over an extended period and so, Mrs M and Mr M had failed 
to mitigate it. AXA followed this recommendation and Mrs M and Mr M were unhappy about 
this. So, they raised a complaint.
Mrs M and Mr M didnt think the decline of their claim was fair, as they felt the main cause of 
the damage was a leak to the toilet cistern which they were unable to reasonably see. So, 
they didnt agree that they couldve done more to mitigate the damage and because of this, 
they felt the claim should be accepted.
AXA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had acted fairly, and 
in line with the terms of the policy Mrs M and Mr M held, when declining the claim. They 
were satisfied that the damage was likely caused over an extended period of time and 
because of this, they thought they were reasonable to rely on the recommendation of B. So, 
they didnt think they needed to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint. But AXA 
did raise a cheque for £25 to recognise a delay in their response to Mrs M and Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Mrs M and Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so they referred their complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought AXA had acted 
fairly when declining the claim, relying on the report compiled by B. So, they didnt think AXA 
needed to do anything more on this occasion.
Mrs M and Mr M didnt agree. They accepted they were aware of the cracking tiles within the 
affected room but explained they thought this was likely caused by the underfloor heating. 
They maintained their view that they werent reasonably aware of a leak in the cistern and 
so, they thought AXA should cover the repair costs for the damage this escape of water 
caused. As Mrs M and Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs M and Mr M. I dont 
dispute there is damage to their floor, which is likely to cost a significant amount to repair. 
And I appreciate Mrs M and Mr M took out a home insurance policy assuming it would help 
assist them in these sorts of situations. So, when Mrs M and Mr M were made aware that 
their claim was being declined, I can understand the upset and confusion they wouldve felt. 
And I can appreciate why they would feel as though they had been unfairly treated.
But for me to say AXA should overturn their initial decision and accept the claim, I first need 
to be satisfied AXA have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that AXA failed 
to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs M and Mr M held when they declined 
the claim. Or, if I think AXA did act within these, that they acted unfairly in some other way. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I want to make it clear exactly what Ive been 
able to consider. I note AXA have paid Mrs M and Mr M £25 for a delay in their complaint 
handling process. Im unable to comment on the fairness of this offer, as it relates to AXAs 
complaint handling, which is an unregulated activity and so, outside of our services 
jurisdiction. I have instead focused on the main area of dispute, which centres around the 
claim declinature.
And I think it would be useful to explain how Ive considered the complaint. It is not my role 
to re-underwrite the claim as I dont have the expertise to do so. My role is to focus solely on 
the actions taken by AXA and to decide whether I think these actions were both fair and 
reasonable.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs M and Mr M held. Within this, it states 
clearly that Mrs M and Mr M must maintain your property in a good state of repair as well 
as take all reasonable precautions to avoid injury, loss or damage and take all reasonable 
steps to safeguard all the property insured from loss or damage.
The terms and conditions go onto explain within the General Exclusions section under the 
heading Gradual deterioration/maintenance that AXA will not pay for Any loss or damage 
caused by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or 
wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your 
buildings and its contents.
So, I think the terms and conditions of the policy make it reasonably clear that Mrs M and Mr 
M had a responsibility to ensure the property was well maintained and to mitigate any 
damage where reasonable. And, that any damage caused by gradual deterioration and wear 
and tear would not be covered.
In this situation, B inspected the property and took the view that it was likely the damage had 
been caused over an extended period. And that, considering the dirt and debris within the 
visible cracks, that the cracks had also been visible for an extended period. B also disputed 
whether the sole cause of the damage was due to the cracked cistern and referred to failed 
mastic and grouting on the tiles in the shower area. 
So, I think its clear B felt Mrs M and Mr M had failed to maintain the area in question to a good state of repair. And I think its clear B felt the damage in the room, specifically the 
cracks to the tiles, had been visible for some time with no evidence to suggest any work had 
been undertaken to fix them or understand why they had cracked in the first place.
Mrs M and Mr M have confirmed this themselves, accepting the cracks had been visible but 
they had assumed this had resulted from an issue with the underfloor heating. And they 
stated clearly, they had not attempted to complete any previous repairs.
As B are the qualified industry experts, I think AXA have acted fairly when relying on the 
opinion B has provided. And I think its clear Bs opinion is that the damage occurred over a 
period of time and that Mrs M and Mr M shouldve reasonably known damage was occurring 
and took steps to mitigate this. As Mrs M and Mr M are unable to show that they did, I think 
AXA have acted within the terms and conditions when declining the claim, based on Bs 
opinion that the damage was gradual and that no mitigation had taken place.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether AXA have acted unfairly in 
some other way. I note Mrs M and Mr M dispute their ability to have known about the 
damage, as they felt the damage was caused by a leak that wasnt visible without looking at 
the toilet cistern which wasnt reasonable to expect.
I dont dispute Mrs M and Mr M werent aware of a leak coming from the toilet cistern. But I 
do think they were reasonably aware there was significant cracking to their floor tiles as this 
has been accepted. While I recognise Mrs M and Mr Ms assumption this was due to an 
issue with their underfloor heating, I wouldve expected Mrs M and Mr M to have made 
reasonable effort to understand what was causing this damage as they had a responsibility 
under the terms of the policy to maintain the property in a good state of repair. If Mrs M and 
Mr M had, I think its likely they may have found the leak in the cistern sooner, and this 
wouldve mitigated the damage to the floor and the eventual subsidence.
I also note that alongside the leak to the cistern, Bs report highlighted issues with the mastic 
and grouting within the shower. And I wouldve expected these issues to be reasonably 
visible. 
Because of the above, I dont think I can say AXA have acted unfairly when relying on Bs 
report and taking the view that Mrs M and Mr M failed to mitigate the damage caused to their 
property. So, I dont think I can say they were unfair, or unreasonable, when declining Mrs M 
and Mr Ms claim. And because of this, I dont think AXA need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint about AXA 
Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman