DRN-3542977
The complaint
Mr E complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Service Limited (MBFS) applied charges 
unfairly when his hire purchase agreement (HPA) came to an end. 
What happened
Mr E acquired this car in May 2018. It was about four months old with less than 2,000 miles 
on the clock at the point of supply and cost around £10,000. When the agreement came to 
an end, in May 2021, MBFS inspected the car and sent Mr E an invoice for over £3,500 - 
made up of nearly £200 for a missing service history, around £2,500 for damage and about 
£800 for excess mileage. Mr E felt some charges were unfair and complained to MBFS. 
MBFS says the car was inspected twice shortly after return, damage was noted at both 
inspections and the first report explained that charges would be advised later - as the car 
would be subject to a second inspection. MBFS considers charges were properly applied in 
line with its vehicle return standard (VRS). It says Mr E was provided with the VRS (and a 
pricing matrix for estimated repair costs) at the start of the HPA. And he was reminded of his 
obligations before the agreement ended - in a pack that also explained he could fix any 
damage before collection, if he wanted. 
MBFS offered to reduce the charges by 10%, as a goodwill gesture, but Mr E didnt think that 
was fair. He was disappointed the agent didnt identify all of the damage or cost the repairs 
when the car was collected. He said he was deprived of the chance to check the pricing 
matrix and decide whether to keep the car because the first inspection recorded less 
damage than the second. And, if hed known how much hed be charged, he could have paid 
the final settlement figure - as theres only about £1,900 difference. Mr E accepted some 
charges along with excess mileage and incomplete service history costs. But, he thought it 
was wrong that hes been charged for others - replacement tyres, for example, as the agent 
wouldnt have driven the car away if tyres werent legal. 
Mr E referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators considered the evidence. 
He was satisfied that Mr E was made aware of the VRS before collection and he had the 
option to check the car and have it repaired himself. Aside from the replacement tyres, the 
investigator thought the damage charged for was likely present on collection and falls 
outside relevant fair wear and tear standards. He wasnt persuaded it was unfair of MBFS to 
apply these charges. But, he noted the first inspection recorded between 3 and 6mm tread 
on tyres. He thought it likely, on balance, these items came within the VRS. And he 
recommended MBFS should remove the related charges (or refund the cost plus interest if 
Mr E has paid this already). 
MBFS accepted the investigators recommendations and agreed to remove the relevant 
charges but Mr E remained unhappy. In summary, he thinks the collection agent had a 
vested interest in increasing the damage found to retain MBFS as a client - and the 
unreasonable charges for replacement tyres demonstrate this. He says its convenient for 
MBFS to have a soft first inspection and second harder one. And the second inspection 
identified substantially more damage - 18 items compared to just 10 on the first (or more 
than double if tyres are included) - so it must have been more severe or the first was 
negligent. Mr E feels hes been open and honest in accepting most of the charges. He 
remains of the view that four were wrongly applied as follows:- 
1. RH rear quarter panel  dented 15-50mm - cold metal repair - £35.00  MBFS says  
this is outside the VRS as the dent exceeds 13mm and dents on swage lines or 
folder edges, high profile panels, bonnets/wheel arches etc. are not acceptable. Mr E 
says its not more than 13mm when compared to the measuring tool
2. bumper rear - scratched - refinish - £210.00  MBFS says its chargeable as scuff 
marks in excess of 50mm are not acceptable but Mr E doesnt accept this exceeds 
50mm when compared to the measuring tool
3. LH rear quarter panel - dented with paint damage - repair and refinish - £260.00  
MBFS says this is outside the VRS as any chipping and scratching of paintwork 
penetrating the base coat and/or has caused corrosion which cannot be polished out 
is not acceptable. Mr E cant see a dent visible in the photos provided  he thinks this 
looks like the curvature of the car body
4. LH sill  dented 50-100 mm - repair and refinish - £260.00  MBFS considers this 
falls outside the VRS which say dents on swage lines or folder edges, high profile 
panels, bonnets/wheel arches etc. unacceptable. Mr E thinks this isnt more than 
13mm and it looks the same as the RH rear quarter panel dent that only cost £35.00 
to fix.
Mr E feels it's also unfair to suggest that he had opportunity to calculate the likely cost of 
damage and decide whether to fix or keep the car. He cant reasonably be expected to 
identify damage that even the first inspector didnt record. And he was told it was too late to 
keep the car after the charges were notified. 
Our investigator reviewed the four areas of damage that Mr E contests. As regards item 1 
above he says the damage is at least 20mm, on a conservative measurement. And the 
50mm limit referred to in item 2 relates to scuffs and there are three areas of damage visible 
showing significant paint damage adversely affecting the appearance of the car. He 
considers the dent is clearly visible on the inspection video for item 3 and, in terms of item 4, 
the dent looks to exceed 13mm and theres damage to paintwork, whereas the dent on the 
RH rear quarter panel didn't go through the paint.
The investigator was satisfied that the damage in question is present and chargeable, as it 
falls outside the relevant standards. He wasnt persuaded that MBFS should have to do 
more than hed already recommended and Mr E asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
MBFS has agreed to remove charges applied in respect of replacement tyres now and Mr E 
accepts all but four of the remaining charges. So, Im going to deal with the outstanding 
issues only in this decision. I can see Mr E is unhappy with MBFSs return process generally. And I should make it clear 
at the outset that I dont have the power to tell MBFS how to operate on a day to day basis. I 
am not a regulator. The role of our service is to resolve disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers informally. And my job here is to consider the evidence 
provided by both parties, without taking sides, in order to decide what I think is fair and 
reasonable, in all of the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
Like the investigator, Ive reviewed the evidence including both inspection reports and 
associated photographs and video footage of the car. Im satisfied the first report records 
damage that goes beyond whats acceptable under relevant standards and the inspector set 
out, for example, where damage exceeds 50mm or goes through to the basecoat. I 
appreciate Mr E would have preferred it if this report had identified every item that was later 
charged for and included repair costs. But, I think the first report makes it fairly clear that this 
was a preliminary inspection and a second inspection would take place. And Im satisfied 
that relevant industry guidance, issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA), allows for a second inspection in this situation.
I realise Mr E is frustrated that additional damage was identified at the second inspection. 
Hes suggested the collection agent has a vested interest in finding damage is chargeable. 
Ive seen nothing to show the agent did something wrong here. And I dont think its 
surprising that there are differences between the two inspections. The purpose of the second 
was to check the car in better conditions  after cleaning say, or in better light  which allows 
damage (and the most appropriate repair methods) to be assessed more closely. Ive seen 
instances where charges have been removed after a second inspection - because damage 
wasnt as bad as first appeared. And, taking everything into consideration, I cant fairly find it 
was unfair or unreasonable for MBFS to arrange a second inspection here. 
Having reviewed the evidence available, Im satisfied the damage still disputed is present. I 
consider this goes beyond what could reasonably be considered fair wear and tear under the 
VRS and the BVRLA guidance. I think MBFS is entitled to be compensated for the failure to 
return the car in line with obligations set out in the HPA. And I cant fairly find it should waive 
or lower the charges any further. 
I appreciate Mr E feels that he should have been given more information about the likely 
charges earlier in the return process  so he could decide whether to keep the car or not. 
And he considers it is unreasonable to expect him  as a layperson - to realise that damage 
present went beyond whats acceptable and/or how much might be charged. But, Im 
satisfied Mr E was made reasonably aware that this car would be inspected on return. The 
HPA says he had to maintain it in good condition, hes responsible for making good any 
damage, the cars condition would be assessed in line with the VRS and he could be 
charged for any damage present beyond fair wear and tear. I think its likely Mr E was also 
reminded about this before the agreement ended. And it was open to him to have the car 
checked elsewhere before it went back - if he was unsure if damage was chargeable and/or 
how much it might cost to put right. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that the damage disputed by Mr E is present and chargeable. I think 
the amounts charged seem to be in keeping with MBFSs price matrix and Im not persuaded 
the relevant charges are disproportionate or unreasonable. I cant fairly find MBFS was 
wrong to apply these charges in the circumstances. And Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to require MBFS to remove the charges or reduce them further. 
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr E as its not the outcome he 
hoped for. Hes not obliged to accept what Ive said however  in which case, it remains 
open to him to pursue the matter by any other means available. My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Mercedes-Benz Financial Service 
Limited (MBFS) to remove the relevant charges for replacement tyres or, if Mr E has paid for 
these already, MBFS should refund the cost, plus interest at 8% simple a year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman