DRN-2962213
The complaint
Miss B complains the high interest rates on the loans, and her financial situation in 2012 
meant that she could not afford the loans approved by Harvey & Thompson Limited (H&T). 
What happened
Using some information H&T has then a brief loan table has been created. This table may 
not be entirely accurate as we have not been sent the agreements, but these figures are 
from some Statements of Account for the loans and H&Ts final response letter sent to 
Miss B in September 2019. So it is a brief overview of the loans. 
After Miss B had complained, H&T sent to her its final response letter (FRL) and it gave 
some descriptions of the loans. It said that Loan 1 in April/May 2012 was a Debit Card loan 
product. Loans 2 and 3 were Sentinel Loan products. 
H&T explained that Due to our General Data Protection Regulation requirements, H&T do 
hold not [sic] customer information such as application forms and bank accounts for more 
than 6 years.
H&Ts FRL states that Loan 2 was for a 22 month period but it was repaid in eight months 
and so the term of that loan is uncertain. It may have been repaid early by Miss B. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint with the limited information she had and her 
view was:
- without the income and expenditure information and results of the credit searches 
H&T carried out, she was unable to say whether loans 1 or 2 were unaffordable, and
- for loan 3 she did think that H&T ought to have made additional checks before 
approving it. However, as she did not have enough information to be able to assess 
whether increased checks wouldve likely made a difference, then her opinion was 
that she could not uphold it. 
Our adjudicator invited Miss B to send to us additional information to assist in the 
assessment. Nothing was received. 
Miss B did not agree with our adjudicators outcome and asked that the complaint be passed 
to an ombudsman.
Loan Reference Loan 
amountInterest Loan Term Date taken Date repaid
1 Debt card 
loan 
product£400 £104 Payday loan 
 assume 
short term01/04/2012 01/05/2012
2 *002
Sentinel£500 £296
(rounded)- 27/04/2012 12/12/2012
3 *007
Sentinel£750 £444
(rounded)22 months 04/12/2012 24/01/2015 
We wrote again to ask Miss B for copy bank statements for the period February 2012 to 
31 December 2012 so that the complaint could be reviewed. Nothing has been received.  
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending and high cost 
loans - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
At the time Miss B was approaching H&T for loans, the Office of Fair Trading had issued its 
irresponsible lending guide. So, I have considered that guide when assessing Miss Bs 
complaint. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure figures. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that H&T should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors included:
where the applicant had a low income 
the amounts to be repaid being especially large 
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
As these loans were nine years ago then its not unreasonable for H&T not to have some of 
the information as records cannot be kept indefinitely. I am aware that we do not have the 
terms or details of the agreements into which Miss B entered. So, I am proceeding on the 
basis that loan 1 was a payday loan. 
Its less clear for loans 2 and 3. H&Ts FRL describes both as 22 month loans. But reviewing 
what little information we have from H&T, Loan 2 appears to have been repaid early. One of 
the Statements of Account is for loan 2 which shows that a large cash repayment of about 
£284 was made to clear the debt on 4 December 2012. The earlier repayments had been 
around £66 and by Direct Debit. This suggests to me it was repaid early by Miss B. 
Loan 3 was repaid after 22 months. So that may have been the term length or it may have 
been a 12 month loan which Miss B repaid late. The Statement of Account we have for that 
loan shows regular Direct Debit payments of £50 a month from February 2013 until 
January 2015. 
When this complaint was first passed to me I looked at other information relating to some 
other complaints that Miss B has with this Service. And from those details I could see that it 
looks likely she had more than one County Court Judgment (CCJ) in 2011.
 Because of this, I asked our adjudicator to write to Miss B to ask her for details of the CCJs if 
she had them, and to ask for copies of her bank account statements for 2012. Miss B had 
been asked for these items before and yet nothing has been received. 
So, using what I have, and if the records I have found about CCJs in 2011 were correct, then 
I think that detailed checks ought to have been carried out before approving any of the loans. 
In its FRL H&T has said that it looked at copy bank statements before approving the payday 
loan. It explained: This review of your bank statements allowed us to further verify income, 
to assess your current account conduct, investigate your day to day finances and evaluate 
your financial management abilities. The review also provided, if applicable, clear 
confirmation of outgoings to creditors and other lenders for consideration.
And for anyone to be considered for a Sentinel loan then eligibility criteria were applied. H&T 
explained this criteria list included the requirement to have been in continuous 
employment over a minimum length of time, a net income above a minimum requirement, 
verification of income and employment, not to have any other current lending with H&T and a 
requirement for your bank statements to be submitted for analysis.
It appears from what I have from H&T that these checks may have been carried out before 
approving the loans for Miss B. But I have nothing from H&T to verify that. 
And without more from Miss B to allow me to comprehensively check what it is H&T did see 
in 2012, or what it would have seen had it carried out detailed checks in 2012, I am not able 
to come to any conclusions that Miss B was unable to afford the loans. 
On the evidence before me I have decided that I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman