DRN-3730320
The complaint
Mrs L complained because Scottish Widows didnt make her aware that her pension funds 
could be placed in cash.
What happened
Mrs L had a personal pension with Scottish Widows that had a total value of around 
£29,000. She retired in 2021 and she called Scottish Widows to discuss the options for her 
to start taking benefits. One option was to take some tax-free cash from the pension and 
leave the remainder invested via a drawdown arrangement. Mrs L said she wanted to take 
the tax-free cash as soon as possible and she would then work out how much to take in 
future years. Scottish Widows said that Mrs L would need to move the funds to a drawdown 
arrangement; and shed need to choose a fund for the remaining money to be invested in. 
The option of leaving the remaining money as cash was never discussed in this call  Mrs L 
never asked about it, and Scottish Widows never brought it up.
Following the call Scottish Widows wrote to Mrs L enclosing various general information 
documents about the pension and the different options available.
After shed read through what had been sent Mrs L spoke with Scottish Widows again to 
discuss the options further. She confirmed that she wanted to take the tax-free cash from her 
pension and leave the balance invested through Investment Pathway 4 (which aligned with 
her intention to take the remainder of her pension within the next five years). Again, the 
option of leaving the remaining money as cash was never discussed.
After the call Scottish Widows wrote to Mrs L confirming her choice and providing the 
necessary documentation. The arrangements were then put in place.
In May 2022 Mrs L spoke with Scottish Widows about the fund performance and the 
Pathway shed chosen. The funds had dropped by approximately £800 and she was 
unhappy that she hadnt been given the option in 2021 for the remaining money in her 
pension to have been held as cash.
Scottish Widows said that the control account  which is where the money is held in cash  
isnt offered to customers as it feels this is inappropriate because its unlikely to provide the 
customer with any long term returns on their investment.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt Scottish Widows had 
acted fairly as it had provided Mrs L with information about what she could do with her 
pension (including investing it as cash); and once Mrs L had made a choice it followed her 
instructions. In summary, she said Mrs L didnt ask Scottish Widows about keeping the 
remaining pension funds as cash, and there was no obligation on Scottish Widows to tell her 
she could do so.
Mrs L disagreed with our investigators conclusion. She said she only needed Scottish 
Widows to hold her pension for about five years until she could withdraw it tax free and she 
was guided towards the Investment Pathway 4 option. She felt that as Scottish Widows 
didnt mention the control account in October 2021 because they felt it was inappropriate it 
had advised her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scottish Widows had an overarching responsibility to treat Mrs L fairly and to provide her 
with sufficiently clear, fair and not misleading information so that she could make an 
informed choice on what to do with her pension.
In my opinion it wasnt practical for Scottish Widows to have gone through every possible 
scenario with Mrs L during the initial call  otherwise the length of these calls becomes 
excessive. But it needed to explain the main points. Im satisfied Scottish Widows broadly 
did this. It outlined the various options available to Mrs L in respect of taking benefits from 
her pension eg taking all the money as a lump sum, buying an annuity, taking tax-free cash. 
And when Mrs L said what she wanted to do it gave a brief outline of the process for taking 
the tax-free cash ie moving to a drawdown arrangement and investing the remaining money. 
Regarding the remaining money, Scottish Widows said Mrs L could choose one of four 
Pathways based on what she planned to do in the next five years or alternatively one of five 
portfolio funds. It said these would be explained in more detail in the Your guide to 
retirement account investment options for retirement income document.
It wasnt a requirement, in my opinion, for Scottish Widows to have discussed the various 
investment options  including leaving the money as cash  in detail during the call. The 
documents sent to Mrs L was Scottish Widows opportunity to provide more in-depth 
information in that respect. The document Ive just referred to started by saying there were 
three options in respect of the investments  an investment pathway, a pension portfolio 
fund or keeping the existing investments. It then outlined the four Pathways, which Scottish 
Widows designed based on how a consumer wished to use their pension pot:
Pathway one  no plans to touch the money in the next five years
Pathway two  plan to use the money to set up an annuity within the next five years
Pathway three  plan to start taking the money as a long-term income within the next five 
years
Pathway four  plan to take all the money over the next five years.
It then went on to say that if Mrs L didn't want to select a Pathway she could choose one or 
more of the five pension portfolio funds. One of these funds was described as:
a lower risk fund investing in Money Market' assets also known as 'cash' and 'near-cash' 
investments
with 'cash' not being the same as money in a normal bank account but the fund holding 
different types of 'cash-like' investments that have similar characteristics to bank 
deposits eg a fixed interest rate, quick access, low risk of capital loss.
My understanding is that this cash fund isnt strictly the same as the control account. But it 
strikes me as being very similar. So I think the document sufficiently highlighted that a cash 
like option was available to Mrs L if she wanted it.
The second phone call took place after Mrs L had read the documentation and decided what 
she wanted to do. As shed chosen Pathway four, rather than the cash like fund, I dont 
think Scottish Widows needed to point out that she could leave the funds invested as cash. It wasnt Mrs Ls advisor, and pointing out alternatives after Mrs L had already made her 
choice could be interpreted as trying to advise her to do something else.
In summary, Scottish Widows didnt specifically tell Mrs L that she could keep her money as 
cash via the control account. However, for the reasons outlined above, Im satisfied that it 
provided her with sufficiently clear, fair and not misleading information so that she could 
make an informed choice on what to do with her pension.
In closing, Mrs L has argued that Scottish Widows deciding that the cash option was 
inappropriate due to the lack of investment growth and therefore not telling her about this 
option was tantamount to it giving advice. Im not persuaded by this. In my view, the 
information Scottish Widows gave was for guidance rather than advice. But even if it was 
advice, it doesnt strike me as unsuitable because leaving funds invested as cash does run 
the risk of it losing its buying power as the funds dont usually grow sufficiently to keep up 
with inflation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman