DRN-3425619
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice an appointed representative of Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd gave to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr R to make his complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Rs. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1 , or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017 the DB scheme administrators sent its members time to choose packs. 
Those gave members three options:
To stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
To opt to move their benefits to the BSPS2. 
To transfer out of the scheme and into a private arrangement. 
Mr R approached a firm of financial advisers for advice. He was some way down the advice 
process when that firm told him it no longer had the regulators permission to give the 
relevant pension transfer advice. On the recommendation of a colleague Mr R then 
approached Vision. 
Vision met with Mr R in December 2017. It gathered information about his entitlement under 
his current DB scheme and obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. It completed a 
fact-find with him and an assessment of his risk appetite. It also received an illustration from 
a named personal pension of what Mr Rs pension might be worth if he transferred his 
benefits into it. Amongst other things, it recorded that:
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
Mr R was 56 years old, separated and planning to divorce. He had three adult 
children.
He was working with a yearly income of around £40,500. 
He had a net disposable income of around £1,100 a month which he was using to 
fund new business enterprises. He said he wasnt taking any income from his new 
businesses at that time. 
He had £4,500 savings in an ISA.
He was helping his ex-wife to pay off an interest free credit card debt. He paid £100 a 
month towards the outstanding balance of around £17,000. 
He was paying £550 a month rent.
He wanted the option to retire at age 60.
He wanted to buy his own house, without taking on a mortgage, and anticipated he 
would need in the region of £130,000 to do so. 
He had recently started paying into a group money purchase pension scheme. He 
paid 6% of his salary and his employer contributed 10%. It had a value of £4,980. 
He had death in service cover of around £162,000.
His DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £626,790. From 
which the BSPS2 would pay him, at age 65, a full pension of £30,289 a year or tax 
free cash (TFC) of £136,932 and a reduced yearly pension of £20,539.
The growth rates required (the critical yield) to match those benefits from a personal 
pension were 5.98% and 4.19% respectively.
The projected BSPS2 pension at age 60 was a full pension of £23,541 or TFC of 
£110,000 and a reduced pension of £16,603.
The critical yields to match those benefits were 11.01% and 6.94% respectively. 
The projected income, at age 60, if Mr Rs pension moved into the PPF was a yearly 
pension of £21,710.44 or TFC of £116,493.10 and a reduced pension of £17,548.53.
The critical yields to match those benefits were 6.65% and 5.55%.
Mr Rs risk appetite score came out as adventurous but after discussion he agreed 
to reduced that to balanced.
In January 2018 Vision produced a suitability report setting out its recommendation for Mr R 
and its reasons for those. In a detailed report, amongst other things, Vision said:
Mr R hoped his new business ventures would take off and thought he could commit 
to these at age 60 with the support of his pension.
He would like a yearly income in retirement of £16,800 a year. 
He was concerned about the reductions in benefits when the BSPS migrated to the 
BSPS2.
He would like to pass on any remaining pension to his children after his death.
He would like to use the maximum TFC to buy a house.
He thought the TFC available from the PPF would be reduced.
He didnt think he would remarry and so a spouses pension wasnt something he 
was concerned about. 
Vision thought the critical yield of 6.4%  for Mr R retiring at 60 while taking TFC  
would support the transfer. 
The named personal pension illustration showed that taking early retirement would 
provide Mr R with a far lower income than the scheme, although the TFC would be 
higher. 
Visions cashflow models showed that by taking equivalent income from the BSPS2 
by draw down from the named personal pension, the funds could last him beyond his 
life expectancy. The report added that Mr R was concerned because the BSPS2 still was not guaranteed and 
he didn't think the PPF was an option for him because of the early retirement penalties. He 
believed he was highly likely to retire early as his new business took off and moving to a 
personal pension would allow him freedom to access all or part of his pension fund should 
his circumstances change. He could pass on any pension left on his death to his adult 
children. 
Vision set out some of the advantages and disadvantages of transferring as well as the risk 
involved in doing so. It also noted that the named personal pension had an average annual 
return higher than 6.4%. But it later said that past growth was no guarantee of future growth.
On 22 January 2018 Mr R signed papers to go ahead with the transfer. In February 2018 
Vision wrote to Mr R again. It said that after checking its suitability report, it amended some 
of the information used in its cashflow forecasts, including increasing the amount Mr R would 
need to live off each month to a gross income of £1,541. It said it had applied those changes 
to its cashflow models which still showed that Mr R could draw down funds from a personal 
pension to beyond his life expectancy. 
In March 2018 the named personal pension provider confirmed that £626,790 had been paid 
into Mr Rs newly set up personal pension. Soon after that Mr R withdrew £130,000 from the 
fund in order to buy a property.
 
In 2021 Mr R complained to Vision via our Service that its advice wasnt suitable for him. 
Vision replied in December 2021. In short it felt that its advice was suitable for Mr R as it 
allowed him flexible access to his funds without any real risk that he would deplete those 
funds before his life expectancy.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She upheld it and said Vision should 
compensate Mr R for any losses and pay him £300 for his distress and inconvenience. In 
brief she said that she didnt think Visions advice was suitable for Mr R. She didnt think the 
benefits of transferring outweighed the guarantees he would be giving up.
Vision didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. In a detailed 
response it said, amongst other things, that a transfer from the scheme was the only way of 
allowing Mr R to achieve his goals including buying a property. It said some of Mr Rs 
evidence to us contradicted the information it held on file. It also provided us with a Defined 
Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT) which  I understand  was completed by 
external financial services consultants. The results of that assessment were that Visions 
advice was suitable for Mr R.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding to this complaint and replying to our investigators assessment of it Vision has 
made a number of detailed points. Ive considered carefully everything its said. But in this 
decision I don't intend to address each and every point individually and instead will focus on 
the matters which I see as being at the heart of Mr Rs complaint and the reasons for my 
decision.When reviewing the papers I noted that Vision had asked for the opportunity to test Mr Rs 
evidence at an oral hearing. I explained to Vision that I didnt feel an oral hearing was 
appropriate so I declined its request. 
Further Vision asked that, before arriving at my final decision, I issue a provisional decision 
to give it the opportunity to respond to that. But I would only think a provisional decision was 
appropriate where my final determination was different from that issued by our investigator 
or where I felt I needed to provide considerable further explanation, which it was fair for the 
parties to see before arriving at my final conclusions. I'm satisfied thats not necessary in this 
instance.
In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Vision's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that, when 
considering a transfer from a DB scheme:
a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. 
A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can 
clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in 
the client's best interests.
So, the starting assumption is that a DB transfer is unsuitable. This is known as the 
presumption of unsuitability. It follows that Vision should have only considered 
recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Rs best interests. 
And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied that was the case.Distrust and uncertainty 
In its suitability report Vision said Mr R had a distrust of his employer concerning pension 
matters. And in its response to our investigators assessment of the complaint it said, at the 
time it gave its advice, the BSPS2 was a proposal only. It added that Mr R had suffered a 
prolonged period of uncertainty, which was a factor to consider and arranging the transfer 
gave Mr R complete control of his pension. 
Im aware that many BSPS members like Mr R had serious concerns about their employers 
attitude towards their pension pots. The situation was evolving after the BSPS closed in 
March 2017. There was also some widespread trepidation about what moving pensions to 
the PPF meant for members. Its also well known that this was a period of uncertainty for 
people like Mr R. But this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and ultimately the need for suitable advice.
I understand there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived 
notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme. And its 
apparent that Mr R had some very real concerns about his employers conduct. Its also 
notable that hed already taken advice from another firm about transferring out of the DB 
scheme. So he might well have been leaning towards transferring his pension when he 
approached Vision. But Vision was tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and 
providing an appropriately balanced view of all the available options. And in order to 
recommend that Mr R should transfer out of his DB scheme Vision needed to be able to 
clearly demonstrate that doing so was in his best interests.
I dont dispute that when Mr R approached Vision there was still the possibility that his 
pension could move to the PPF. But at the time Vision gave its advice Mr R had already 
received and responded to his time to choose letter. He told Vision hed opted to move into 
the BSPS2 pending receipt of financial advice about transferring. And, in the preceding 
months there had been a number of developments including the approval of the RAA and a 
payment of £550m by Mr Rs employer into the scheme. So the wealth of evidence was that 
the BSPS2 was more likely than not to go ahead. 
In those circumstances, while it was still a slim possibility that the BSPS2 might not happen 
or could itself at some point go into the PPF, I think Vision should have addressed that 
concern. A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a reduction of around 10% in 
retirement income and less generous yearly indexed pension increases. But the 10% 
reduction didnt apply across the board, and for those taking early retirement the PPF could 
have been more beneficial. So, while I understand that the prospect of pension benefits 
moving to the PPF was for some people rather daunting, its probably the case that it wasn't 
as significant as many BSPS scheme members believed it to be.
Its also certainly possible, as I explain below, that Mr R could have met his needs in 
retirement and retained guaranteed benefits if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had 
to move his pension to the PPF. 
I've noted that, in response to our investigators assessment of the complaint, Vision said 
that it wasnt in a position to dissuade Mr R from feelings he had about his employer. But 
I don't think there's any suggestion that Vision should have tried to influence Mr R's feelings 
about his employer in general. But, given the importance of the situation, I think Vision 
should have taken the opportunity to clearly explain that the BSPS2 scheme trustees and his 
employer were not one and the same. And that the future of the pension scheme was in the 
process of largely being taken out of the employers hands. So Vision could have allayed 
Mr Rs concerns about the uncertainty of the scheme. Further, Visions told us that Mr Rs uncertainty was not a decisive factor in the reasons for 
its recommendation. Ill accept its evidence on that point. But, while it might not have been a 
key factor for Vision, I believe that, given the concerns I've outlined above, it remained a 
serious concern for Mr R and one that I'd dont think it did enough to address in the 
circumstances. 
Financial viability 
Vision carried out a transfer value analysis report known as a TVAS  as required by the 
regulator)  showing how much Mr Rs pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as those from the BSPS2 (the critical yield).
Vision gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
Mr R was 56 at the time of the advice and said he wanted to retire at 60, although his normal 
retirement age from his DB scheme was 65. The critical yield required to match Mr Rs 
benefits at age 60 was 11.01% if he took a full pension and 6.94% if he took TFC and a 
reduced pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 60 
was quoted as 6.65% if Mr R took a full pension and 5.55% per year if he took TFC and a 
reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by this Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 3.5% a year for 
eight full years to retirement at age 65. That fell to 2.8% a year for retirement at age 60. Ive 
kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and 
the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Rs 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr R 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yields were 
4.19% at age 65 and 5.55% at age 60 I think Mr R was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. This would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF .
Vision has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr R would have been able to meet 
his income needs despite the high critical yields. Its referred to models within its TVAS. It 
said those show that Mr Rs funds would be depleted by age 85 if he:
retired at 60;
took TFC and a reduced pension;
drew down an income equivalent to his BSPS2 pension; and
the fund grew at the middle rate of 1.8% (as per the named personal pension 
illustration after allowing for inflation).
Vision said that as this was beyond his life expectancy of 82, this showed that the fund could 
support him for the rest of his expected life. But that model relied on consistent growth at the 
mid-level. If the fund suffered a period of poor performance below the mid-level, or if Mr R drew more out of the fund than the amount he would have taken from the BSPS2, then the 
fund could be depleted much sooner, leaving him with less to live on in his retirement.
Visions also provided other cashflow models. It said those are stress tested to allow for 
crashes in the market (similar to that seen in 2008). And those show that the fund would still 
have sums left when Mr R reached 100 years old. But I think those models need to be 
treated with caution. While they do build in some periods of poor investment performance 
they also assume a flat rate of inflation and that Mr Rs income needs won't ever change. 
So, for example, in order for those models to be realistic Mr R would need to significantly 
reduce the amount he took from his personal pension fund from age 67 even though, having 
become entitled to the state pension, a new income stream had become available to him. 
And even with that additional income the TVAS report shows the fund would be depleted at 
age 85. 
Further Visions suitability report said a critical yield of 6.94% (for Mr R retiring at 60 and 
taking TFC) was achievable. And its then referred to the levels the named personal pension 
has gained by over the previous three and five years being higher than that figure in order to 
justify that. But, as Vision says later within the same report, past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance. So I consider the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting 
historic returns forward. And those are considerably below 6.94%. This leads me to believe 
Mr R would likely be substantially worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB 
scheme. Thats particularly the case if investment returns were consistently low.
Visions said that critical yields were not of central importance as Mr R was not looking to 
replicate the DB benefits with an annuity. I accept that was what Mr R told it. But, I find the 
critical yield is a useful tool as it is a reasonable comparison of the growth required in order 
to replace DB benefits with something of a similar nature, that is a product that would 
provide a guaranteed income for life. And as such I'm satisfied that critical yields remain a 
relevant consideration. Thats particularly the case as I dont think Mr R could realistically 
say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. 
While he said he wanted to retire at age 60, that was still over three years away, the scheme 
retirement age of 65 was still over eight years away. And Its entirely possible that Mr R 
would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by 
taking benefits from the BSPS2 or the PPF).
But, critical yields are not the only measure we use to compare pension benefits. As I've 
indicated above I've also looked at the regulators projected growth rates and the 
assumptions the personal pension provider used. Having done so, in my view, those figures 
do not show that a recommendation to transfer out of Mr Rs DB scheme was in his best 
interests.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Vision 
has argued in this case. It said its recommendation allowed Mr R to achieve his other 
objectives. So I've gone on to consider whether Vision has clearly demonstrated that its 
advice was in Mr Rs best interests. When doing so I've been mindful that Visions role was 
to find out what Mr Rs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what 
Mr R wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order 
to ensure its recommendation was in his best interests. 
Flexibility and income needs
Vision said the two key goals Mr R could achieve by transferring to the personal pension 
was to allow him to take maximum TFC in order to buy a home and also to allow him to retire 
early at age 60. But I dont think Mr R required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his TFC earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. 
At the time of Visions advice Mr R was separated. The suitability report says he was 
planning to divorce. Mr Rs told us recently that wasn't the case and that he still isn't 
divorced. But, while he might not have progressed with the divorce proceedings I accept that 
he gave Vision the impression that he intended to divorce in due course, as otherwise it had 
no good reason to include that information in its suitability report. 
Mr R told Vision he had given up the marital home to his ex-wife, was living in rented 
accommodation and wanted to buy a home. I accept this is what Mr R told Vision at the time. 
And, given the significant CETV and the amounts of TFC he could take from that, I can see 
how the prospect of withdrawing a sum large enough to buy a home without any resultant 
debt would be an extremely enticing prospect. I note that, while he initially said he intended 
to buy a home when he retired at 60, he found a property to buy almost immediately. So he 
took £130,000 from his personal pension soon after the CETV was deposited into it. But that 
wasn't something Mr R had to do. And crucially, I dont think it was something Mr R was 
fixed on doing regardless, even if Vision had recommended that he should maintain his 
choice to join the BSPS2.
At the time Mr R was paying monthly rent of £550. After paying his regular outgoings he had 
a disposable income of around £1,100 a month. So his rent was clearly affordable to him 
and he had no need to buy a home. But I can understand that, after accepting Visions 
recommendation and having access to significant TFC the temptation to use that money to 
buy a home straightaway became too attractive a prospect to turn down. However, by doing 
so he was depleting his personal pension fund earlier than expected, which means it would 
grow less than Vision had forecast. 
I think there were other options available to Mr R in terms of his housing situation other than 
taking his TFC. Plainly, he could have afforded to keep on renting if he wanted to. But he 
also had the option to borrow funds if he wanted to buy a property. I can understand the 
prospect of taking on a mortgage for someone age 56 and contemplating retiring at age 60 
might seem a fairly daunting prospect. And Vision recorded that he didnt want to take on a 
debt for that reason. I accept that is what Mr R told Vision at the time. But, as Vision was 
aware Mr R was fit and healthy and there's no indication he wasnt a reasonable prospect for 
creditors. At that time mortgage interest rates remained low. Generally at around two to 
three percent. So, while I can't say for certain, it seems likely he could have been a 
reasonable candidate for an interest only mortgage. At the very least, I think its something 
Vision ought to have explored.
On that basis, assuming Mr R borrowed £125,000 on an interest only basis over a ten year 
term and paid a deposit of £6,500 then (according to an online mortgage calculator2) if the 
interest rate was 3% Mr R would need to make mortgage payments of around £308 a month. 
That sum was less than he was paying in rent. And even if the interest rate was higher than 
this, I think that still wouldve been affordable for him. Mr R could then look forward to paying 
off the capital sum, using the TFC from his BSPS2 or PPF pension, when that became due. 
So he didnt need to give up the guarantees from his DB scheme in order to be able to afford 
to buy a property.
Vision's said Mr R wouldn't have had the funds to put down a deposit or to pay the other fees 
associated with a house purchase. Mr Rs provided us with evidence of the property he 
bought. And its notable that cost him £138,100, including certain fees. But, Mr R only 
deducted £130,000 from his personal pension fund at the time to meet those costs. And 
2 https://www.moneyhelper.org.uk/en/homes/buying-a-home/use-our-mortgage-calculatorVision noted he had a small amount of savings. So he was clearly able to find the other 
£8,100 from other sources. So I don't accept that Mr Rs only route to buying a home was by 
transferring his DB pension. 
Further, Mr R didnt have to buy a property straightaway. As I've said above, his initial 
intention was to buy a property at age 60 when he planned taking TFC. He only bought the 
property when he did because he happened to see it and knew he was about to have the 
funds. So, if he hadn't already transferred his DB funds Mr R could have put money aside to 
build up a deposit or savings in order to contribute towards buying a property nearer to 
retirement if he needed to. And in those circumstances he had no need to give up the 
guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme in order to realistically buy a home. At age 60, 
Mr R wouldve been able to take £110,686 as TFC from the BSPS2, which wouldve more or 
less allowed him to buy a property mortgage-free, particularly if he was able to build up 
further savings from his considerable disposable income.
Vision also said that by transferring out of the DB scheme Mr R could achieve his goal of 
retiring at age 60. And in its suitability report it said that Mr R had told it he needed an 
income of £1,400 a month or £16,800 a year to achieve that. Although in Visions 
January 2018 letter it told Mr R it had recalculated that sum to £1,541 a month  which is 
£18,492 a year. So, had he insisted on retiring at 60 I think Mr R could have met this figure 
while remaining in the scheme. Its particularly notable that the PPF would pay Mr R a yearly 
pension of £17,548.53 and TFC of £116,493.10 at age 60, which was more generous than 
the income from BSPS2, so  it was possible  that allowing his pension to move to the PPF 
could have been better for Mr R if he genuinely wanted to retire at 60. I note that this sum is 
slightly below the £18,492 Vision calculated Mr R needed. and the income from the BSPS2 
would have been lower still. But, Mr R would receive full state pension at age 67. And, in the 
intervening years, he could either use the surplus from his TFC to make up the shortfall or 
he could use the funds from his group money purchase pension scheme to up his income. 
So he didnt need to give up his guaranteed and safeguarded benefits in order to retire early. 
In any event I'm not convinced that early retirement was a concrete proposal for Mr R. 
I can fully understand Mr Rs wish to retire early. I think most people would say that they 
would like to retire early if given the chance. I also think most people would understand that 
having the opportunity to retire early isn't worth compromising their income security for the 
remainder of their life for. It seems to me that this is something Mr R was likely to reassess 
once he reached age 60. In fact Mr R turned 60 in 2021 and hes confirmed hes continued 
to work for the same employer and has no concrete plans to retire at present. And as such, 
I think early retirement was something that he aspired to, rather than a definite plan. In other 
words it was something that would be nice to have rather than a genuine need for Mr R.
In any event I dont think Mr R had a distinct need to take early retirement. As I've said 
above I can understand why he would want to retire at age 60. But, for most people, early 
retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would dramatically reduce most 
individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at an 
early retirement age, most people choose not to retire. Instead they opt to continue working 
to support their current and future lifestyle options. And that seems to be a more likely 
prospect for Mr R. But theres no evidence that Vision seriously challenged his objective of 
early retirement. So I dont think it met its obligations to challenge his objectives in light of 
what he would be giving up.
So while the option of drawing all his pension income flexibly might seem like something that 
would be nice to have, I can't see that Mr R had any genuine need for that flexibility that 
would be worth giving up guaranteed benefits for at the time that Vision gave its advice. So 
I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer.Death benefits 
Vision said that transferring DB funds to a personal pension allowed Mr R to leave the 
money left over on his death to his adult children. In contrast his DB scheme would only pay 
a 50% spouses pension. And, as Vision  not unreasonably  believed that Mr R would be 
divorced and single, this wasnt of value to him. 
When our investigator spoke with Mr R he said that leaving funds to his adult children wasnt 
a priority for him. I understand that this wasnt the impression he gave to Vision at the time. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and when a question is put directly to an individual 
about whether or not they want to leave a legacy for their loved ones on their death, I think 
the vast majority of people will reply that they do. So, at that moment in time it will be a 
priority for them. And I think its more likely than not that Mr R gave Vision an indication that 
he wanted to do the best for his family in the event of his death. I think thats the reply most 
people would give. 
It follows that, when discussing the various advantages of a personal pension the lump sum 
death benefits on offer through it was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. Thats because 
whatever was left within his personal pension at the date of his death would be passed on to 
his adult children. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and 
Mr R might have thought, at that time, it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme funds to 
a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr R about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family 
after death. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr R was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for his adult children that they may not receive or need for many years to come. And by that 
time, the fund could have been depleted by Mr Rs withdrawals from it in the meantime.
Vision said Mr Rs pension fund would last beyond his life-expectancy. So Mr R might have 
thought that guaranteed a significant lump sum for family on his death. But, some of Visions 
models show his funds being fully depleted in his mid 80s. And, if Mr R lived to his life 
expectancy there wouldnt be a large amount left over as a legacy for family. And if the fund 
grew by less than Vision expected, or suffered losses, then there would be less available as 
a death benefit.
Further, the fund would reduce as Mr R drew down money from it. And there was the 
potential for Mr R to draw down more than Vision had anticipated. That could happen for a 
number of reasons. For example Mr R might simply draw down the funds because they were 
there and he had access to them. Another possibility is that he might not reduce his draw 
down habits once his state pension becomes payable. In those circumstances then those 
withdrawals would reduce the lump sum benefit available in the event of his death. In fact 
every time Mr R takes a withdrawal he will be reducing the amount available as a legacy for 
his family after his death.
Mr R already had a significant death in service benefit through his employer. But if he 
wanted an extra sum to cover his retirement years, then he could have taken cover out on a 
whole of life or term insurance basis. Vision did give Mr R quotes for life cover. But the 
premiums were high and I can understand why Mr R didnt find them affordable or attractive. 
That said, I've noted that the level of cover quoted was for the full CETV of £626,790. Its not 
clear why Vision chose that sum as it was unlikely to be an amount available to his family on 
his death. But if he genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, but didnt want to pay a 
significant premium then Visions starting point ought to have been to ask Mr R how much he 
would ideally like to leave. It could then have looked into cover on a whole of life or term assurance basis, for that sum. And such a policy was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide 
than those Vision received quotes for.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R.
The Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT)
In its response to our investigators assessment of the complaint Vision said that in order to 
assess the suitability of its advice I should complete the regulators DBAAT and provide that 
to Vision. It said if I didnt intent to do so I should explain why I had departed from the 
relevant legal standard. 
Ill explain that the FCA introduced the DBAAT in 2019 to help it assess the suitability of DB 
transfer advice. It published the tool to help advising firms like Vision to understand its file 
review methodology and to allow them to understand whats expected of them. 
As I've said above I'm required to take into account the regulators rules, guidance and 
standards. But I'm not bound by them and my role isn't a regulatory one. Instead I need to 
determine whether Vision has acted fairly and reasonably in all the specific circumstances of 
the complaint. So, while I remain fully aware of what the regulators rules and guidance are 
concerning the suitability of personal recommendations in such cases, I'm not bound to 
follow the same process the FCA may choose to use when it considers the suitability of 
advice. 
Further the FCA says in an explainer video3 about the use of the DBAAT:
While this is the approach we use to assess DB transfer advice, this does not mean it is 
the only approach you can use.
So, it is not the relevant legal standard. It follows that, while the DBAAT remains a useful 
tool for both the regulator, advising firms and others to assess the suitability of advice, it is 
not something that I am obliged to use or to share with the parties to the complaint. 
Im satisfied Ive already considered the suitability of the advice as a whole, taking account of 
Mr Rs objectives. But Ive also considered the completed DBAAT which  I understand  a 
consultant completed while assessing Visions advice. I note the DBAAT tool in that case 
said the suggested suitability rating was potentially unsuitable. But the consultants final 
assessment was that the advice was suitable. In coming to that conclusion the consultant 
said that it was borderline with some factors supporting the transfer and others that didnt. 
On balance the consultant believed the recommendation to transfer was justified. 
However, I've arrived at a different conclusion. I would disagree with the consultants 
analysis of several questions posed by the DBAAT. I don't intend to address all of those here 
as Ive covered the main points above. But one such example would be whether Visions 
transfer analysis supported a recommendation to transfer. The regulators guidance on use 
of the DBAAT says that where a TVAS shows the benefits of remaining in the scheme 
outweighed those likely to be available under the proposed arrangement  in this case the 
named personal pension  this would be a strong pointer against the transfer being against 
a clients best interests. And, as I've explained above, I think the TVAS setting out the critical 
yields indicates that Mr R was likely to be worse off in retirement and as such a transfer 
wasnt in his best interests to transfer. 
3 The video can be viewed here: https://www.fca.org.uk/multimedia/introducing-dbaatAlso, as I've said above the consultant found the advice to be borderline. But the FCAs 
presumption of unsuitability says the evidence must clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Rs best interests. Thats a high bar to clear, and I dont think a borderline case, 
which might be evenly balanced as to whether to transfer or not meets the clearly 
demonstrate requirement, as the regulator requires. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Vision wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Vision was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr R about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Rs DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension. 
And at the time it gave its advice, in response to the time to choose letter , Mr R had 
already opted for moving his pension to the BSPS2.
I appreciate the BSPS2 hadnt been established when Vision gave its advice, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. And, for the reasons given above 
concerning early retirement I think its unlikely it would have been in his best interests to 
have stayed with the BSPS when it went into the PPF, as its indexation increases were less 
favourable. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr R would have kept the option to transfer out of 
the scheme nearer to his retirement age if that was what he decided to do at that point. So, 
I think Vision should have advised Mr R to maintain his decision to opt into the BSPS2. And 
ultimately, I dont think the advice Vision gave to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension Mr R was, as I've said above, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway 
if it wasnt for Visions advice. And, after thinking about this carefully, I'm not persuaded he 
would have done so. Thats because, Mr Rs BSPS pension accounted for a significant 
portion of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Vision had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests and that he would likely be worse off as a result of doing so, I think he would have 
accepted that advice. Im also not persuaded Mr Rs concerns about the future of the DB 
scheme was so great that he would have gone against Visions advice. Thats because 
Vision had the opportunity to clearly explain that the scheme trustees and his employer were 
not one and the same. And that the future of the pension scheme was in the process of 
being taken out of the employers hands. So Vision could have allayed Mr Rs concerns 
about the uncertainty of the scheme. And I don't think those would have been sufficient 
reason for Mr R to insist on a transfer. 
It follows that I don't think Visions advice to Mr R to transfer out of his DB scheme was 
suitable for him. And I think it should have advised him to stay in the BSPS2 instead. So, 
I think Vision should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, in line with the regulators 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. And, as this matter 
has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr R, I think Vision should pay him 
£300 to address that.Vision said that it no longer gives Mr R financial advice; so it shouldn't be responsible for any 
losses after it stopped advising him. But, if it wasnt for Visions advice Mr Rs funds would 
still be held within a DB scheme. And he wouldn't need financial advice and the funds 
wouldn't be in a position to suffer losses. So, I dont agree that Visions responsibility for loss 
stemming from its advice ceased when it ended its agreement with Mr R.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Vision to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would most likely 
have remained in the DB scheme and moved with it to join the BSPS2 if Vision had given 
suitable advice. 
Vision must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Vision should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and as far as Im aware, has no plans to do so at 
present. So, even though Mr R said he thought he might want to retire at age 60, Im not 
persuaded that he wouldve in fact done this had he remained in the BSPS2. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Vision should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Visions offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Vision may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 25%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Vision Independent 
Financial Planning to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Vision Independent Financial Planning pays Mr R the balance. 
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Vision Independent 
Financial Planning.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman