DRN-1922527
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr D ("the estate") complains that Santander UK Plc didn't act fairly or
reasonably when dealing with his death, and caused financial loss. It wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr D had a mortgage with Santander, and died in October 2016. His estate complained that
Santander issued legal proceedings to deal with the property and didn't make enough effort
to find the executor. It was also unhappy that Santander continued with the possession
proceedings once the grant of probate had been obtained or when it was told the mortgage
would be paid off through a cash payment. The estate felt Santander's solicitors were more
interested in going to court and it was unfairly given several redemption statements with
different figures to be paid. The estate said Santander's actions caused financial loss
through extra interest and legal fees, but also through a denial of use of the money the
property could've raised if it had found the personal representative itself.
The estate complained to Santander. It said when a borrower died, the mortgage became
due for payment in full. Santander accepted that it took time to resolve matters, but said it
couldn't let the mortgage run indefinitely. Santander said that it was told Mr D had died in
late March 2017 by an informant and a grant of probate was being obtained. Santander said
it wrote to the informant four times about what was happening with the property and heard
nothing, and it didn't receive any contact from the personal representatives. This was why it
sent a field agent to the property in November 2017, and after the agent could discover
nothing, it started litigation to take possession.
Santander explained that in February 2018 it was told that the informant wasn't going to deal 
with Mr D's estate, and it was only in April 2018 that the eventual personal representative 
told it that she would apply for probate. Santander said until the probate was obtained and 
sent to it, it couldn't stop the litigation. The probate document was received in July 2018 and 
a redemption statement requested, but Santander said it didn't include all the fees charged 
in the first statement, which meant it had to send more statements. It apologised if the estate 
felt its solicitors had acted poorly and paid £150 for any trouble and upset caused to the 
personal representative due to the issues with the redemption statements.
The estate complained to us, and said Santander should've realised that the informant
couldn't act as personal representative in the circumstances as there was no will. In
essence, the estate's position was that Santander was responsible for finding the personal
representative. The investigator's view was that Santander was at fault. He said that its own
policy required it to get the death certificate from the informant, and Santander didn't do this,
but relied on a search to confirm death. The investigator said if Santander had done so, it
would've found out earlier about the existence of the personal representative, and would've
stopped liaising with the informant. He also said Santander should've taken action earlier to
find other relatives of Mr D as it was clear it wasn't getting answers to its letters, rather than
issue possession proceedings. The investigator said if Santander had acted differently, thepersonal representative would've found out earlier about Mr D's death and the litigation fees
and interest charged since Santander knew of Mr D's death should be refunded with interest.
Santander disagreed. It said that there was no evidence the informant had a copy of the
death certificate, and its policy allowed it to rely on search results if no death certificate or
grant of probate was received. Santander pointed out that it was the informant who caused
all the delays and tried not to tell the personal representative about Mr D's death, and asked
to see the death certificate to confirm if it contained useful information.
The death certificate was supplied and did confirm the name, but not the address, of the
personal representative. Santander said that its policy said it should send any death
certificate received to a particular department, not that it should request it; it also pointed 
out that the personal representative was estranged from Mr D so the certificate didn't help 
and a lender wasn't responsible for informing her of his death. Santander also noted that a 
refund of interest from the date it was told about Mr D's death was unreasonable as it 
would've taken time to do as the investigator suggested. The estate was unhappy that 
Santander had dealt with the property and the informant without sight of a death certificate.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
"I think it would be useful to outline the responsibilities of everyone involved. Santander as
the lender had an interest in ensuring that the mortgage was paid. Interest can be charged
on a mortgage, even if the sole borrower dies, so it's important that matters aren't left in
abeyance for too long. But equally, families are distressed when a loved one dies and this
service wouldn't expect a lender to require action shortly after death. A lender isn't required
to seek out those who may be able to deal with an estate, or inform an estranged spouse of
their husband's death. The role of lender is simply to deal with the loan; it's not its role to
advise about probate or intestacy, matters best left to legal specialists.
It's for the relatives or personal representatives to contact the lender to inform it of a
borrower's death. It's for the estate to provide death certificates and grant of probate. When
someone tells a lender about a borrower's death, it's standard industry practice for the lender 
to tell that informant that the mortgage needs to be paid (or dealt with by the estate), that 
interest will continue to be charged, and to ask for a death certificate. I don't know what
happened in the call between Santander and the informant as I'm not able to listen to it or
read the notes due to lack of consent from the informant. But it's more likely than not this
process was followed as Santander followed the rest of its process.
The next step, if a death certificate is not received, is to verify the death. Santander did this
using a search tool. There's no evidence that the informant was given any information about
the mortgage, but I can see Santander wrote to the informant several times asking for
information and about probate. No response was received. As Santander didn't have the
death certificate, and there's no central register of wills, I don't see how it could've known
about the personal representative (who was appointed due to the lack of a will) until she
contacted it in July 2018. More to the point, the estate says that the informant deliberately
didn't tell the personal representative about Mr D's death until action was necessary due to
the later possession proceedings; ironically, it seems that the actions of Santander led to the
personal representative being informed of the situation.Santander instructed a field agent to visit the property, given the lack of response from the
informant. I don't think the lender can be blamed for not doing more; it didn't know of the
personal representative's existence and there's no obligation on lenders to carry out heir
research. The personal representative didn't live with Mr D, and was estranged from him, so
there's no evidence Santander would've found her, particularly without sight of the death
certificate. Given the lack of response and the failure to obtain probate, I can't say Santander 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in issuing litigation proceedings as it protected the equity in 
the property and led to the appointment of the personal representative.
I thought about Santander's position in relation to the proceedings once it received the grant
of probate in July 2018. The difficulty by then was that the mortgage was significantly in
arrears and there was only a promise to pay the mortgage from the estate. In fact, the
mortgage was paid in full a few weeks afterwards; the property wasn't sold to do this. I can
see nothing really happened in the proceedings once probate was obtained; there was little
time that elapsed between the grant of probate and the request for redemption statements. I
can't say that the estate was disadvantaged.
I think it was unfair and unreasonable for Santander to have not sent a correct redemption
statement to the estate in the first place. But this didn't cause financial loss. The estate of a
deceased person can't suffer trouble and upset. And I note Santander has paid
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the redemption statement issue in any
event."
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Santander said that it had nothing to add. The estate 
said that Santander had been found by the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") in 2018 to 
have had serious failings in its probate and bereavement process between 2013 and 2016. It 
said that while it couldn't prove the informant provided the death certificate, the estate 
thought that this was possible, and in any event thought Santander should've found the 
personal representative as it had an obligation to close banking accounts.
I've thought about what the estate has said, but I don't agree with its position. First, the FCA 
findings referred to by the estate aren't about mortgages or loans, but focus on when the 
holder of a bank account died. The investigation was about Santander and its delivery of 
money it held, not loans. The position is different when a financial business is acting as a 
lender - there's no obligation for it to immediately take over and search for an heir or 
personal representative. As I said in my provisional decision, "A lender isn't required to seek 
out those who may be able to deal with an estate, or inform an estranged spouse of their 
husband's death. The role of lender is simply to deal with the loan" - the role of a bank 
holding money in a bank account is entirely different. I also note that the period covered of 
the FCA review was before Mr D's death and Santander had changed its processes.
And as I explained in my findings, given the unusual circumstances of this case, the death 
certificate wouldn't help find the personal representative due to the estrangement. Santander 
has provided evidence that it didn't receive the death certificate, but I don't think it would've 
made any difference.I remain of the view that my findings in the provisional decision are fair and reasonable, and 
confirm that they are now my final findings and decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of the late Mr D to accept or reject my 
decision before 14 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman