DRN-1143005
The complaint
Ms T and Mr W complain that Legal & General Insurance Limited acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in declining their claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. They want the 
claim accepted.
What happened
Ms T and Mr W had a legal expenses policy with Legal & General. They wanted to make a 
claim under the policy in relation to a property they bought - Mr W said that the house didn't 
have a kitchen from a particular supplier as advertised, and that the company who sold them 
the property hadn't dealt with the whole "snagging" list of issues with the property. Legal & 
General declined the claim.
Ms T and Mr W complained to Legal & General. It said the purchase of a property didn't fall 
under the heading of "goods and services" as defined by the law or this service, and this was 
why the claim was declined.
Ms T and Mr W complained to us, but said that their complaint was only about the snagging 
list issue (though they changed their position later). They said that their claim should be 
accepted under the term offering cover for "an event which causes or could cause physical 
damage to your home". Legal & General said that it initially believed that the contract to buy 
the property was entered into before the insurance policy started, but once the position was 
clarified by Mr D, it remained of the view that a property wasn't a "good", that 
misrepresentation claims were excluded, and claims about the building of a property were 
also excluded.
The investigator's view was that Legal & General wasn't at fault. He said that the terms 
"goods" didn't cover a property, but in any event this section specifically excluded claims 
about the sale or purchase of a property. The investigator said that the property section, 
which Mr W had highlighted, didn't cover the claim as it specifically excluded claims based 
on a contract between the parties to the litigation.
Ms T and Mr W disagreed. They said they didn't enter into any other contract ,other than to 
buy the property. And they thought that the quality of the workmanship might cause damage 
to their property and the policy should be read as a whole. Ms T and Mr W sent evidence of 
what they were promised and said that it wasn't provided. The investigator said that the 
brochure sent was all about the purchase of a property and the contract covered all the 
issues connected to this, which was excluded by the policy. Ms T and Mr W asked for an 
ombudsman's decision and said that the issues with the kitchen should be seen as separate 
to the issue with the building.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to Legal & General, I'm also 
referring to its agent.The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal & General has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy itself. It says contract claims can 
be brought "To pursue a legal action directly arising from you buying or hiring goods or 
services for your own private use" but excludes misrepresentation and false claims, and 
"dispute over the sale, purchase ... of land or buildings and "Anything to do with building ... 
all or part of your home". The policy also says a claim for damage (or possible future 
damage) to a property is covered but not if the claim is based on "A contract you have 
entered into." Under the terms and conditions of the policy, I don't think Ms T and Mr W's 
claim is covered as the contract claim is excluded due to the nature of the contract itself (to 
buy a property), and because the property claim is excluded as it's based on a contract. This 
service takes the view that "goods" mean something moveable, such as something you 
could buy in a shop. A property isn't a "good".
But I'm not bound just by the legal position as set out within the policy. I have to look at 
what's fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. Ms T and Mr W say that 
the kitchen issues should be viewed separately from the other building issues and treated as 
a "goods" claim. The difficulty Ms T and Mr W face is that everything connected to the 
property of which they complain, including the kitchen issues, arise from one contract to buy 
the property. If there had been more than one contract, the position might be different, but 
Legal & General and this service can only deal with the situation that exists.
Insurers must set out clearly what is and isn't covered, and I find that the policy in this case 
does so. This enables insurers to calculate what premium should be charged; it isn't fair to 
add new things to be covered if the policy doesn't say that the claim will be included. To put 
it another way, the policy says that for contract claims, it only covers "goods" claims and it's 
accepted that a property isn't a "good"; further, the policy specifically excludes 
misrepresentation and false claims. 
For property claims of the type Ms T and Mr W want to bring, the policy clearly says that 
claims arising from a contract isn't covered, nor is anything about the building of a property. I 
can't say that this is unfair or unreasonable as it's clear stepping back and reviewing the 
whole policy that Legal & General didn't want to cover disputes between a policyholder and 
a builder or developer under this policy.  It isn't unfair or unreasonable to apply the policy's 
terms and conditions as they're drafted, and the various sections can't be merged to get the 
outcome Ms T and Mr W want.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman