DRN-3471913
The complaint
Mr A complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined his claim on his 
Buildmark building warranty, for fire safety concerns.
What happened
Mr A bought a new flat that came with a ten-year building warranty provided by NHBC. 
In June 2020 the managing agent of the building instructed a report to ensure it met the 
requirements laid out in new building regulations in relation to fire safety. The report 
concluded that the timber decking on balconies and spandrel panes on the external walls 
would need to be replaced as they didnt meet the updated regulations. 
Following the report, the managing agent arranged for the work to be completed to bring 
these areas up to standard. Mr A was invoiced for the work on his balcony and a contribution 
to the spandrels. He subsequently made a claim on the warranty for these costs.
NHBC considered the claim under section 4 of the warranty. However it declined the claim. It 
said as the work had been completed, there wasnt an imminent danger to safety, as is 
required for a successful claim under section 4. And it said the balconies and spandrels met 
the building regulations in place at the time of construction, so it didnt agree there was a 
defect as defined in the warranty. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this and raised a complaint. NHBC accepted it had taken too long to 
deal with Mr As claim and offered £150 to make up for this. However it maintained its 
decision to decline the claim. Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he was satisfied NHBC had made a fair claim decision as it had shown that the parts of 
the building in question met applicable building regulations at the time of construction. And 
he thought the £150 offered was enough to apologise for the delays in dealing with his claim. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As warranty states that a claim under Section 4 will be successful if:
Repairs needed where there is a present or imminent danger to the physical health and
safety of the occupants of the Home because the Home does not comply with the
requirements of the Building Regulations that applied to the work at the time of construction
NHBC has provided two reasons why they declined the claim  as the building regulations 
were met at the time of construction and because the work has been carried out already, so 
there isnt an imminent safety risk. I only need to be satisfied that it had acted fairly by 
applying one of these, in order to say it acted fairly when declining the claim. 
Ive started by considering whether it fairly declined the claim based on the building 
regulations at the time. 
When considering this, it isnt for me to determine whether the building met the required 
regulations. This requires technical expertise and structural consideration that falls outside of 
the remit of this service. Instead I need to consider if NHBC has made a fair decision based 
on the available evidence. 
While the warranty began in 2010, NHBC has confirmed that the date of construction of the 
building was 2006. The building regulations in place at this time were Building Regulations 
2000 and Approved Document B 2000, with 2002 amendments.
Ive considered these documents alongside NHBCs comments.
Spandrels
Building regulations 2000 require external walls to resist the spread of fire over the walls
and from one building to another NHBC has shown that the spandrels were positioned 
a long distance apart so Im persuaded there would be no reason to consider them a risk 
of fire spread.
Approved Document B 2000 states that insulation material used in ventilated cavities in 
the external wall construction should be of limited combustibility. NHBC has shown that 
the insulation core of the spandrel (the part that needed to be made fire safe) was not in 
a ventilated cavity, so Im persuaded this requirement wouldnt apply. 
Balcony
Neither the Building Regulations 2000 or Approved Document B 2000 place any 
requirements on balconies in relation to fire safety, expect for those that are used as an 
escape route. 
This is confirmed in the report instructed by the managing agent in 2020, which stated At 
the time of construction, Approved Document B did not provide detail as to what fire 
rating of balconies beyond those that form as an escape route.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr As balcony was used as an escape route, so Im 
persuaded there were no requirements for Mr As balcony at the time of construction. 
Mr A has said that building regulations require the building to be fire safe and, due to these 
defects, it wasnt. While I appreciate his frustration, the warranty only covers defects where 
the building didnt meet the required regulations at the time of construction. And while the 
regulations have been updated since, and so the building may no longer be considered fire 
safe, from the evidence Ive seen, the areas did meet the requirements in place when they 
were constructed.
Mr A hasnt provided any evidence to show that the building regulations at the time of 
construction were not met. On the other hand, Im satisfied NHBC has done enough to show 
that the regulations were met and that the claim hasnt met the requirements under section 4 
of the warranty. I therefore think its acted fairly by declining the claim. 
As Im satisfied NHBC has acted fairly by declining the claim based on building regulations 
not being breached at the time of construction, Ive not considered the points its raised 
around the work already having been completed. 
DelaysNHBC has agreed it took longer than it should to deal with Mr As claim. Its offered £150 to 
make up for this delay. I agree it could have dealt with the claim more promptly, so Ive 
considered the impact this delay has had. As the work required to make the building fire safe 
had already been carried out, I cant see that the delay in dealing with Mr As claim had an 
impact on the problem being resolved. However I agree it would have been inconvenient for 
Mr A to have to chase NHBC for an answer for longer than he should. I think the £150 
offered is enough to make up for this inconvenience and in line with our approach in other 
cases. So I wont ask NHBC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman