DRN-2101579
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about seven instalment loans he took with Gracombex Ltd  trading as 
The Money Platform (Money Platform). He says these loans were unaffordable. 
What happened
 The loans were taken out between February 2018 and March 2020. A summary of Mr Ws 
borrowing history is as follows:
Mr Ws complaint was reviewed by two of our adjudicators. The first adjudicator didnt think 
there was anything in the information Money Platform had asked Mr W to provide that should 
have prompted it to do more checks for loans 1 to 3. So, the adjudicator couldnt say Money 
Platform was wrong to have given these loans to Mr W. However, they did think that the 
loans from loan 4 onwards shouldnt have been lent as the adjudicator thought at this point 
Mr W was showing signs of struggling to manage his money. 
Money Platform disagreed and the case was passed for an ombudsmans decision. Whilst 
the complaint was waiting to be assigned to an ombudsman it was reviewed by another 
adjudicator. 
The second adjudicator thought that as well as loans 1 to 3, Money Platform also wasnt 
wrong to provide loans 4, 5 and 6. But they didnt think Money Platform should have 
provided loan 7 because Mr Ws borrowing behaviour indicated he was reliant on these 
types of loans. 
Money Platform accepted our adjudicators view. But Mr W disagreed because he said he 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Max 
Repayment
1 05/02/2018 31/03/2018 3 £250.00 £139.33
2 03/04/2018 26/04/2018 3 £250.00 £139.33
3 08/08/2018 31/10/2018 3 £250.00 £139.33
Break in lending
4 27/06/2019 29/08/2019 2 £250.00 £181.00
5 04/09/2019 28/11/2019 3 £250.00 £139.33
6 06/12/2019 18/02/2020 3 £250.00 £139.33
7 03/03/2020 outstanding 3 £250.00 £139.33had other debts at the time that should have been considered. So the complaint has how 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Money Platform needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Money Platform should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Money Platform was required to 
establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
There was a significant break in Mr Ws borrowing from Money Platform. There was a gap of 
around eight months between loans 3 and 4. A break in the chain of lending, in effect, starts 
the clock ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when considering the length of the borrowing relationship with the 
consumer.
As such, I think it would be reasonable for Money Platform to view this gap as an indication 
that Mr Ws finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances were that had caused 
him to take out his previous loans. So, I will look at Mr Ws borrowing in two separate lending 
chains. 
In the most recent assessment, our adjudicator upheld loan 7. Money Platform agreed with 
our adjudicators assessment. As Money Platform has agreed with our assessment and      
Mr W hasnt given me anything more to think about on this loan, I wont make any further 
findings on it. Mr W also hasnt given me anything more to think about for loans 1 to 3 - 
which neither of our adjudicators upheld. So, I wont be making any further findings on these 
loans either. 
That just leaves loans 4 to 6 to consider. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators view 
because he thought Money Platforms checks didnt go far enough. Mr W said it should have 
been aware that he was struggling financially and had other loans with short-term and high-
cost lenders. So, it shouldnt have lent to him.
Money Platform has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of 
the borrowing. It has said it asked Mr W about his employment status and he confirmed he 
was employed and had a monthly income of between £1,750 and £1,900. Money Platform 
also checked Mr Ws normal monthly living costs. Mr W declared these to be between £996 
and £1,340 a month. 
Based on this information, I dont think Money Platform ought to have increased its checks 
before it lent to Mr W again.   
Mr W borrowed all three loans within six months. So, he was relatively early on in his lending 
relationship with Money Platform. Even though he had to make monthly repayments the 
highest repayment appeared affordable based on the information he declared to Money 
Platform. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr W provided at the time which 
would have given Money Platform cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Money 
Platform to have relied on what Mr W gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Money Platform to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Money Platform did before 
lending the loans went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake 
any more in-depth checks. 
I appreciate, from what Mr W has said, the information he declared to Money Platform at the 
time of the loans may not have been an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances. 
But I think Money Platform was entitled to rely on that information. At this stage of the 
lending relationship, and what Money Platform knew about Mr W, I wouldnt have expected it 
to verify the information Mr W gave it. This therefore means, I cant say that Money Platform 
did anything wrong in lending Mr W these loans. So, I wont be asking Money Platform to do 
any more than its already agreed to do. 
Ive noted Mr Ws comments about his other complaints with this service which show his 
other debts. But as Ive explained above, I wouldnt have expected Money Platform to do 
more in-depth checks at the stage Mr W was at with his borrowing. And I appreciate that my 
findings are likely to disappoint him. But I hope my explanation will help him understand why 
Ive reached this conclusion.Putting things right
As a reminder this is what Money Platform has agreed to do with regards to loan 7;
If Money Platform has sold the outstanding debt, loan 7, Money Platform should buy it back 
if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Money Platform cant buy loan 7 
back, then Money Platform should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below.
A) Money Platform should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 7, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on that loan. If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then Money 
Platform should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. 
B) If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr W. However, if there is 
still an outstanding balance then Money Platform should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr W. Money Platform shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made 
up of principal Money Platform has already written-off.
C) Money Platform should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in 
relation to loan 7. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gracombex Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Gracombex Ltd 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint and Gracombex Ltd should put things right as Ive 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman