DRN-3773125
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim 
under their home insurance policy for damage to a wall at their property in bad weather. 
Aviva use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Aviva includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, a section of a wall at the rear of Mr D and Mrs 
Ds property blew down. They contacted Aviva to tell them about the damage and lodge a 
claim. Aviva appointed a firm (S) to assess the damage and handle the claim.
S visited the property and assessed the damage. They noted high wind speeds on the date 
of the incident and that sections of the wall had been damaged but were repairable. They 
subsequently made a cash settlement offer to repair the damage (£1389.83, subject to the 
deduction of the policy excess). 
Mr D and Mrs D then obtained an estimate from a contractor to rebuild the wall (£4,600). 
Given the significant difference from the cash settlement offer, Aviva asked for a breakdown 
of the estimate. When the breakdown was provided, Aviva noted it included an element for a 
foundation (£1,920). When Aviva asked whether the foundation had been damaged in the 
incident, Mr D and Mrs D said there hadnt been a foundation (the wall was built on chalk) so 
to rebuild the wall, it would need a foundation. Aviva said they wouldnt cover that element, 
as it wasnt present before the incident. To put it in place would constitute betterment, which 
wouldnt be covered under the policy. Aviva also thought a foundation wouldnt be required 
(for a boundary wall) under the relevant building regulations.
Mr D and Mrs D challenged Avivas position, saying the cash settlement wouldnt cover the 
cost (from the estimate theyd obtained) of rebuilding the wall. They also challenged Avivas 
position of not covering any work to put a foundation in place, as well as the time taken for S 
to respond to an email theyd sent. Aviva considered this as a complaint.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, maintaining their decision to offer a cash settlement. They 
noted the estimate from Mr D and Mrs Ds contractor included adding foundations to the wall 
(which werent in place prior to the incident). Aviva said their responsibility where a claim 
was accepted was to put Mr D and Mrs D back into the position they were in before the 
incident. They believed their cash settlement offer did this, referring to the policy terms and 
conditions. As there were no foundations before the incident, they werent liable to cover the 
cost of putting foundations in place. But they accepted there was some delay in responding 
to Mr D and Mrs Ds email, for which they apologised.
Mr D and Mrs D then complained to this service. They said the cash offer made by Aviva 
wasnt enough for them to have the wall repaired. They wanted Aviva to pay the amount they 
thought would be needed to repair the wall. They accepted theyd have to cover the cost of 
work on the footing (foundation) as it was deemed to be betterment (which Aviva wouldnt 
cover).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Aviva had offered a fair and 
reasonable settlement. He also noted Avivas settlement was based on repairing the wall, 
whereas Mr D and Mrs Ds contractor estimate was based on rebuilding the wall, including a 
foundation. He also noted a foundation wasnt present in the wall before the incident (and 
not required under Building Regulations). So, the two estimates werent comparable. He also 
didnt think a rebuild of the wall (including foundation) was necessary.
Mr D and Mrs D disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said they didnt think Avivas cash settlement was based on the 
going rate for the work involved (though they hadnt seen a detailed, costed breakdown of 
Ss cash settlement figure). They also said theyd only been offered a cash settlement by 
Aviva, not the option to have Avivas contractors carry out the necessary repair work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr D and Mrs D.
The main element of Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint is that Avivas cash settlement offer isnt 
sufficient to enable them to have their wall rebuilt (given the significantly higher estimate 
theyve obtained from a contractor). Aviva say their cash settlement offer is fair and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. They also say they wont cover the cost (included in the 
contractors estimate) for putting in place a foundation when the wall is rebuilt. They say the 
wall didnt have a foundation at the time of the incident, and their responsibility is to put Mr D 
and Mrs D back in the position they were before the incident. 
As a service, when we consider complaints about claims for storm damage, there are three 
key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
However, in this case there isnt a dispute there were storm conditions on the date of the 
incident (the date of Storm Eunice) or that the damage to the wall was consistent with that a 
storm typically causes. Nor is it disputed the storm conditions were the main (or dominant) 
cause of the damage. 
Aviva have accepted the claim  but the key issue of disagreement between them and Mr D 
and Mrs D is the cash settlement theyve offered.
In their final response, Aviva refer to the following policy terms and conditions under the 
Buildings section conditions where theres sub-heading 2. Settling claims (except liability) 
that states:
We can choose to settle your claim by repairing, rebuilding, giving you an equivalent 
replacement or making a payment
If we are able to repair, rebuild or replace your property but agree to settle using cash 
or a voucher we will only pay you what it would have cost us to repair, rebuild or 
replace it.I think this is clear (and is common to most household insurance policies). Aviva can choose 
to make a cash settlement (payment) to settle the claim. I recognise Mr D and Mrs Ds point 
about not being given the option for contractors appointed by Aviva to carry out the work, 
but the policy terms and conditions above indicate its Avivas choice on how to settle a 
claim. So, in offering a cash settlement theyve acted in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
And the cash settlement is based on Ss assessment of the cost of rebuilding the wall in the 
form it was before the incident, based on what it would have cost Aviva (their appointed 
contractor) to do the work. Ive noted the settlement is based on rebuilding a greater area of 
the wall than that in Mr D and Mrs Ds contractor estimate. 
Picking up Mr D and Mrs Ds point about whether Ss estimate is based on the going rate (as 
they havent seen the detailed cost estimate behind the cash settlement) its the case that 
insurers will have access to a network of contractors, with whom they will have 
arrangements for work to be carried out at discounted rates. So, any cash settlement offer 
will reflect these discounted rates (and therefore lower than the rates available to 
consumers). And in this case, I can see the cost per square metre of rebuilding the wall is 
substantially lower in Ss assessment than in Mr D and Mrs Ds contractor estimate. 
The other key issue is that of rebuilding the wall to include a foundation. Aviva say Mr D and 
Mrs Ds contractor estimate includes an element for putting in a foundation  which wasnt 
there at the time of the incident. They say their responsibility is to put Mr D and Mrs D back 
in the position they were before the incident. To include a foundation would mean putting 
them in a better position (as they would have a wall with a foundation, where one wasnt 
previously present). This principle is known as betterment, and its standard practice that 
insurers wont cover the cost of anything that constitutes betterment.
Considering this principle together with the information and evidence available, Ive 
concluded that covering the cost of putting in a foundation would put Mr D and Mrs D in a 
better position than they were in at the time of the incident, as the indications are the wall 
didnt have a foundation of the type thats included in the estimate from their contractor. So, 
Ive concluded Aviva acted fairly in not including it within their own scope of work (upon 
which their cash settlement was based).
I can understand why Mr D and Mrs D would want the wall to be rebuilt with a foundation 
(which presumably will make it stronger and therefore better able to withstand any future 
storms or bad weather). But it wouldnt be reasonable for Aviva to have to cover the cost, as 
Ive set out above. And Ive noted that in their complaint to this service, Mr D and Mrs D say 
they accept theyd have to cover the cost of work on the footing (foundation).
Taking these points into account, Ive concluded Aviva acted fairly in offering a cash 
settlement based on what it would have cost them to repair the wall (using their own 
contractors).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman