DRN-3286068
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited trading as Prudential Home
Insurance (UKI) dealt with her home insurance contents claim in respect of flood damage.
Her policy with UKI covers the contents only.
What happened
In March 2018 Ms B suffered a flood in her garage from a burst pipe. She had a
considerable amount of contents stored in the garage which were affected by water damage.
She made a claim to UKI, who appointed loss adjusters. Following a site visit it was decided
to appoint disaster recovery specialists to itemise the contents and decide which were
beyond economic repair (BER) and which could be recovered.
There was an initial delay before this could start as it was discovered that there were tiles in
the garage which may contain asbestos. Specialists were appointed to assess this and were
able to confirm there was no asbestos present.
UKI arranged for two pods and a skip to be delivered and contractors from the recovery
specialists attended. There is some dispute between Ms B and the said contractors as to
what happened on site. The contractors insist that Ms B approved every item to be put in the
skip or in the pods. They say that Ms B removed items from the skip and placed them in the
pods. On the other hand Ms B insists that the contractors placed soaking wet bags of items
in the pods, contaminating the other items. The loss adjuster came out for a site visit, and
following this, UKI reviewed the list of BER items and offered settlement of £2,066. It said
this was based on the value of the items rather than the value if replaced. It was willing to
consider replacing items Ms B required replacing. It says that a cheque for this sum was
sent to Ms B but she refused to accept it.
Ms B declined the offer of settlement, saying that there were a number of items that UKI
hadnt assessed, and that the items were of considerably more value. For example she said
she had a number of valuable books, which were first editions. UKI wouldnt increase its
offer of settlement but said it would consider any items for which Ms B provided photos, their
original cost and a description of these and other items to be added to the list. Ms B
produced lists of items which she said hadnt been considered. She said that she also sent
photos.
UKI declined to increase its offer of payment or to consider the further items. It said the items
damaged were those on the BER lists, and that any other items were cross-contaminated by
Ms B removing them from the skip and placing in the pods. It further said that she hadnt
produced satisfactory proof of the damage to any other items. Ms B strenuously denies
taking any items from the skip and putting them in the pods.
Ms B further complained that the skip driver had broken a concrete post, that the driveway
had been damaged by the heavy lorries and that her garage doors had been broken. She
also said that she had suffered personal injury when a heavy pewter bowl fell on her leg.
UKI said it had no liability for the concrete post or for Ms Bs personal injury. In respect of the
latter it believed she had been injured because of the positioning of a drying machine which
it said was the responsibility of the buildings insurer. As regards the drive, and the garage
doors it said the damage in both cases was pre-existing. It said that satellite images had
shown the drive to be in poor condition and the garage doors had been previously removed
and were likely damaged when put back.
In respect of the pods she said that UKI had delayed removing these. UKI said that the delay
was due to Ms Bs failure to reply to communications about this. Nevertheless it agreed to
make a payment of £3,394 for the repair of the lawn.
On referral to this service our investigator didnt think it had been shown that UKI was
responsible for the damage to the drive, garage doors or for Ms Bs personal injury. In
respect of the assessment of the items he said it was very difficult to assess the evidence
when both parties made such contradictory statements about it. He did think that UKI had
caused some confusion over communications and the arrangements for dealing with the
claim, some of which were shared with the building insurer (who had appointed the same
loss adjuster). For this he said it should pay £350 compensation. In respect of Ms Bs
allegations of damage to a china bowl and to a rug, he said these were new matters which
should be put to UKI.
UKI accepted the investigators findings. Ms B didnt accept them and pointed out that she
was still receiving hospital treatment for her injury. She also said that she hadnt received the
payment offered, just a cheque for a lesser sum which she declined to accept. She also
hadnt received any payment for the other damaged items.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that UKI should reconsider its payment for the 
items for which it had offered settlement. I also said it should reconsider other items and the 
crack in the driveway and the damage to the concrete post.
UKI disagreed that it should be liable for the damage to the drive and concrete post. It had 
only been sent a close up picture of the crack in the drive, and online maps showed the drive 
to have been weathering as far back as 7 years before the claim. It said Ms B hadnt 
submitted any evidence of the damage to the concrete post. It also said Ms B had never 
provided photographic evidence of the damage to the other items.
Ms B says she has provided photos of the damaged items and of the BER items. She has 
sent through further copies of photos including some of her BER items. She says the loss 
adjuster came out and photographed all the items. She reiterated all her points of complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
claim for damage to contents
I have considered first of all the offer of settlement of £2,066. In its offer of settlement the
loss adjuster said the offer reflects not the replacement cost of the items but value.
Should you wish for any items to be replaced, we can discuss and agree this.
With regard to claims settlement the terms of the policy say:
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
 replace or repair the item or part. pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have cost
to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
 make a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own
suppliers. If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available, we will pay the full cost
of the item, provided the sum insured is adequate.
I think these terms do not give UKI the option to pay the actual value of the items. It should
either pay the replacement cost of each item or replace the items. I think at this stage it
would be impractical to replace the items unless Ms B wants them replaced. It should
therefore reassess each item for which it has only paid its value, and pay either the
replacement value or replace any items Ms B wants replacing. For items where a
replacement isnt available, it should pay the full cost. Even the photos must have a
replacement value e.g. of reprinting. It will have to reassess these items  if Ms B has
evidence of their value it should take this into account.
As far as payment is concerned Ms B says shes only received one cheque which wasnt for
the full amount quoted. I would imagine this was because the excess was deducted.
Nevertheless Ms B doesnt appear to have cashed the cheque, so UKI should make
arrangements to cancel that cheque and send full payment in line with what Ive said above.
With regards to the items not on BER lists, Ms B sent full details of these to the loss
adjusters in her letter of 29 January 2019. I dont know if she sent photos as well. But it
appears to me that UKI wouldnt have taken any account of photos. This is because of its
assertion that Ms B cross-contaminated the items by removing wet items from the skip and
placing them in the pods. Ms B strenuously denies this and says she had no reason to do
this. Rather she says UKIs contractors put wet things in the pods. I cant assess who is right
in this respect. I do note however that Ms B lists several items of furniture, including
kitchen units which I think would be difficult to cross contaminate. She has also listed a
number of valuable books not included in the BER lists, and I would find it hard to believe
she would, if they were so valuable (and irreplaceable), put them with other wet items.
I think the items in Ms Bs lists that didnt appear on the BER lists need to be reassessed.
UKI should carry out a site visit, assuming the items are still there to be inspected. I should
emphasise however that it is for Ms B to prove her loss so if shes not satisfied with UKIs
valuation of any items she should be prepared to produce evidence of such value, e.g.
receipts or other evidence of purchase.
remaining items/disposal
Ms B later advised us that a china bowl was broken when she unpacked it, and an antique
doll was similarly damaged. She further said that an expensive rug was wrapped up for a
contractor to collect to restore. However when he unrolled it he said it wasnt restorable. She
had to pay to have this removed. She also had to pay for the remaining items that were
written off to be removed, despite UKI saying it would arrange this.
UKI says these matters werent mentioned by Ms B until she notified us of them in May
2021. Whilst I acknowledge that this could be a new complaint, Im not inclined to make it the
subject of such a new complaint, as UKI will be reconsidering other contents in light of this
decision. I also note that UKI have had longer than the eight weeks allowed to review such
matters, so I can include it in this complaint.
Ms B should send to UKI the details of the cost to her of removing the items, and UKI should
pay this. It should also reconsider the rug, china bowl and antique doll.concrete post
If this was damaged, it was by UKIs sub-contractor and as such its responsible for the
damage. I dont think it was fair simply to dismiss this as being a matter of public liability, not
covered by the policy. UKI should investigate this further, particularly as Ms B said the skip
driver said he would report it. It should pay for the damage if its satisfied the skip driver
caused it.
crack in driveway
Ms B says the heavy lorries caused a crack in her driveway. UKI says this was pre-existing
and that satellite images show the drive to be in a previously poor condition. I dont know
what images UKI has seen, as the only one online I can find isnt clear enough to show the
condition of the drive. I think again this was dismissed too quickly. There clearly is a crack in
the drive now and UKI should investigate this further, and if satisfied that the lorries caused
it pay for the damage.
damage to garage doors
Ms B said that the contractors broke the mechanism to her garage doors. She was unable to
get this repaired and had to pay for a new door. UKI says its contractors had video evidence
that the damage to garage door is pre-existing, they had also advised that Ms B had had the
doors removed prior to the buildings insurers arrival so theres a possibility they were
damaged during this.
I think theres insufficient evidence to show that UKI is responsible for this damage, so I dont
propose to ask UKI to take any further action.
personal injury
Ms B says she had been instructed to operate the machines left. A very heavy solid pewter
big dish on legs fell onto her foot. UKI says it isnt liable for this and in any event the drying
machines were placed there by the buildings insurer.
To be liable for this Ms B would need to show that UKIs contractors negligently left the bowl
in an unsafe position. If it happened while she was operating the dryer then that would be a
matter to put to the buildings insurer. On present evidence I cant find UKI to be responsible
for this.
compensation
There was some delay in this matter, and missed appointments. I dont think Ms B was given
clear enough information about the division in responsibility between UKI and the buildings
insurer, especially as the same loss adjusters were appointed by both. Having said that I do
understand that UKI had trouble getting in touch with Ms B about the removal of the pods.
I also dont think that UKI took Ms Bs assertions about further damaged items seriously,
dismissing them as being caused by her cross contaminating the items. I understand that
she isnt comfortable with computers or digital photos so would have had to get photos
printed. I dont think given its stance on the matter UKI would have considered her photos. I
think this caused Ms B further inconvenience and distress. Overall I think UKI should pay
compensation of £500.
I have considered both parties points in response to my provisional findings. I think with 
regard to the crack in the driveway, this clearly doesnt show in the online map photo. Ive seen the photos of the damage to the concrete post and though I cant say for certain this 
was shown to UKI before, as it is within the papers I think it likely that it (or its loss adjusters) 
did see it. In any event the point with these two matters is that UKI simply dismissed what 
Ms B said about them. It should reconsider these points and it will need to reinspect the 
drive and the post and carry out investigations with the skip driver.
With regard to the BER items, Ms B has sent a few photos of these, and though she is 
insistent that she has sent photos to UKI and that its loss adjuster took photos, I cant see 
any evidence that this was the case. But as I said in my provisional findings I dont think UKI 
acted reasonably in this respect. It had already recognised the need to come out and look at 
the items if Ms B wasnt able to supply photographic evidence and I think in light of her 
difficulties it should have done this. It should reassess the extra BER items and consider 
seriously whether it should be making a payment for them, bearing in mind my comments 
about cross contamination which I repeat here:
I do note however that Ms B lists several items of furniture, including
kitchen units which I think would be difficult to cross contaminate. She has also listed a
number of valuable books not included in the BER lists, and I would find it hard to believe
she would, if they were so valuable (and irreplaceable), put them with other wet items.
I have reconsidered matters in light of the parties further comments but I dont see any 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. Those findings are now final and form part of 
this final decision.
Putting things right
UKI should:
in respect of the settlement, reassess the value of the items according to their
replacement cost and pay Ms B the difference between its original settlement and the
reassessed amount. It should arrange to cancel the original cheque it sent Ms B and
include it in the settlement.
reconsider the items in Ms Bs lists, not already dealt with in its BER lists.
reconsider the china bowl, antique doll, and rug.
pay Ms Bs costs for removing the items written off.
reconsider its liability for the damage to the concrete post and the driveway.
pay Ms B £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited trading as Prudential Home
Insurance UKI to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman