DRN-2808281
The complaint
Mr W complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a claim he 
made on his ten-year building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr W reported cracking at his property in year six of the policy. During years 3-10, section 3 
of the policy applies. Section 3 covers physical damage if its been caused by a defect in 
certain parts of the property. The policy defines a defect as a breach of any mandatory 
NHBC Requirement by the builder. The terms also require the repair costs to meet the 
minimum claim value, for the claim to succeed.
NHBCs investigator visited the property and considered a section 3 claim. Two items were 
considered: cracking to the render on the front elevation, and gaps/cracks in multiple first 
floor rooms. The investigator made the following observations, and declined the claim:
- There are vertical cracks in the render commensurate with thermal shrinkage, which 
isnt covered by the policy. These cracks were tested and all but one, showed no 
signs of debonding.
- A crack above a window showed very minor signs of debonding. The render around 
a window should ideally have a mesh embedded to reduce the risk of cracking. The 
use of a mesh cant be verified without removing the render; and removing firmly 
bonded render isnt recommended as it can damage the blockwork. The cost of 
repairing this crack wouldnt reach the minimum claim value.
- A small section of render is also coming away next to a window. The mastic around 
the timber detail, at the head of the window, has failed. This has allowed water to 
ingress behind the render, which is coming away due to the water freezing and 
thawing. The mastic seal is part of the window installation, and windows arent 
covered under section 3.
- The ceiling plaster tape on the first floor has rippled and started to come away. 
Theres also a hairline crack below the window in a bedroom. The damage is 
commensurate with thermal movement. 
Mr W didnt consider the timber around the windows to be part of the window installation. He 
said this feature was added by the builder after the windows had been installed. He pointed 
towards external cladding being covered under section 3.
NHBCs investigator maintained that the timber surrounds are considered part of the window 
installation. He noted the timber is set directly on to the wall, unlike cladding which is set on 
a carrier system with ventilation. He also said if the timber surrounds had shrunk, leaving 
gaps between the timber and render, then this issue should be attended to as part of the 
normal routine maintenance.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought NHBC had fairly 
declined the claim. Mr W disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it, theres four issues for me to consider: the vertical render cracking across 
the front elevation; the failed sealant at the top of one timber header, which is causing a 
small section of render to come away; the gaps between the timber surrounds and the 
render; and the internal gaps/cracks in the first floor rooms.
NHBCs investigator concluded the render cracking had been caused by thermal movement. 
NHBC has also sought the opinion of one of its engineers. He concluded that the pattern of 
the cracking is consistent with thermal movement, and differential movement between the 
blockwork underneath the render and a feature brick course. His conclusion assumed the 
cracks continue into the blockwork. The engineer noted this type of cracking wasnt 
considered structurally significant and doesnt impair structural performance. 
Section 3 excludes:
anything related to:
a) shrinkage, thermal movement or movement between different types of materials;
b) cosmetic damage such as minor cracking which does not impair the structural 
stability or weather tightness of your Home.
The expert opinion Ive seen all points towards the render cracks being caused by thermal or 
differential movement. As noted, damage caused by such movement is excluded by the 
policy. Mr W hasnt provided an alternative expert opinion, or anything that leads me to 
believe the cracking has been caused by something else.
The engineers conclusions assumed that the render cracks had been caused by cracking in 
the blockwork underneath. He said further tests would need to be completed to confirm if his 
assumption is correct. However, NHBC says that even if the cracking is limited to the render, 
and this hasnt been caused by movement within the masonry units, the policy still excludes 
cosmetic damage such as minor cracking. Ive not seen anything that suggests the render 
cracking is, at this stage, impairing structural stability or weather tightness. So, overall, 
I dont consider NHBC needs to undertake further testing to confirm the engineers 
assumption about the render cracks continuing into the blockwork.
In terms of the crack that shows very minor signs of debonding, the engineer didnt believe 
the issue was the omittance of a mesh. However, even if a mesh had been omitted, and this 
crack goes beyond the excluded cosmetic damage, NHBCs investigator concluded that the 
appropriate remedial action was a localised repair. I havent seen anything that contradicts 
this conclusion, and NHBC has demonstrated a localised repair would fall under the 
minimum claim value.Mr W says that all the render cracks fall under faulty material preparation and workmanship, 
and the total repairs would exceed the minimum claim value. However, as explained above, 
Im not persuaded the render cracking is covered. Furthermore, Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me more than localised crack repairs are required to resolve the issues and to 
prevent further damage. NHBC has noted that if its schedule of works was extended to 
completing localised repairs across all the cracks, the cost of the work comes to £702, 
compared to the £1,578 minimum claim value. So, the repairs wouldnt meet this 
requirement either.
Ill turn now to the timber surrounds. In my view, the opposing arguments about whether they 
ought to be considered part of the window installation both have merit. However, Im not 
persuaded those arguments really matter here. Ill explain why.
The timber headers (above the windows) are sealed where they meet the render, and part of 
the sealant around one header has failed, causing some of the render to come away. NHBC 
says failing sealant, after six years, is a maintenance issue and not a defect. NHBC points 
towards wear and tear, and maintenance, being excluded by the policy. Im satisfied that 
NHBCs conclusions are reasonable here. Ive not seen anything that persuades me the 
failed sealant or the workmanship in this area are a defect  or in any event, that the 
minimum claim value would be met in respect of the necessary repair.
The timber surrounds, next to the left and right edges of the windows, arent sealed where 
they meet the render. I understand Mr W is concerned about the gaps. However, Ive not 
seen anything that leads me to believe this is a defect, or that physical damage is being 
caused. As such, its not something thats covered.
To be clear, Ive also not seen a link between the timber surrounds and the vertical cracking 
to the render.
Finally, I havent seen Mr W has challenged NHBCs findings on the internal damage, but Ill 
cover this item for completeness. Mr W hasnt provided anything that persuades me the 
ceiling gaps and internal wall crack arent due to thermal movement. As such, I accept 
NHBCs conclusions on this point, and such damage is excluded by the policy terms. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman