DRN-3711067
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle Financial Services Limited (OFSL). 
What happened
In January 2022 Miss M acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with OFSL. 
The car was registered on in September 2014, which means it was about seven years old 
and had travelled around 68,350 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car 
was £14,600. Miss M paid a deposit of £1,000. So, the total amount financed on this 
agreement was £13,600 payable over 60 months.
Miss M says the day after acquiring her car she noticed a warning light on the dashboard so 
contacted the dealer to report the issue. Miss M said the dealer collected the car in February 
and returned it after a few days, advising Miss M that she could still use the car but that the 
Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve needed to be replaced and would do so once they 
had one in stock. Miss M said shes had to go back and forth with the dealer trying to sort the 
matter out, so raised a complaint with them. 
Miss M says to resolve the matter shed like to have all the repairs carried out and a 
reimbursement of the VAT receipt, or to return the car and have all her monthly repayments 
refunded; or to have a replacement car of the same make but a newer model.
In May 2022 OFSL issued their final response to Miss Ms complaint which they upheld. 
OFSL said Miss M complained to them in March 2022 as she wanted her car repaired. OFSL 
said they arranged an independent inspection of Miss Ms car where an issue with the 
battery and rear wash wiper was identified. OFSL said they asked Miss M to get a quote for 
the parts, but she believed there was another issue with the car. OFSL said Miss M arranged 
for her car to be inspected by a manufacturer dealer, and that they were happy to review the 
findings of the inspection.
Unhappy with their response, Miss M brought her complaint to our service for investigation. 
In June 2022, OFSL told our investigator that Miss M raised a further complaint about the 
Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) which they were investigating. They also advised in July 2022 
that they were unable to get hold of Miss M and were offering her £175 per week towards 
car hire.
In July 2022 Miss M told our investigator that the manufacturer dealer inspected the car and 
found an issue with the EGR valve. Miss M said OFSL asked for another inspection to be 
carried out on the car, which she declined as she believed the problem was already 
apparent and still hadnt received a reimbursement for the manufacturers report.
Having considered all of the evidence, our investigator said that OFSL had acted fairly in 
their resolution to Miss Ms complaint, so didnt recommend that they do anything more. Miss 
M disagreed with our investigators view and provided a text message from the dealer dated 
February 2022 stating there was an issue with the EGR valve. Our investigator looked into 
the matter again, but their view hadnt changed as he found there was not enough evidence 
to say that the EGR valve was faulty at the point of supply.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Miss M asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. OFSL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that OFSL supplied Miss M with a used car that had travelled 68,350 
miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level 
of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear due to its usage. 
From the information provided Im persuaded that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from the independent report which confirmed the battery and rear wiper required 
replacing. Having considered the car had a fault and from the evidence Ive seen, Im of the 
opinion that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Both parties are in agreement that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
The basis of Miss Ms complaint is about the quality of her car and OFSL has confirmed the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality in their final response. So, what appears to be in dispute are 
the reasons why the car isnt of satisfactory quality. 
Miss M says that in addition to the battery and rear wiper the EGR valve was also faulty. 
Miss M provided a copy of a text she received from the dealer which she says confirms that 
the EGR valve was faulty and needed to be replaced. Miss M believes the text from the 
dealer is in support of the invoice from the manufacturer dealer that the EGR valve needed 
to be replaced. Having considered all the evidence provided Im not persuaded the EGR valve was faulty 
when the car was supplied to Miss M.
Miss M provided an estimate and invoice from the cars manufacturer dealer. The invoice 
noted that the vehicle had no power. This is consistent with the findings of the independent 
report. The manufacturer repair estimate itemised the costs for a replacement battery, rear 
wiper motor and EGR valve.  However, Ive seen evidence from a professional that the 
battery and rear wiper required rectification, Ive seen nothing similar to confirm any issue 
exists with the EGR valve.  
Miss M referred our investigator to a text message she received in February 2022 advising 
that the car needed an ECG valve, and although I think its likely, in the circumstances that 
the message was actually referring to an EGR valve, the text message offers no further 
diagnostic information about the part. For example, the components current condition and 
why a replacement is needed. The independent report, carried out three months after the 
text message was sent, identified no underlying mechanical failure and found the engine 
performance to be normal during a full road test. 
A faulty EGR valve can have various symptoms which can include loss of performance, 
knocking sounds and engine stalling while idling. None of these were noted during the 
independent inspection. In addition I note the car had travelled around 4,000 miles in just 
under four months since Miss M acquired the car up to the inspection date, which persuades 
me further that it was not an issue that rendered the car of unsatisfactory quality. I think its 
likely any issue would have worsened over the distance travelled and would be more likely to 
show itself on closer inspection.
All things considered, Im of the opinion that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality for the 
issues noted on the independent inspection report. However, Im satisfied with OFSLs 
resolution.
In November 2022, OFSL provided our investigator with a screenshot of two payments they 
made to Miss M. The payments were £150 for the cost of the manufacturers estimate and 
£751.74 to cover the cost of the battery and rear wiper. Having reviewed the payments, Im 
satisfied theyre consistent with the manufacturers estimate of repair and estimate charge 
provided by Miss M, and I think this is fair in the circumstances.
The independent inspection report advised the issues identified were considered minor. So, 
Im not persuaded that any compensation is required in the circumstances. For example, Ive 
not seen any evidence that the car wasnt driveable, or that its performance was 
considerably impaired, or that Miss M experienced considerable distress or inconvenience 
as a result.
My final decision
To settle the complaint Oodle Financial Services Limited has paid Miss M £751 to cover the 
cost to replace the cars battery and rectify the rear wiper issue, and has reimbursed Miss M 
£150 for the cost of the manufacturers estimate. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, Im not going to ask Oodle Financial Services Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman