DRN-3714416
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited declined his unemployment claim.
What happened
Mr B held an insurance policy with Fairmead Insurance Limited. The policy provided cover in 
the event of his unemployment. 
In April 2019 Mr B was dismissed by his employer so he submitted a claim to Fairmead.
Fairmead declined the claim. It said Mr B had been dismissed due to a disciplinary matter, 
and the policy benefits would only become available to him if an employment tribunal 
decided the decision to dismiss him on disciplinary grounds was unfair.
Mr B complained. He told Fairmead he hadnt been dismissed due to a disciplinary matter.  
He said his unemployment was due to a disagreement between himself and the companys 
Board of Directors. He told Fairmead a claim had been submitted to an employment tribunal 
but ultimately, hed reached a settlement agreement with his employer, so the tribunal claim 
had been withdrawn.
Fairmeads position remained unchanged and so Mr B complained to this Service. He would 
like Fairmead to accept his claim, award him interest and to compensate him for the distress 
hes experienced. He also wants Fairmead to agree to pay his legal fees.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
Fairmead could rely on the exclusion in the policy to decline the claim.
As Mr B remains unhappy, the case has passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr Bs policy with Fairmead as they form the basis of 
the contract entered into by the parties.
Ive also considered the obligations placed on Fairmead by the regulator, The Financial 
Conduct Authority, to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably decline a 
claim. 
My role in these circumstances is not to decide if Mr B was dismissed due to disciplinary 
matters. Its to decide if, based on the information available to Fairmead, it acted reasonably 
when repudiating his claim. And I think it has. Let me explain.
Mr Bs policy carries a specific exclusion relating to claims due to unemployment. The policy 
terms show Fairmead wont pay benefit where  
Your unemployment is due to disciplinary action by your employer, except where an 
employment tribunal has decided that such a decision was unfair, unless the tribunal 
decision was based on a procedural matter
Mr Bs case wasnt considered by an Employment tribunal, so Ive considered the 
information about Mr Bs dismissal to decide if its fair and reasonable for Fairmead to 
consider his dismissal resulted from a disciplinary matter.  
The evidence includes:
Information from Mr Bs employer which shows his contract was terminated with 
immediate effect due to a loss of trust and confidence in his ability to manage the 
company, which was fundamental to his role.
A copy of a grievance letter Mr B sent to his employer, from April 2019, which 
includes reference to an investigation being conducted by his employer, which 
recommended disciplinary action be taken against him on the grounds of gross 
misconduct. Whilst Mr B clearly disagrees with the position taken by his employer, 
this letter shows disciplinary matters were discussed at the meetings he attended.
A prospects of success assessment from a solicitor about making an employment 
tribunal claim. The assessment refers to his employer giving Mr B two options for 
leaving the company - by settlement agreement or be dismissed for gross 
misconduct. The solicitor went on to say he thought the prospects of making a 
successful claim were greater than 50%. But the assessment appears to focus on 
potential inconsistencies in the employers reasons for the dismissal, and whether the 
employer followed due process.
Mr Bs payslip from July 2021 is heavily redacted and although its clear Mr B 
received some form of compensation from his employer, the specific details are 
unclear. A letter from his tax adviser says I feel the payment.should therefore be 
treated as compensation for injury to feelings and not connected with the termination 
of his employment. This is clearly important for his tax affairs but doesnt provide any 
further insight into the nature of his dismissal.
When submitting a claim to his insurer, the onus is on Mr B to show he has a valid claim. 
Based on the information presented, I dont think its unreasonable for Fairmead to conclude 
that his unemployment was related to disciplinary matters, regardless of whether a 
settlement agreement was reached.  And because an employment tribunal hasnt decided to 
overturn the reason for his dismissal, I think Fairmead can fairly rely on the exclusion to 
decline his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman