DRN-2003258
The complaint
Ms P and the representatives of the estate of her late husband Mr P complain that National 
Westminster Bank Plc wont let her extend the term of her interest only mortgage.
What happened
In 2008 Mr and Ms P took out an interest only mortgage with NatWest over a term of six 
years. In 2014, when the term ended Mr P told NatWest he intended to sell some shares to 
repay the balance. On that basis, NatWest extended the term for a year.
Mr P sadly passed away in September 2015. NatWest agreed a number of term extensions 
to allow Ms P time to sell the shares, up until February 2020.
In late 2019, Ms P told NatWest that she hadnt been able to sell the shares. She asked for a 
further extension and for NatWest to switch the mortgage to a new fixed rate product as it 
would revert to the standard variable rate (SVR) from February 2020. NatWest declined the 
extension. Ms P considers that its decision wasnt fair.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that he didnt think 
another term extension would be in Ms Ps best interests. He said that there was no 
timescale when the shares could be sold and he didnt consider the sale of the shares was a 
viable strategy to repay the mortgage.
Ms P didnt accept what the investigator said. She made a number of points, including:
She owns shares worth considerably more than the outstanding balance of the 
mortgage. The sale of the company has been delayed because of Covid-19. But the 
companys prospects are good.
The company intends to sell an asset, which would produce a return for shareholders  
although that wouldnt be enough to repay the full balance.
She is keen to repay the mortgage when she has the funds to do so  and has never 
indicated that she would or could not do so.
She has never defaulted on interest payments and is seeking paid employment.
She lost her husband over five years ago  that had a huge impact on her and her 
daughters financial circumstances and mental wellbeing. This wasnt addressed by the 
investigator.
Covid-19 has affected her ability to generate income and remain positive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant imagine how hard it must have been for Ms P and her daughter over the past few 
years. I acknowledge everything she has told us about how this matter has affected her and 
her daughter. I am sorry to hear of the difficult time she has been through  and I accept that 
the prospect of losing the family home will only have added to that.
I also accept that Ms P hasnt defaulted on the interest payments and intends to repay the 
mortgage once she has the means to do so. There is no suggestion that she doesnt want to 
repay it. Rather it was a tragic change in circumstances which meant things havent turned 
out as planned. So while Ms P entered into a contract with NatWest to repay the balance by 
2014, it should understand that borrowers circumstances can change. It has an obligation to 
treat borrowers fairly. As part of that, when a borrower cant repay a mortgage as agreed, 
NatWest ought to consider the borrowers circumstances and consider whether there is any 
assistance or changes to the mortgage it should offer them that would be in their best 
interests.
I think that NatWest treated Ms P fairly in agreeing the extensions it did. It is the decision not 
to agree an extension or change of interest rate product from February 2020 that is in 
dispute. 
Ive looked closely at what Ms P has told us about her circumstances and the information 
that was available to NatWest. Having done so, I dont consider that NatWest has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by not agreeing a term extension or rate switch. I say this for two 
main reasons:
While there is a plan in place that might mean Ms P can sell the shares, we dont have 
sufficient evidence to support the valuation or timescale for the sale. I appreciate that Ms 
P feels that the shares offer sufficient security to NatWest. But it has relied on similar 
assurances in the past. I dont consider the evidence we have supports that the shares 
will definitely be sold within a year for the amount needed. It is not in Ms Ps best interest 
for the mortgage to continue indefinitely.
Ms P cant show that the mortgage is affordable over an extended term.
The term ended in 2014 and a number of extensions have been granted since  usually 
based on assurances that the shares would be sold by the end of the extended term. In view 
of that and the reasons I have set out above, I dont consider that NatWests decision not to 
agree a further extension was unfair. I consider it was reasonable for NatWest to consider 
that the sale of the shares wasnt an acceptable repayment strategy.
NatWest has also shown that it didnt offer any one-year fixed rate products or any variable 
rates other than the one Ms P was on. So even if it did extend the term, its unlikely there 
would have been a suitable product.
Overall, I dont consider the decision made by NatWest is unfair. I would encourage Ms P to 
maintain a dialogue with NatWest about her plans and circumstances. If they do change, 
NatWest should consider whether that changes anything. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P on her behalf 
and Mr D and Ms P on behalf of the estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 24 
August 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman