DRN-3062725
The complaint
Mr A complains that transactions were carried out from his Lloyds Bank PLC account which 
he didnt authorise. And hed like them refunded. 
What happened
Mr A has both a current account and a savings account with Lloyds.
 
Mr A advises that hes spent large periods of time in hospital in late 2019 and early 2020, 
and during this time a fraudster must have gained access to his card to carry out some 
disputed transactions. In total Mr A is disputing almost £12,000 withdrawn from his savings 
account between the 31 October 2019 and the end of March 2020.
 
Mr A complained to Lloyds  however they didnt uphold his complaint. In summary they 
thought it more likely than not Mr A carried out the disputed transactions. They thought this 
because:
Mr A was known to the bank branches where the transactions had been carried out
A fraudster would have needed access to Mr As card and PIN
The pattern of spending was similar to Mr As previous activity
Mr A was an outpatient at the time so was able to carry out the transactions
As Lloyds didnt uphold Mr As complaint he brought it to our service.
One of our investigators looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. 
Mr A explained to our investigator that he couldnt trust people who he lived with  so he had 
to protect his security details from them. And hed previously been at a cash point when a 
group of people surrounded him and observed his PIN. He thinks this is when his PIN might 
have been compromised. 
Overall, our investigator thought on balance Mr A likely carried out the transactions. She 
thought this because the transactions were carried out at branches near Mr As home and 
some of the disputed transactions were transfers between his accounts which a fraudster 
wouldnt benefit from.  
Mr A didnt accept our investigators conclusion and asked for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Payment Service Regulations relevant to Mr As case say that Lloyds are entitled to hold 
Mr A liable if the evidence suggests its more likely than not he consented to the transactions 
being made. 
From what Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that Mr A 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would have needed access to 
Mr As card and PIN. Mr As provided a few explanations for how he thinks this may 
have occurred, including a group of people who surrounded him at an ATM and saw 
him input his PIN and took his card. However Mr A explained that after this happened 
he advised Lloyds his card had been stolen on the same day. I think its likely if this 
occurred as Mr A says Lloyds would have cancelled Mr As card  and I can see 
evidence from Lloyds that Mr As card was reported lost and replaced on more than 
one occasion during 2019. If this was the case the fraudsters wouldnt have had 
access to an active card to carry out any disputed transactions. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr As card was cancelled and replaced on three occasions 
during the period the disputed transactions were completed. For a fraudster to have 
carried out the disputed transactions theyd have needed to intercept Mr As card on 
three separate occasions without his knowledge  this seems unlikely.   
Ive looked at the pattern of transactions on Mr As savings account  and it doesnt 
fit a pattern Id expect of a fraudster. I say this because Mr As account wasnt 
accessed every day, in fact on occasions there were long gaps between disputed 
transactions for example between the 13 December 2019 and the 
27 December 2019. Id also expect a fraudster to attempt to withdraw larger amounts 
than they did  a number of the transactions Mr As disputing were for £50. 
A large number of the transactions Mr A has reported as fraudulent were transactions 
completed in branch. Mr As explained he was in hospital at the time however Ive not 
seen any evidence this is the case. Most of the transactions were carried out at three 
different branches, all of which are close to his home address and where hes carried 
out genuine transactions. 
Ive looked at Mr As account activity prior to the disputed transactions and Im 
satisfied theres no significant change in the way the account was managed. 
Although there are large transactions carried out for £1,500 which Mr A disputes, 
there were also genuine transactions of this size carried out prior to October 2019. 
Some of the transactions which Mr A disputes were transfers carried out between his 
savings and current account. I cant see why a fraudster would transfer funds in this 
way. 
I understand this will disappoint Mr A but for the reasons Ive outlined above I think its likely 
Mr A carried out the disputed transactions. And likely forgot he did so. It follows that I wont 
be asking Lloyds to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jeff BurchOmbudsman