DRN-3572400
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Domestic and General Insurance Plc (D&G) provided an unsuitable 
cooker hood following a claim she made on her warranty insurance.
What happened
In July 2021, D&Gs engineer couldnt fix Mrs Ks cooker hood. D&G agreed to replace it and 
says it sent Mrs K links to an online list of cooker hoods from which she could select a 
replacement. 
Mrs K contacted D&Gs Product Replacement Team to check whether the cooker hoods on 
the list would - like her broken one - connect to her outside wall, extracting smells to her 
garden.
D&Gs call handler discussed the colour of the replacement hood with Mrs K and gave her a 
specific make and model of a cooker hood from its list that extracted to the outside. The call 
handler said that once Mrs K was happy, she could place the order for the hood herself, 
which she did.
On 24 December 2021, Mrs K contacted D&G because the cooker hood it sent had a vent at 
the top and not the back.  She said her ceilings were too low to install the hood because it 
would need a hose connected to the top of it.  D&G said that because the hood had been 
delivered in August 2021, itd been too long since its delivery for D&G to be able to do 
anything to help Mrs K. Mrs K said shed been incorrectly advised by D&G and complained.
 
D&Gs final response letter (FRL) to Mrs Ks complaint said shed been provided with a link 
that had the full manufacturers specification for the items on it. And shed been provided 
with all the information during her call to D&G to allow her to make an informed decision 
before the order was placed.  D&G said it wouldnt order a replacement hood because the 
hood was delivered more than 28 days ago.
Mrs K was unhappy with this response. She said shed phoned the number on the link D&G 
provided because she was unsure of the hood she needed and that D&G had told her which 
one would be suitable. She said shed delayed installing the hood because of health 
problems related to Covid-19. Mrs K brought her complaint to us.
D&G told us that the hood Mrs K had ordered extracts to the outside and so meets the 
requirements Mrs K had made it aware of. It said it cant be held responsible for the style of 
Mrs Ks kitchen not lending itself to the installation of the cooker hood.  And that despite Mrs 
K saying shed only just been able to get the hood installed because of health problems 
related to Covid-19, shed allowed its engineer to visit her on 13 July 2021. 
Our investigator amended her initial view in response to D&Gs comments and no longer 
upheld Mrs Ks complaint. Mrs K didnt agree with the view and said the engineer that tried to 
fix the broken hood shouldve made a note of the one she had. She said she had no expert 
knowledge of cooker hoods and didnt feel it was her fault the wrong hood was sent to her. 
She said itd been difficult to get engineers out over the summer to install it.
Our investigator asked D&G about how its returns policy would have looked to Mrs K and 
how it explained the process for ordering replacement products to customers. D&G 
responded and our investigator didnt change her view. 
Mrs K asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said she hadnt known what to expect as 
shed never claimed before and had trusted that the agent had advised her of a suitable 
model. Mrs K said as well that she didnt know shed only have a limited time to return the 
hood.
 
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
Information provided to Mrs K by D&G
D&G told us it was unable to recreate the information that was on the link it sent to Mrs K. 
Instead, it sent a copy of the information it wouldve sent to someone wishing to replace their 
washing machine.
 
The information showed measurements and a picture of the front of the washing machine, 
but it wasnt possible to see any other information or other specifications, including how the 
appliance should be connected. 
If the information provided to Mrs K on cooker hoods was similar to that sent to customers 
about washing machines, I cant say on balance it wouldve provided enough information to 
allow Mrs K to establish whether or not the cooker hoods on offer would fit into her existing 
fittings by venting through the back with no need for a hose.
 
Also, the call handler during the call, appeared to struggle to find the information about 
whether a particular cooker hood extracted externally.
So I dont think its reasonable to say that Mrs K should have known that the product was 
unsuitable for her based on the information provided to her by D&G. 
Contact with D&G
Mrs K said that, during her call to the product replacement team, shed told D&G that the 
hood needed to have an opening at the back and asked which hood would be the same as 
the one she had. But I didnt hear Mrs K making these points when I listened to the call 
recording. But Mrs K did ask whether the cooker hood would connect to outside wall and 
extract to her garden. And D&G said the hood it sent to her did connect to the outside wall. 
But it was through a hose coming out of the top of it.
But Mrs K is not an expert on cooker hoods. So its reasonable to think that she wouldnt be 
aware of all the different ways cooker hoods can connect to outside walls  either though 
hoses or otherwise. I think its reasonable for her to have assumed that - by calling a product 
replacement helpline - shed be speaking to someone more expert than her about cooker 
hoods who could help her. I think its reasonable to think then that a member of that team 
would be aware of the different ways cooker hoods can be connected. And would ask a customer relevant questions to help them to establish how an existing but broken hood 
connected to the outside wall, so that the make and model of an appropriate cooker hood 
could be recommended. 
Mrs Ks responsibilities
Mrs Ks policy terms do not say its a consumers responsibility to ensure any replacement 
they select is suitable. 
D&G didnt show this service how its explanation of its product replacement process would 
appear to customers. It only provided a brief explanation of how the process worked. So I 
cant see that Mrs Ks responsibilities wouldve been pointed out to her as part of this 
process. And because D&G didnt provide a copy of the information provided in the link it 
sent Mrs K, I cant say that this information wouldve pointed out her responsibilities either. 
Finally, her responsibilities were not pointed out to her during any of her calls to D&G that 
Ive listened to. 
So I cant say it was reasonable for Mrs K to know it was her responsibility to make sure the 
product selected was suitable and so do more than she did to try to establish this.
Returns information
D&G said  that even though it couldnt recreate the link it sent to Mrs K  it wouldve 
included its returns policy. But because Ive not been able to access the link and see what 
information was actually given to Mrs K through it, I dont think I can say on balance that 
shed have received the returns information when she ordered the hood. Also, it wasnt 
pointed out in Mrs Ks policy terms or during any of her calls to D&G that she should check 
the product sent would fit her existing fittings within a certain timeframe. So I dont think it 
would be fair to say that Mrs K wouldve known this was something she needed to do, but 
didnt.
Also, the photo Mrs K sent this service of the box the appliance arrived in shows the same 
serial number that was given to her by D&Gs call handler. So I think its reasonable - given 
that shed discussed the hood with an expert at D&G and a specific hood had been 
recommended and sent  for her to assume that what shed been sent would be suitable. 
And so wasnt something shed need to check. 
So I dont think its unreasonable that Mrs K didnt check that the hood would fit her existing 
fittings within a specific timeframe.
Conclusion
Given all of the above, I dont think its fair or reasonable to say that its Mrs Ks fault that the 
cooker hood was unsuitable for her. Or that she should have taken steps earlier than she did 
to establish whether what was recommended to her by D&G was suitable for her. 
So Im minded to uphold Mrs Ks complaint by requiring D&G to supply a cooker hood that is 
a suitable replacement for her broken one  that is to say, one with a vent in a position 
appropriate for her existing fitting, which is of the dimensions of Mrs Ks broken hood. If this 
is something D&G cannot provide, it should send Mrs K a voucher worth enough to allow her 
to purchase a suitable hood, in full for herself. 
I am minded as well to award Mrs K £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her 
by D&G refusing to supply her with a cooker hood to replace the one it had sent because 
this meant shed had to spend time contacting D&G to pursue the matter and has been without a cooker hood since December 2021, when she found that the cooker hood wouldnt 
fit her existing fittings. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs K accepted my provisional decision, but said she shouldnt have to pay to return the 
unsuitable cooker hood to D&G.
D&G responded that:
the link it says it provided gave Mrs K access to suppliers websites, so all the 
information for the appliance -  including full specifications  wouldve been available 
for Mrs K to view;
its unable to go through every aspect of a replacement appliance. And because Mrs 
K had a specific requirement because of the design of her kitchen, she ought to take 
some responsibility for ensuring the cooker hood suited her requirements; and
its returns policy is a standard part of the link it says it sent Mrs K and it cannot be 
removed, so Mrs K wouldve received it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses both parties to my provisional decision. 
My provisional decision said that Mrs K should receive a replacement cooker hood or 
vouchers. My provisional decision didnt say that this award would be dependent on whether 
Mrs K returned the cooker hood. D&G have since told this service that Mrs K doesnt need to 
return the unsuitable cooker hood, which I think is fair and reasonable.
When arriving at my provisional decision, Id already considered that D&G had said Mrs K 
wouldve seen a copy of its returns policy and wouldve been given enough information to 
make an informed decision about the cooker hood through the link it sent her. But I still 
havent seen the information that was actually contained in the link D&G says it sent. So still 
Im unable to say - on balance - that Mrs K wouldve received the returns information. Or that 
D&G gave her enough information to allow her to establish that the cooker hood would be 
suitable for her. 
In my provisional decision, Id said that Mrs Ks responsibilities werent pointed out to her by 
D&G. And that its reasonable for a member of D&Gs Product Replacement Team to have 
been aware of how different cooker hoods can be connected. So Im not persuaded to depart 
from my provisional finding on this by D&Gs response that Mrs Ks specific requirements 
should mean she ought to take some responsibility for the cooker hood being unsuitable.
So, for the reasons outlined above I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings 
and Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ks complaint in line with my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. I instruct Domestic and General Insurance Plc to either supply 
Mrs K:
with a cooker hood that connects to her existing fittings in the same way as her 
broken one; or a voucher of a value that is sufficient to allow Mrs K to purchase an appropriate 
cooker hood in full herself. 
I also intend to award Mrs K £150 for the distress and inconvenience Domestic and General 
Insurance Plc have caused her.
 
Domestic and General Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman