DRN-3958998
The complaint
Mr E complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
From at least May 2022, Mr E had a comprehensive motor policy with Admiral. It covered a 
car that I will refer to as his old car.
In mid-August 2022, Mr E bought another car. It had been made by a premium-brand car 
manufacturer with a large engine and first registered in 2012. Mr E bought it from a dealer 
franchised by the manufacturer. Mr E paid £28,250.00. As the claim and most of the 
complaint relates to that car, I will refer to it simply as the car.
Mr E added the car to the Admiral policy from about 18 August 2022. Admiral took the old 
car off the policy.
Any claim for damage to the car was subject to policy excesses totalling £950.00.
At Mr Es request, Admiral put the old car back on the policy. 
Unfortunately, on about 24 August 2022, Mr E and the car were involved in an accident. No 
other vehicle was involved. 
Admiral arranged for the car to be taken to a repairer.
On about 12 September 2022, Admiral said the car was a total loss.
By a letter dated mid-September 2022, Admiral set out the following figures:
Market Value: £23,270.00
Less Excess: £     950.00 
Less Vehicle Salvage Value: £10,238.80 
Net Settlement Figure: £12,081.20
Mr E didnt keep the damaged vehicle or suffer the salvage deduction of £10,238.80.
Admiral paid £22,320.00.
Mr E complained to Admiral about the valuation, conflicting information, telephone waiting 
times, having to chase for updates, lack of a courtesy car, lack of concern about injury and a 
mistake in relation to the old car.
By a final response dated late November 2022, Admiral upheld Mr Es complaints about 
telephone waiting times, having to chase for updates and the old car. Admiral said it was 
sending Mr E a cheque for £150.00 for distress and inconvenience plus £25.00 for delay in 
dealing with his complaint. Admiral turned down the complaint about valuation.
Mr E brought his complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that Admiral had acted in line within their policy terms by offering the value they had.
Mr E disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The dealer's business manager has given a statement explaining why the vehicle 
was valued as it was. 
The car had a full mechanical overhaul affecting its suspension, brakes and drivetrain 
as well as the wheels. 
Admiral had a changing opinion of the car.
They took a great length of time to reach a verdict.
He was unable to replace the car with a comparable car with the settlement Admiral 
provided. 
He has sent us links to advertisements for comparable cars.
To have lost nearly £5,000.00 on a car he owned for just 10 days is painful.
He does not accept that - in this case - the Glass' and CAP guides offer a correct 
valuation.
Many specialist cars are in the same situation. 
Car prices have exceeded book valuations even in the case of more normal cars for 
some time now. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Old Car
Admiral made a mistake in taking the old car off the policy on about 18 August 2022. I dont 
doubt that  when he found out  Mr E was troubled by the thought of what mightve 
happened.
But Admiral added the old car back onto the policy on about 21 August 2022 and waived the 
charge of £75.00. It said it wouldve met any claim that had arisen in the meantime, and I 
accept that.
The Accident
I dont under-estimate the accident and its effects on Mr E.
InjuryFrom Admirals records, Im satisfied that  when he rang  Admiral asked if Mr E had been 
injured and he said he hadnt.
I accept that he had issues later. But I dont consider that Admiral shouldve asked again 
about injury.
Total Loss
Admiral wrote a letter to Mr E dated 25 August 2022. It said it had authorised a repairer to 
repair the car  provided it was economical. I dont accept that Admiral gave conflicting 
information about that.
Im satisfied that Admiral got a repair estimate and reasonably decided that the car was a 
total loss.
Courtesy Car
As the car was a total loss,  Admiral didnt have to provide a courtesy car. 
Delay
Admiral got to a valuation within two or three weeks of the accident.
Nevertheless, from its file, Ive seen that there were times when Admiral was responsible for 
delay and lack of proactivity. So Mr E spent time on telephone calls trying to get progress or 
updates. His experience was that there was often a delay before his call was answered.
Valuation
We expect insurers to value used cars by reference to retail figures in certain trade guides. 
The guides are updated regularly. We generally find those guides persuasive as they are 
based on research of likely selling prices. 
We place less weight on advertisements as they contain asking prices that may be 
negotiated downwards.
I dont accept that selling prices generally exceed the retail figures in the trade guides.
Admirals policy terms said that it wouldnt pay any more than the market value of the car. 
Ive noted the make, model, age, specification, recorded mileage and condition of Mr Es car 
before the accident. I wont set out all the details in this final decision, lest they should tend 
to identify Mr E when we publish it online.
Ive noted that the recorded mileage was under 50,000. Ive also noted that the car had a 
good provenance and a full franchised dealer service history. I accept that the car had been 
overhauled and was in showroom condition when Mr E bought it from a franchised dealer. I 
accept that the car was a rare vehicle.
I accept that Mr E agreed to pay £28,250.00 for the car. Ive seen an email from the dealer 
headed market value. It sets out the selling points of the car. But it was in the dealers 
interest to justify the price.
Ive also noted that the policy schedule included the following:Modifications: Exterior decorative changes, Interior changes, Multimedia sync
Ive looked at the advertisements Mr E has sent us. 
Admiral got the following retail figures from trade guides:
Glass £23,270.00
Caps £22,600.00
Our investigator checked that these figures applied to Mr Es car.
In addition, the investigator got the following retail figure from another trade guide:
Cazoo    £21,620.00
Ive considered the evidence from Mr E and the dealer. However, I dont consider that its 
enough to show that all the trade guides are wrong about the car. 
Conclusion
Im satisfied that Admirals payments totalling £175.00 were fair compensation for the impact 
on Mr E of the shortcomings Ive identified above in relation to the old car, delay and 
telephone waiting times.
I dont find that Admiral treated Mr E unfairly by its valuation of £23,270.00.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to increase its valuation or to do any more 
in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman