The complaint
Mr W has complained about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limiteds (NFUM) handling of a claim on his light goods vehicle insurance policy.
Reference to NFUM includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ws vehicle was damaged in an accident. He claimed on his policy and NFUM arranged 
for one of its approved repairers to fix it. Mr W thought NFUM took too long to complete the 
repairs and said it didn't contribute towards the costs of his hire vehicle while the repairs 
were being completed. He complained to NFUM. 
NFUM acknowledged that it had taken longer than it would have liked to initially authorise 
repairs. So it paid Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
because of that. But otherwise it didn't think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
NFUM needed to take any further action. Mr W didn't agree so his complaint's been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ws made a number of points. But in this decision I will focus on 
what I see as the key issues at the heart of the complaint.
Did NFUM unreasonably delay completing the repairs?
Mr W needed his vehicle to efficiently run his business. And, while it was being repaired, he 
was forced to pay for a hired replacement. So I can understand how important it was to him 
that NFUM completed the repairs as quickly as it could. But, with the exception of a short 
delay before the repairs were authorised, I havent seen any evidence, beyond Mr Ws 
comments, that NFUM unreasonably delayed the repairs.
Its apparent the damage to Mr Ws vehicle was extensive and required a significant amount 
of work. And once the vehicle was stripped the mechanics identified further damage to the 
chassis which required more work, adding to the timeframe for repairs. Also, the repairers 
had to order replacement parts from the manufacturer, which had to come from overseas. 
DRN-1548264And that significantly added to the delays. Ive seen that Mr W himself tried to get hold of the 
parts to try and speed things up. This wasn't something he had to do, and I've seen that the 
repairers already had the parts on order. But in the end he couldn't source the parts any 
quicker either. And NFUM had no control over the delivery of the parts; so Im satisfied any 
delays associated with the arrival of those were beyond NFUMs control. As Ive said above 
given the importance of the vehicle to him, I can understand Mr W was frustrated by the 
length of time the repairs took. But, for the most part, I don't think there was anything NFUM 
could have done to speed the process up. 
That said NFUM did acknowledge a short delay before the repairs were authorised. And it 
paid Mr W £100 compensation to address that. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances 
as it's in line with awards we make in cases of similar seriousness.
Should NFUM have paid towards the costs of Mr Ws hire vehicle?
At the time of the accident Mr W didn't have a like for like replacement vehicle or loss of use 
cover on his policy. So, at that time, the policy only entitled him to a small hatchback type 
courtesy car while his vehicle was with NFUMs repairers. I understand the repairers did 
offer Mr W a courtesy car, but as it was too small for his business needs he didn't take it.
Instead Mr W asked NFUM if it would contribute towards the costs of his replacement hire 
vehicle. It appears Mr W thought NFUM might pay him what it would have cost it for the 
courtesy car, and he would then make up the rest of the cost for a more suitable hire car. 
I've seen that NFUM did say it would consider this. But Ive seen no persuasive evidence it 
gave Mr W any guarantee it would make a payment. And, having considered it, NFUM told 
him this wasn't something he was covered for. So it didn't pay any of his hire costs. 
It might help if I explain that, in a case like this, the courtesy car is provided by the repairer 
directly to the policyholder, under the terms of its contract with NFUM. So the repairer 
doesn't bill NFUM separately for the cost of the courtesy car. That means there's no direct 
cost to NFUM for the provision of a courtesy car. So as it wouldnt cost NFUM anything, 
there was no sum to offset against Mr Ws hire costs. And as the approved repairer did offer 
Mr W a courtesy car, which he declined, Mr W wasn't entitled to anything further under the 
terms of his policy. So I think NFUM acted reasonably when it refused to contribute towards 
Mr Ws hire car expenses.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
Joe Scott
Ombudsman