DRN-4220380
The complaint
Mr U complains about the outcome of a chargeback claim he made through Lloyds Bank 
PLC, who Ill call Lloyds.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr U, but I dont think Lloyds need to take any action here. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Lloyds, its administered by VISA, and they 
set the rules. Lloyds didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice 
for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
 
The VISA chargeback rules say that claims must be submitted within 120 days from the date 
the service was to be provided. Mr U made payments to the merchant on 13 and 14 June 
2022 so the deadline for submitting a chargeback was on 11 and 12 October 2022.
Lloyds swiftly submitted a chargeback claim on 22 June 2022 and they explained to Mr U 
that a temporary credit would be placed on his account for the disputed transactions. When 
the merchant defended the chargeback Lloyds have explained that they had limited time 
under the chargeback scheme to respond to that defence. They wrote to Mr U and asked 
him to supply evidence the money hadnt been paid to his account. But as they didnt receive 
that evidence until after the deadline VISA set for responses, they couldnt defend the claim 
any further and the money was re-debited from Mr Us account.
The VISA rules dont allow Lloyds to submit a claim again.
I think Lloyds were a little premature to raise a chargeback. They had until October to gather 
the relevant information and had they asked for further evidence from Mr U before they 
issued the claim, VISA may have been able to consider Mr Us account statement with the 
merchant, that he says shows no payments were received.
So, Ive thought about whether Lloyds actions caused Mr Us claim to fail and whether they 
were therefore unfair to him.
Im not persuaded thats the case. Mr U has provided a copy of his crypto currency 
statement with the merchant, but I dont think hes demonstrated that was the account the 
payments should have been made to. The statements show the balance of his account in 
August 2022, but they dont appear to show any account history, although I accept that may 
be because there wasnt any. I think on the basis of that limited evidence, that Mr Us 
chargeback claim would have failed even if that statement had been provided. I dont 
therefore think hes been inconvenienced by Lloyds actions, and I am not asking them to 
take any further action.
Whilst that may mean Mr U is unable to get a refund from Lloyds through the chargeback 
process, it doesnt prevent him from pursuing the matter with the merchant through the 
courts.
I understand that Mr U is also upset that Lloyds have chosen to close his overdrawn 
account. We cant insist that businesses suspend collection activity on accounts whilst 
complaints are in process, thats a decision for them to take. Nor can we consider a 
complaint that the business hasnt had an opportunity to consider. If Mr U remains unhappy 
about the way his account was closed hell therefore need to raise that complaint to Lloyds 
initially.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman