DRN-3872036
The complaint
Ms A complains about the settlement payment offered by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) following the theft of her car, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2021 Ms As car was stolen. She reported the theft to the police and to
Admiral. The car wasnt recovered and so Admiral offered a settlement payment for £4,596.
Ms A didnt think this was a true reflection of the value of the car. She also says the vintage
stereo hadnt been considered. So, she raised a complaint with the business.
Admiral says its engineer assessed the market value of the car to be £5,745. It adjusted this
valuation by 20% to reflect that the car had been a previous insurance write-off. There was
an error, which meant this reduction was applied twice. But Admiral has since refunded the
£919.20 it had deducted in error, plus 8% simple interest.
Ms A obtained a valuation from an independent engineer. He placed the market value at
£8,500 and didnt agree a deduction should be made for the previous write-off. Admiral didnt
agree to increase its offer, so Ms A referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He thought Admiral had taken a fair approach
to valuing Ms As car. He agreed it was reasonable for it to apply a deduction for the
previous write-off. He didnt think the advertised for sale prices provided by Ms A
demonstrated that Admirals market valuation was unfair.
Ms A didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Ms 
As complaint. Heres what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms A wants to get the best price she can for her car and that shes
disappointed with the valuation Admiral arrived at. Ive looked at her policy terms to
understand what is expected in these circumstances. I note Ms As comments that she paid
more for her car than Admiral is offering. But her policy provides the market value in the
case of a total loss, such as in this case when the car was stolen and not recovered.
The policy terms say:
Cover for your vehicle If your vehicle is lost or damaged as a result of fire, lightning, theft or
attempted theft, you will be covered for loss of or damage to:
- your vehicle
- your vehicles audio, visual or electronic equipment, as long as it is permanently fitted to
your vehicle. Equipment fitted by the manufacturer is covered in full. Aftermarket equipment
is covered up to £1,250 or the market value of your vehicle, whichever is lower.
And:
What we will pay We will decide how to settle your claim and will either pay:
- to repair your vehicle
- a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle.
Under the definitions section of the policy terms it says:
Market value The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year,
mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
We dont provide a valuation when considering these disputes but look to see whether the
insurers offer is reasonable. To understand whether a reasonable offer has been made, we
usually obtain valuations from the motor trade guides. These guides are used by the industry
for valuing second-hand vehicles. Unfortunately, as Ms As car is over 30 years old, its not
possible to obtain values from the usual guides.
I can see that Admiral obtained a valuation from an engineer who valued the car at £5,745. I
can see he used the correct make and model and a mileage figure of 90,319 miles. Ive also
read the valuation report Ms A obtained. The engineer calculated the mileage circa 90,000
miles. He refers to a classic car valuation guide that places similar vehicles at £8,000.
Although he suggests this is low as the market value has increased. I note the car
referenced by the engineer, from the classic car guide, has a larger engine than Ms As car.
In his report the engineer included details of the classification, used by the classic car guide
for this type of vehicle. For a car worth £8,000 it says:
#1 vehicles that are the best in the world. The visual image is of the best car, unmodified in
the right colours driving onto the lawn at the finest concours.
Ms As engineer supplied a number advertisements for similar cars. This includes a car
which is the same model and year, for £6,250  no mileage shown. One at £9,990 with
slightly higher mileage but a year younger. Two older models with much lower mileage for
£11,995 and £12,995 respectively. A 1992 model which is a higher specification advertised
at £13,285. A 1991 model with much lower mileage for sale at £10,500 and another 1990
model, with no mileage specified, advertised at £10,578.
Based on the advertised for sale prices Ms As engineer arrived at an average valuation of
£8,500.
I acknowledge Ms As comments that the adverts her engineer provided and those she has
provided herself, include similar cars for sale at a higher price than Admiral offered. I
understand she wants the best offer she can get for her car. But we dont generally rely on
advertised for sale prices. This is because they show what the seller hopes to get for the car
not what it actually sold for.
Ive looked online myself. The closest models I found were two similar 1990 cars each with
around 90,000 miles, for sale at £4,995 and £5,995. From the information Ive seen The for-
sale prices vary quite a lot.
In the circumstances, as the usual trade guides couldnt be used, I think the approachAdmiral took, to instruct an engineer to provide a valuation, was reasonable. But I must also
consider the valuation Ms A obtained from her engineer. Valuing cars, particularly older cars,
isnt an exact science. Where there are differing expert views of what the market value of the
car is, I think its reasonable that Admiral should pay the middle value between the two
valuations.
I accept Ms As reference to information on our website that says we may consider
advertisements in situations where a car is difficult to value, or its indicated the trade guides
could be wrong. I have given thought to the advertised prices. However, I think its fairer to
use the average of the two expert valuations, given the advertised prices vary significantly
and include varying models with different mileages.
We put this proposal to Ms A and to Admiral informally. Ms A disagreed based on the
advertised prices she has seen. She also comments that it isnt fair to apply a reduction in
value because her car had been written-off previously. Ive considered her further comments
around this point.
The fact that a vehicle has been written-off can put off potential buyers no matter how well
the car was repaired. Ms As car is showing as having been written-off, which I understand
has occurred twice in its lifetime. This information is recorded against the cars history and
can be checked.
I note Ms A says she wasnt aware of the car having been written-off. She says she wasnt
told about it by the seller or by Admiral. I cant comment on what the seller told her, but this
isnt something Admiral is responsible for. Im sorry Ms A wasnt aware the car had
previously been written-off. But our service considers it reasonable for an insurer to make a
reduction in its settlement offer to reflect the impact a vehicle being written-off has on its
market value.
I acknowledge Ms As reference to the information on our services website. Specifically, her
comments that if a customer was unaware of the vehicles history, were likely to tell the
insurer to pay the full market value. Id agree with Ms A if Id seen evidence that she had
carried out a check on the cars history before buying it. But I havent seen that she did this.
So, I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to apply a reduction of 20% in these
circumstances.
I note Ms As comments that Admiral didnt compensate her for the loss of the vintage
stereo. From what I understand this is the original radio/stereo that came with the car. I dont
think this is something that shouldve been considered separately from the market valuation
of the vehicle.
Having considered all of this I dont think Admiral offered Ms A a fair settlement payment. It
should now pay her £5,698 in total. This is the difference between the two valuations, minus
the deduction for the write-off and the policy excess. It should also pay interest on the
outstanding balance from the date the settlement was offered until its paid in full.
Admiral responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Ms A responded to say she paid £350 for an independent valuation and that this should be
refunded by Admiral. She also refers to the policy definition of market value. She says the
wording refers to similar not the same. She thinks this means the advertised examples
should be considered relevant regardless of being younger or having a larger engine.
Ms A also comments that it has been some time since she made her claim and queries
whether this has been considered.Ms A says she wasnt aware the car had previously been written-off, as no adverse history
was indicated at the point of sale.
I issue a second provisional decision in November 2022. Heres what I said:
Second provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Ms As request that the cost of the valuation she commissioned should be
refunded. Shes provided an invoice that shows £350 was paid for this information. In my
provisional decision I said I didnt think Admiral had offered a fair settlement payment. Ms A
had to obtain a valuation in order to demonstrate this point. In these circumstances I think its
fair that Admiral refunds this cost to Ms A.
Ive considered Ms As comments about the evidence provided in support of her valuers
conclusion. But Im satisfied a fair outcome is for Admiral to pay the middle value between
the two valuations provided.
I accept it has been some time since making her claim. This is why I said Admiral should
provide interest on the outstanding settlement payment. But I dont think a further payment
has been shown to be warranted.
Ms A comments about the discount applied for her car having previously been written off. In
my provisional decision I said there was no evidence that Ms A had carried out a check on
the cars history. This remains the case having considered her further comments and the
documents she provided. I acknowledge she read the for-sale advert and emailed the seller.
But I cant see that she obtained a report to ascertain the history of the car, including
whether or not it had been written-off.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and that Admiral should:
pay Ms A £5,698 as a total settlement payment. In addition to 8% simple interest on
any outstanding payment from when the original settlement was offered until its paid
in full.
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should also give
Ms A a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
pay Ms A £350 to refund the cost of the valuation report she obtained.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Admiral responded to say it needed to see proof of payment to refund the valuation report 
fee. 
Ms A provided a detailed response explaining why she doesnt think its fair that Admiral 
should apply a 20% discount to the valuation. In brief she says she relied on government 
guidance, available online, when buying her car. She says she checked the MOT history of 
the car and also asked a specialist garage to look at the cars history. Ms A says no issues 
were raised and the car was thought to be in very good condition. She also says the cars logbook didnt give any indication the car had been written off. 
Ms A says she has suffered a significant loss as a result of the theft of her car, which has 
also caused her stress. She maintains she was unaware of the cars accident history at the 
time of purchase and asks that Admiral should pay the full market value. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Admirals comments, I think its reasonable that it should be provided with 
proof of payment of the valuation report fee, prior to arranging reimbursement. 
Ive thought about Ms As comments about what she did prior to purchasing her car. 
I acknowledge that she relied on the guidance provided on the government website she 
accessed online, and her reference to the cars logbook. However, its still the case that 
when a car has been categorised as a total loss, this will impact negatively on its market 
value. Ms A says she approached a specialist garage and viewed documents via an online 
call with the seller. But I cant see that she carried out a check to confirm whether the car 
had been written off. 
Ms As policy pays the market value of her car in the event of its total loss or theft. As 
discussed here, and in my provisional decision, Its reasonable to consider a cars market 
value is impacted by its previous categorisation as a total loss. In these circumstances our 
service thinks its reasonable for an insurer to apply a discount to the valuation. So, I think 
the 20% discount applied by Admiral in this case is fair.
Im sorry that Ms As car was stolen. But I dont think Admiral acted unfairly by applying a 
discount to the market value, because of the cars history. Because of this Im not persuaded 
that I should change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decisions, I uphold Ms As 
complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:
pay Ms A £5,698 as a total settlement payment. In addition to 8% simple interest on
any outstanding payment from when the original settlement was offered until its paid
in full.
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should also give
Ms A a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
pay Ms A £350 to refund the cost of the valuation report she obtained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman