DRN-3726915
The complaint
J, a limited company, is represented here by Mr S. Mr S complains that Starling Bank 
Limited wont refund a transaction of £2,352 made from Js business account that he says 
was not authorised. 
What happened
Mr S says he received a phone call on 30 March 2022 that appeared to be from Starling. He 
didnt answer this call but had some concerns about its legitimacy and so he contacted 
Starling and checked Js business current account. Mr S says at this time he realised that a 
payment for £2,352 had just been made from Js business account using a mobile wallet 
service. He says he had not authorised this payment and asked Starling to stop it from 
debiting the account.
Starling was unable to stop the transaction form debiting the account. It then also looked into 
Mr Ss claim that the transaction was unauthorised. Starling declined to refund the money as 
it said there wasnt evidence to support that it was fraudulent. 
Mr S disagreed, so he referred Js complaint to us. Our Investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. As Mr S said he had not shared any security details, she didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show that Mr S, acting on behalf of J, had not authorised the disputed 
payment, as there was no plausible explanation for how the account had been 
compromised. So she thought the payment had most likely been authorised. 
Mr S disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the Investigator previously set out. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking J is 
responsible for any payments that were authorised and isnt responsible for unauthorised 
payments. So Ive considered whether or not the evidence shows that J authorised the 
payments. This is important because a customer will usually be liable for payments theyve 
authorised and, generally speaking, a bank will be liable for any unauthorised payments. 
In this instance, the disputed transaction was facilitated by a mobile wallet which had been 
set up on Js account the day the transaction was made. Mr S says he did not set this up 
himself. But having considered the evidence, Im satisfied the more likely explanation is that 
he authorised the use of the mobile wallet and therefore the subsequent transaction it was 
used to pay for. Ill explain why. 
Starlings systems show that when the mobile wallet was set up, this was only able to 
happen because the request to add it to Js account was approved via a PIN sent to the 
mobile number Starling held for Mr S. Starling has only ever had one mobile number on file 
for Mr S, the same number he is currently using, and so the text message with the PIN 
would have been sent to that number. Whoever set up the mobile wallet would also need to 
have had the card details for Js account.
So this payment could have only been made if Mr S had either set up the mobile wallet 
himself, or shared the card details and the PIN that was sent to his mobile device with 
someone else in order to facilitate it being set up on another device. Mr S has maintained 
that no one else had access to his device or card details. Hes suggested that his mobile 
may have been hacked. However, theres nothing to suggest that remote access was 
gained of his device, and theres seemingly no other explanation as to how Js card details 
came to be compromised. 
So, given Mr S didnt share his details or device with anyone else, the only plausible 
conclusion is that either Mr S set up the mobile wallet on Js account and made the 
transactions himself, or gave his details to somebody else, thereby giving his consent and 
authority for payments to be made on Js behalf. 
I understand that an old phone  an iPhone 7  was also linked to Js account, and that this 
was deactivated as a result of Mr Ss call to Starling on 30 March 2022. Mr S says he has 
never owned a phone of this model, but his correspondence with Starling suggests 
otherwise, and this phone had been linked to the account since 2020, several years before 
the disputed payment. In any case, Starling has confirmed that the PIN to authorise the 
mobile wallet was sent to Mr Ss current mobile number, and so to his current device. The 
fact that an old phone was still linked to Js account at the time of the payment doesnt 
change my findings that there is not enough evidence to support that a fraud has taken place 
here.
Mr S has also questioned whether we have investigated the business that the payment was 
made to, but thats not our role here. Our role is to determine whether Starling acted fairly in 
declining to refund the disputed payment, and as Ive explained, I consider that with the 
evidence it had seen, it was fair for Starling to refuse to refund this payment to J.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I wont be asking Starling to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman