DRN-3604376
The complaint
Mr C said Bamboo Limited irresponsibly lent to him when it provided a loan that was 
unaffordable.
What happened
Mr C was given a loan by Bamboo as follows:
Date taken Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly 
repaymentTotal payable Loan status
August 2020 24 £3,000 £196.31 £4,711.38 Paid in 
December 
2020
Mr C told Bamboo the loan was for home improvements.
When Mr C complained to Bamboo it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong so he 
brought his complaint to us.
Mr C mainly said that Bamboo didnt do proper affordability checks. He said the loan 
repayments took up a large proportion of his income when he was already struggling to pay 
other loans and credit cards. In addition, he said Bamboos affordability assessment didnt 
allow for the borrowing he needed to pay back to family and friends each month. He told us 
that when he applied for this loan he had been unemployed for 17 months when his only 
income had been from loans he had taken out. He said he took out this loan just after getting 
a new job in order to cover him until he received his first paycheck. He was also unhappy 
with the high interest rate he was charged on the loan. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint. He didnt think that Bamboo shouldve 
provided this loan. So our investigator upheld the complaint and set out the steps that he felt 
Bamboo needed to take to put things right.
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it mainly said that its 
checks had been proportionate and the information it saw supported its lending decision. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to 
satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without 
needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate check will depend on a number of factors  a 
lender should for instance consider, amongst other things, the borrowers particular 
circumstances (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications 
of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a borrower has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems or impact 
adversely on a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable 
way. 
I've kept all these things in mind when thinking about Mr Cs complaint.
Bamboo gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income and verified this using third party data that drew information from Mr Cs 
bank account. It briefly discussed Mr Cs financial situation with him during a phone call. 
Bamboo obtained a credit report to find out about Mr Cs credit history and relied on 
statistical information which indicated what the likely living expenses would be for someone 
in Mr Cs particular circumstances based on national UK averages. Mr C told Bamboo he 
didnt pay any rent or mortgage.
Mr Cs monthly take home pay was recorded as £2,683. After reviewing the information on 
the credit report it obtained and taking into account what it thought Mr C would likely need to 
spend, Bamboo worked out that Mr C should have a cash surplus each month of around 
£1,156. So Bamboo concluded that the monthly repayment for this loan shouldve been 
comfortably affordable and Mr C shouldve been able to sustain the repayments over the 
term  which seems to me a reasonable conclusion for Bamboo to have reached on these 
figures.  
In coming to my decision, I have thought carefully about whether it was reasonable for 
Bamboo to accept that Mr C didnt pay any rent without following this up to check when it 
also understood he was a private tenant  and in particular, whether it could safely assume this was always likely to be the case throughout the loan term. But as Bamboos affordability 
assessment suggested Mr C had so much spare cash each month I think Bamboo was 
reasonably able to be satisfied he could have paid his own housing costs if he needed to. So 
this doesnt affect my overall view of the complaint.   
I appreciate Mr C has said he was already in financial difficulty at the time this loan was 
provided to him and that it was unaffordable. But I dont think this is something Bamboo 
knew or ought to have known about at the time. Ill explain why I say this.
Even though Bamboo thought the figures it gathered showed the loan was affordable, it still 
needed to think carefully about Mr Cs overall financial situation. But I dont think it saw 
anything to suggest that Mr C was already over-reliant on using expensive credit or that the 
signs were that he was increasing his dependency on using credit to manage his financial 
situation.
In particular, although Bamboo saw from Mr Cs credit report that he had a relatively high 
level of debt, there was nothing adverse on his credit report that would have warranted 
further enquiry or refusing his loan application.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or even an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application if the loan otherwise 
looked affordable.
In Mr Cs case, although he had a high debt to income ratio, and a substantial credit balance 
owing, he still had unused credit available and he seemed to have managed this level of 
credit well. 
The credit history Bamboo saw revealed no evidence of any payment problems  all Mr Cs 
accounts appeared to be up to date and well-managed over the whole of the period reported 
on in the lenders credit checks. Sometimes Mr C made more than the minimum monthly 
repayment on his credit card which suggested at least some flexibility in his finances. It didnt 
look like he had ever been in arrears on any of his credit accounts. There was no sign that 
he had ever relied on payday lending  which mightve suggested he had urgently needed 
some extra cash and been an indication of money problems. 
Mr Cs search history suggested that he hadnt been regularly seeking additional credit to 
meet his day to day spending requirements. There was no record of any bankruptcy or 
county court judgement. His overdraft use was within the account limit and he didnt appear 
to be persistently stuck in overdraft. Bamboo saw that his overdraft limit was less than one 
month's net monthly income and noted that Mr C hadnt exceeded his limit during the 
previous eight months. In January, February, March and April 2020 his account didnt show 
any overdraft balance at all on the reporting date. 
 
So I dont think there was any particular sign that Mr Cs spending was out of control. His 
overdraft use suggests he was financially stretched from time to time  but I cant fairly say 
this showed evidence of serious financial difficulty as it didnt look like Mr C always needed 
to use it.  
Looked at overall, I dont think Bamboo saw enough to suggest that Mr Cs debt was out of 
control or that he was struggling to manage serious financial difficulty.
Although Mr C told us he hadnt been in work for some time when he applied for the loan, 
I dont think Bamboo can fairly be expected to have known that. I say this because Mr C 
provided details of his income and named his employer on the loan application. And when Bamboo asked Mr C during a phone call (which I've listened to) about his work history, he 
confirmed that he had been working throughout lockdown. Bamboo relied on third party data 
to verify Mr Cs income. 
Its fair to say that Bamboo could have done more in order to double check Mr Cs 
employment and income. But its important to remember that a lender isnt required to seek 
absolute proof of every detail of a borrowers finances  its obligation as a responsible lender 
is to carry out a proportionate check.
On balance, keeping in mind the amount that Mr C borrowed, the repayment amount and the 
loan term, and thinking about what its credit checks showed and the other information it had 
gathered, I think the checks Bamboo did were reasonable and proportionate in Mr Cs 
particular circumstances.
It was fair for Bamboo to decide Mr Cs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Bamboo 
to provide the loan as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest 
Mr C wouldnt be able to repay it in a sustainable way. To sum up, the loan appeared to be 
affordable looking at Mr Cs income and committed expenditure. And I dont think 
proportionate checks wouldve required Bamboo to probe any more deeply into Mr Cs 
finances or ask Mr C to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to 
verify what he had told Bamboo (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I accept that Mr Cs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided or the other information Bamboo obtained. But in order to uphold 
this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, I dont 
think that Bamboo did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr C. 
Having seen bank statements and other information provided by Mr C, it is apparent that he 
had savings elsewhere and private investment dealings which also produced some 
unearned income. This may partly explain why he was able to support this high level of 
credit without showing more evidence of financial distress. And I can see that he may have 
been receiving payments into his account from other individuals, but if this wasnt information 
he chose to share with Bamboo during the loan application process, I cant fairly say that 
Bamboo should have found it out through a proportionate check. To be clear, I dont 
consider that a proportionate check here would have required Bamboo to look at Mr Cs 
bank statements. 
So I cant reasonably conclude that Bamboo shouldnt have provided this loan.
Our investigator didnt think that Bamboo had acted towards Mr C in any other way that 
wasnt fair and reasonable. Mr C hasnt commented on that but Ive thought about this also 
as part of my independent review of his complaint. Taking everything into account, I think 
Mr C was aware he was taking a high cost loan on terms he seemed happy to agree to at 
the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint. Like our investigator, I have concluded that I havent seen anything which 
makes me think Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in any other way. 
So for these reasons, Im not planning on upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
I appreciate that my provisional decision will be disappointing for Mr C but I hope that setting 
things out as I've done helps explain how I've come to my conclusions. If Mr C is still 
struggling with debt and would like to talk to someone about his situation or get help to 
manage his finances theres more information about how to get free advice and assistance 
on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr C disagrees with what I've said in my provisional decision. 
To briefly sum up, he doesnt think that  overall Bamboos borrower-focused checks went 
far enough. He feels that if Bamboo had carried out adequate, reasonable and proportionate 
checks, it would have seen that he did not have a regular income and could not repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. 
Bamboo has told me it has no further comments.  
So I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure Mr C that Ive taken carefully into account all the information I've 
been able to see and everything thats been said, including his comments in response to my 
provisional decision. 
I am sincerely sorry that Mr C had a problem with debt. 
But what Mr C has told me isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint. 
Ive explained why, in my view, Bamboos checks went far enough for me to say that these 
were reasonable and proportionate in the particular circumstances here. And I dont think the 
results of those checks were enough to suggest to Bamboo that Mr Cs debt was out of 
control or that he was struggling to manage serious financial difficulty. 
It looked like he was managing his credit well, he appeared to still have ample spare cash to 
allow him to pay housing costs if his circumstances changed and the income verification 
Bamboo carried out reflected the information Mr C had provided in his application  so it had 
no particular reason to think this wasnt reliable information. I havent seen anything to make 
me think Mr C didnt understand the loan terms, including the interest he would be charged, 
when he signed up to the loan. Typically this type of loan is more expensive than 
mainstream lending to reflect the risk lenders take on when providing credit to borrowers 
with credit scores that can mean they are unable to obtain finance elsewhere. So what Mr C 
has said about the interest rate being high isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint.All in all, I cant fairly say that Bamboo made an unfair or irresponsible lending decision or 
that it ought to have known that this was the likely outcome of its lending decision. 
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman