DRN-3296170
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim they made 
on their home insurance policy, following damage caused by a water leak. 
Mr S has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr S got in touch with AXA in November 2020, after he discovered a water leak.
AXA accepted the claim and arranged for repairs to be carried out. They were 
completed in August 2021.
During the claim, Mr S raised a number of complaints. They included:
oDelays throughout the claim
oPoor workmanship and additional damage caused by AXAs contractors
oThe attitude, behaviour and service provided by AXAs agents
oA lack of updates and clarity about the progression of the claim
oDifficulties communicating with AXA and its agents
oItems lost in storage eventually found and returned
AXA accepted its service was below the expected standard. It apologised and offered 
compensation totalling £2,000.
Our investigator thought AXA had handled the claim poorly, but its offer of 
compensation was a reasonable one in the circumstances.
Mr S thought the impact of AXAs failings warranted a higher compensation payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt this claim has been handled very poorly  and this has had a significant 
impact on Mr S. AXA has accepted that and offered £2,000 compensation. The question for 
me is whether that offer reasonably reflects the avoidable distress and inconvenience Mr S 
has been caused.
Mr S suffers from an illness that restricts his mobility. He uses a stairlift to move between the 
floors of his house. The leak tripped the electrics, which meant the stairlift was unavailable 
for a period of time. The leak came from the wet room and, to put it right, the shower pod 
had to be removed and reinstated. This was the only washing facility and was also 
unavailable for a period of time.
AXA offered Mr S alternative accommodation, which was a reasonable thing to do. But his 
circumstances meant it would have been difficult to find somewhere appropriate quickly 
enough to have alleviated the problem. So he chose to remain at home.
Even if the claim had been handled perfectly, there would inevitably have been some 
distress and inconvenience to Mr S. Thats not something I can hold AXA responsible for, 
thats simply an unfortunate consequence of the leak.
In my view, AXA ought to have recognised the potentially significant detriment to Mr S of a 
prolonged claim and treated his claim as a priority. Had it done so, and completed repairs 
promptly, his distress would have been limited to that unfortunately caused by the leak. 
Instead, it took AXA and its agents around ten months to complete repairs. The nature and 
extent of the work doesnt justify such a long timescale. The delay alone would have been 
very distressing for Mr S. But because the contractors carried out poor repairs and caused 
further damage, he had to accommodate them returning to put things right. And when the 
contractors thought they had lost some of Mr S kitchen units, he was told they would pay 
50% for a new kitchen  leaving Mr S to pay the remainder. Fortunately the items were later 
found but this caused Mr S a great deal of concern at a difficult time.
In addition, he suffered repeated difficulties and frustration trying to communicate with AXA, 
often finding himself on hold for long periods of time, transferred between departments, and 
rarely being able to speak to someone who could get his claim back on track.
The points Ive included above are just a summary of the problems Mr S encountered, but I 
have read and considered his points in full. Having done so, Im satisfied the way AXA 
handled the claim caused Mr S substantial and sustained distress and inconvenience. 
Taking all of the circumstances into account, Im satisfied compensation of £2,000 fairly 
reflects the impact on him. Because of that, I wont be asking AXA to pay anything further. If 
hasnt paid all of this compensation to Mr S yet, hes entitled to ask it to do so now.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman