DRN-4415996
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds [Advantage] poor 
communication, claim handling and delays following a claim they made on their buildings 
insurance policy for the damage caused by an escape of water. 
What happened
Mrs C has led the complaint with this Service so Ive referred to her mainly throughout. 
References I make to her actions also include those of her husband.
Advantage is the underwriter of the policy, i.e. its the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of its agents for which it has accepted responsibility. Any reference I make to 
Advantage includes the actions of its agents. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mrs C owns a property insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
Advantage. 
There were a number of leaks from two bathrooms at Mrs Cs property. She 
contacted Advantage to make a claim on her policy. Advantage accepted the claim 
and appointed specialist agents to manage it. Remedial work was agreed and due to 
the nature of the work, a bathroom pod and alternative accommodation (AA) were 
offered to Mrs H.
There were delay issues with the availability of the bathroom pod and alternative 
accommodation. Advantage says Mrs H declined the AA it found as she didnt 
consider it suitable and she said she might be able to stay with family instead if a 
payment could be made to them. Advantage let her know about the standard 
disturbance allowance of £10 per adult and £5 per child per day but Mrs H declined 
this and said shed wait for suitable AA instead.
After some further back and forth about AA, Advantage increased its disturbance 
allowance offer. Eventually Advantage did source a hotel but Mrs H decided this 
wouldnt be sufficiently convenient due to its location. She accepted the disturbance 
allowance offer in lieu of this. There were problems with the payment of this to Mrs C 
and confusion over the amount. Mrs C complained to Advantage about this and 
Advantages claim handling and delays.
Advantage issued a final response to the complaint. It accepted there had been 
delays and some confusion over the payment for the alternative accommodation. But 
overall, it said the claim had been handled reasonably quickly. It also accepted its 
agent hadnt taken account of Mrs Cs familys personal circumstances sufficiently. It 
offered £200 compensation by way of apology. 
Mrs C raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator considered the evidence 
but didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how complaints should 
be solved quickly and with minimal formality. To do this, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint and may not comment on everything the 
parties have said. But I can confirm I have considered all the evidence and 
comments theyve submitted even if I dont reference them specifically.
Inevitably, incidences of damage following an escape of water are stressful for 
policyholders to deal with and the remedial work associated with a claim will take 
time. Insurers are under an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly and Ill be 
keeping this in mind while undertaking my review, together with what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable. 
I note from Advantages final response, it has acknowledged some poor 
communication, problems with the payment of the disturbance allowance and 
insufficient consideration of Mrs Cs familys personal circumstances. I agree with this 
and can see how its contributed to delays on the claim and the stress and 
inconvenience Mrs C experienced. 
Having carefully considered the file, I can see that Mrs C did have to chase 
Advantage on regular occasions to push for progress on the claim and chase up 
outstanding issues and its clear from the frequency of her contact  sometimes, 
several times a day  she was frustrated with Advantages claims handling. I think 
Advantage should have done a much better job here.
Ive seen Advantage offered a bathroom pod to Mrs C within a few days of the claim 
being reported but she declined this due to the lead times for availability. Instead, she 
said she would prefer to take the disturbance allowance option. Im satisfied the offer 
of a bathroom pod was made in good time and the disturbance allowance offered in 
lieu of this was broadly in line with industry standard rates and in keeping with what 
this Service would expect. 
Then a few weeks later Mrs C told Advantage she would like a bathroom pod after all 
but Advantage explained there were none available at that stage. Mrs C asked about 
alternative accommodation but when none was available Advantage increased its 
disturbance allowance offer significantly.
Advantage did make further attempts at finding alternative accommodation but Mrs C 
considered the offer of a hotel to be too much upheaval for her family. Sometime 
later, a house was found but Mrs C instead accepted Advantages disturbance 
allowance settlement. 
There was confusion over the total amount payable under this allowance and there 
were delays in the payment being made. Again, Mrs C had to chase Advantage to 
resolve the issue and ensure it was paid. I can see how this would have caused Mrs 
C further stress and inconvenience. 
While Advantage did handle some aspects of the claim as I would expect, Im not 
satisfied it consistently provided the service it should have done through this claim and because of this it caused Mrs C distress and inconvenience.
Ive thought about everything very carefully and taken into account all that the parties 
have said. And having done so, Im satisfied the £200 already paid by Advantage is 
an appropriate way for it to recognise its poor claim handling and delays. I recognise 
Mrs C doesnt think this is enough, but Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman