DRN-3231286
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated it unfairly, as 
the bank didnt offset its account debit balance against the credit balance of another group 
entity which Ill call R  leading to interest charges and fees.
The complaint is brought on Cs behalf by its representative. However for ease, Ill refer to C 
throughout.
What happened
C was a customer of HSBC, with an existing business current account and joint £50,000 
overdraft facility shared with R. This overdraft agreement was a net facility which meant C 
could offset any credit or debit balances between its own and Rs accounts, reducing the 
debit interest and fees. In October 2018, C signed a new agreement for an increased 
overdraft of £90,000  again between the two accounts. However, this agreement wasnt for 
a net facility.   
In January 2020, C complained to HSBC. It said the bank had incorrectly charged monthly 
interest on the overdraft balance since May 2018, as it had a net facility. C also said that as 
the debit balances across both accounts hadnt exceeded the overdraft limit, no charges 
should have been applied. C said that it acknowledged HSBC had sent interest notifications 
to one of its staff, but unfortunately these hadnt been received as that staff member had 
been seriously ill. 
HSBC said the agreement only offset the two account balances and not the interest and it 
didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said the agreement wasnt for a net facility and that C 
had signed the agreement to say it understood the terms, and it hadnt raised any concerns 
in the 30-day cooling off period - it wouldnt be refunding the interest. The bank issued a 
follow-up response saying if C had questions about the terminology within the agreement, it 
should have raised this before signing it, so its decision remained the same. C didnt think 
this was fair and asked this service to look into its complaint.  
HSBC didnt think this was a complaint we could look at, as it believed Cs turnover was too 
big for C to come within our jurisdiction. C provided evidence of its annual financial data over 
several years, and one of our ombudsmen issued a decision saying why this service could 
look at Cs complaint. However, he said this service only had jurisdiction to consider small 
business complaints from 1 April 2019, so we could only consider events or actions that took 
place after this date.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She said she 
could only look at the actions of HSBC after 1 April 2019, so she couldnt consider the 
suitability of the original agreement as this had been taken out in 2018. But she thought 
HSBC had done enough to make C aware of the interest it was paying, as the bank had 
issued monthly statements  which could also be viewed online at any point. She also noted 
the relationship manager (RM) had contacted C when it had gone over its agreed overdraft 
limit and when the bank had needed more information to increase the overdraft limit. 
The investigator acknowledged the interest statements had been sent to one of Cs 
employees who was unwell, but she didnt think it was fair to hold HSBC responsible for this. 
HSBC agreed with the view, but C didnt. It said in summary:
It had been put under time pressure by HSBC to sign the agreement;
HSBC didnt treat it fairly as charging this amount of interest wasnt in line with the 
banks purpose and values, and it was profiteering from C;
HSBC should have proactively contacted it to get it to move money between the 
accounts to reduce the interest payable.
The investigator replied to C and said shed addressed these points in her original view. C 
remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review its complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Im not able to consider part of Cs complaint. Im also not 
upholding the parts I can consider. Ill explain why.
Original overdraft agreement
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn't free to consider every complaint that's brought to 
us. We're governed by rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in the FCA's handbook. They set out 
the complaints that we can (and can't) investigate.
These rules say that we can only consider complaints referred to us by (or on behalf of) 
eligible complainants. DISP 2.7.3(R) lists those that are eligible and includes a 
micro-enterprise or a small business. However, in relation to a small business DISP TP 
1.1.51 states that we can only consider a complaint concerning an act or omission which 
occurred on or after 1 April 2019. 
In this case, C complains that HSBC pressurised it into signing the overdraft agreement as it 
was worried that its direct debits would be returned unpaid. So C says it didnt have the 
opportunity to seek legal advice and question the interest terms. However, as this agreement 
was signed in October 2018, and C is larger than a micro-enterprise, the rules dont allow us 
to consider this part of Cs complaint. Our investigator has already given C details of the 
Business Banking Resolution Service which may be able to look at this part of its complaint.
Interest charges
Cs initial complaint point were that HSBC was incorrect in how it had calculated the interest 
as it had a net facility, and interest should only have been applied if it went over the overdraft 
limit. So I need to see if HSBC have applied the interest correctly. Looking at the agreement 
C signed, I can see it says under the Interest Rate section that the following terms will be 
applied 2.98% per annum over the Base Rate on the total debit balances on the Facility 
Accounts up to the Limit. If total debit balance on the Facility Account exceed the Limit, the 
Business Standard Debit Interest Rate on the amount of that excess. I dont agree with C that it had a net facility or that should only have been charged interest if 
it went over the facility limit - as the agreement says interest will be applied to the total debit 
balances. Ive also looked at the bank statements provided by both parties, and Im satisfied 
HSBC applied the interest charges inline with the agreement C signed. So I dont think the 
bank made an error in how it calculated or applied the interest on Cs account.  
C has also said that HSBC profiteered from the interest it charged. It says the bank should 
have been more proactive in contacting it, to make it aware it should transfer money 
between its accounts. But I dont agree. I say this because C has told this service that it did 
receive notification of these interest charges, but these notifications went to a member of 
staff who was seriously unwell, so they werent picked up. 
I acknowledge this would have been a difficult time for C due to the staff illness, but I dont 
think its fair to hold the bank responsible for this. HSBC sent notifications to the contact 
details C had provided and they were clear in explaining its actions, so I think HSBC did 
enough to make C aware of the costs it was incurring from the overdraft facility on a regular 
basis.
C says its unfair that it has been charged a significant amount of interest from May 2018 
onwards which it wasnt aware of until January 2020  and I understand why it says this. 
However, Ive seen copies of Cs monthly statements which show the charges and interest 
payable for each period. These fees and charges are titled and in their own section, so even 
if C wasnt able to see these due to a large volume of transactions on its statement history, 
this section shows whats payable as a total. HSBC have also confirmed that these amounts 
would have been viewable by C at any time on its online banking facility. So I think HSBC 
was clear about its charges and C could have seen the information even if it didnt receive 
the interest notifications.
C says HSBC should have proactively told it that the balances werent being offset and it 
should have highlighted the excesses. C says it spoke to its RM during this period and these 
charges should have been raised. It feels that by not doing so the bank hasnt treated it 
fairly. However, I dont think this is a reasonable expectation. HSBC applied the terms of the 
account fairly and notified C appropriately. Ive also seen that HSBC notified C when it went 
over its agreed overdraft limit. I dont think its the role of the bank to tell C how it should run 
its accounts  only to provide the account information so C is able to make its informed 
business decisions. 
I recognise that C is unhappy about this and will be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I think HSBC have acted reasonably and in line with its 
agreement with C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman