DRN-1483964
  
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Skipton in 1993, through an independent financial 
adviser. In 1998 they applied to change their mortgage product. In early 1999 they applied 
for a PPI policy which would have covered the repayments on their mortgage for up to 12 
months at a time. They also elected to insure a further amount in addition to their mortgage 
repayments to help with other expenses.
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt know the policy was optional and that the terms and conditions 
werent explained. They indicate they didnt need the policy.
The adjudicator thought that Mr and Mrs As complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs A 
disagree, so their case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
When Mr and Mrs A took out their mortgage in 1993 they didnt take PPI. Their mortgage 
required them to take out one of several insurance products sold by Skipton. They chose 
buildings and contents insurance.
When they came to change their mortgage product in August 1998 they still had to have one 
of the insurance products. But as they already had buildings and contents insurance Skipton 
say they didnt need to take anything else. 
However, Skipton received an application for PPI from Mr A for PPI in January 1999  five 
months after Mr and Mrs A took out their new mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs A say they were advised to take the cover in case of illness or loss of job and 
not advised it was optional. They dont say who advised them, or whether this was a 
personal rather than general recommendation, but I havent seen any evidence that it was a 
representative of Skipton. 
As the PPI application wasnt made until five months after Mr and Mrs As new mortgage 
product was in place I cant be satisfied that the policy wasnt optional. And Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs A would have realised this too, even if they cant remember it now. Additionally, Mr and Mrs A selected to pay for more cover than just their mortgage 
repayments. They selected to take an additional amount to cover other expenses. The first 
six months of the insurance was free. I think if Mr and Mrs A hadnt wanted the cover but 
thought they had to have it then theyd have taken the minimum amount of cover allowed. 
On balance, on the information available to me, I am satisfied Mr and Mrs A bought the PPI 
knowing they had a choice about it  even if they cant remember this over 20 years later.
Skipton says it didnt make a personal recommendation to Mr and Mrs A about the PPI so it 
didnt need to take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest this isnt the case.  But Skipton did need to make sure it gave them all 
the information they needed to make their own decision. Its possible Skipton didnt give 
them all this information. 
But looking at Mr As circumstances (whom the policy covered) I dont think more information 
wouldve changed their minds about buying it. I think its clear Mr and Mrs A understood the 
policy would pay a benefit if Mr A wasnt able to work, because they selected how much 
cover they wanted. And as I think Mr and Mrs A chose to take out the PPI, it seems they 
were interested in this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mr A was affected by any of the terms which mightve made it more 
difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or self-employment  so it wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs A if something 
went wrong. 
Mr A says he was entitled to contractual sick pay and redundancy pay, so he didnt need the 
policy. He also says he had savings they could have used to pay their mortgage if Mr A 
wasnt working. But it was up to Mr and Mrs A to decide whether they were able to cover 
their expenses through their existing means, because Skipton didnt provide them with any 
personal advice. 
I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs A and it could 
have been cancelled at any time (although if they took if for less than a year theyd have had 
to pay for the first six months of cover which was otherwise free).
So, on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs A lost out as a result of anything Skipton did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint, so it follows that Skipton Building Society 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman