DRN-1407301
The complaint
Mrs U complains about how One Sure Insurance Limited administered her commercial motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs U took out a policy with One Sure and she was quoted a premium. There was then an 
issue with Mrs Us No Claims Discount (NCD) due to a pending claim with another insurer. 
This was resolved, but One Sure made a mistake with the additional premium it said Mrs U 
should have paid. It incorrectly told Mrs U her premium had reduced. When the error was 
corrected, Mrs U had made an underpayment of £58.63. One Sure paid this amount. But 
Mrs U thought One Sure should honour the adjusted premium it had told her was correct. 
She was also unhappy with the cancellation charges for the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought One 
Sure had set up the premium correctly at first. It had then made a mistake by applying a 
return premium rather than an additional premium. It had given Mrs U wrong information 
about this. But she thought it had reasonably paid the underpayment this caused. She 
thought the premium direct debits were then correctly reinstated. She advised Mrs U to 
complain to the policy underwriter if she was unhappy with the cancellation fees. 
Mrs U replied that she had been misinformed and this put her into financial difficulties. She 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs U feels frustrated with how her policy was administered. I can see 
that she had further concerns with One Sure. But I cant consider these here as she needs to 
complain to One Sure first to give it a chance to respond. I can also see that Mrs Us policy 
with One Sure expired some time ago. The investigator has already explained that if she 
was unhappy with the cancellation terms, she should raise this with the insurer. 
One Sure has agreed that it made a mistake when it amended the premium to take into 
account the change in NCD. It said it applied a return of premium rather than an additional 
premium. This meant that, when the policy was restored to its original price after the correct 
NCD was restored, Mrs U had underpaid her premium. The difference between what she 
had paid and the agreed original amount was £58.63. 
When a business makes a mistake, as One Sure has agreed it did here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the mistake had on the consumer.
I can see that One Sure restored the premium to what it should have been. Mrs U had paid 
less premium in total than she should have. But One Sure paid the £58.63 she had been 
undercharged due to its mistake. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances as I 
think it provides compensation for Mrs Us trouble and upset.
Mrs U was disappointed that One Sure wouldnt continue to honour the reduced premium. 
She said shed called it when it had been reduced and was told this was correct. I think One 
Sure gave Mrs U incorrect information. And I can understand her disappointment. But I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for Mrs U to benefit financially from its mistake. So I dont 
require One Sure to do this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman