DRN-2723910
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complained that the company holding a second charge over their property,
Shawbrook Bank Limited, contacted the estate agents selling that property without their 
permission.
 
What happened
Mr G contacted us in March 2020. He said hed got into financial difficulties during the past 
year, as a result of changes in his employment. He said he had an agreement with his
mortgage company, Shawbrook, to accept reduced payments. He put the house up for sale
and had it registered with more than one estate agent.
Mr G said that he hadnt given Shawbrook authority to contact the estate agents who were
marketing the house. But it had done so anyway. He said he hadnt given the details of one
agent, because a family member worked there. That person, and other family members, now
know about the problems hes facing, and that the house might be repossessed. Mr G told
us that he suffered a lot of embarrassment and stress as a result.
Shawbrook said it understood that Mr G felt data protection rules were breached when it
contacted the estate agents who were selling his house. Shawbrook said it would prefer to
get Mr Gs agreement to do that, but it doesnt have to, as it has a vested interest in the
property. So it said it was allowed to call the estate agents even if Mr G didnt want it to.
Shawbrook said that it had listened to the calls, and it did agree that its call handler had
shared some information about the second charge which wasnt necessary. It maintained
that data protection hadnt been breached though, because the questions asked were about
the property. It offered to pay Mr G £250 to make up for the upset it had caused by making a
family member aware of his financial situation.
Our investigator set out the details of Mr Gs arrears in some detail. In short, Mr G first
discussed difficulties making his payments with Shawbrook in February 2019. A reduced
payment was agreed for two months. A further reduced payment arrangement was agreed in
May 2019. By the end of July, Mr and Mrs G had decided to sell the house, and they
reduced their monthly payment still further.
Shawbrook had decided by the end of August that it would only keep accepting these much
reduced payments if it could talk to Mr Gs estate agent. At the start of September, notes
from a call say Mr G had agreed to allow Shawbrook to contact the estate agents, which
hed previously resisted. Our investigator said hed listened to this call, and Mr G hadnt
agreed to that.
Shawbrook then rang two estate agents that it had found from the internet were marketing
Mr Gs home. With, unfortunately, no further progress on a sale by late October,
Shawbrook issued Mr and Mrs G with a final notice.
In November, Mr G offered to increase the payment, but this payment was late. Shawbrook
wrote at the end of January, referring to the final notice issued previously.
Mr G then complained because hed learned that Shawbrook had contacted his estate
agents. Shawbrook put litigation on hold to deal with the complaint, then also because of the
pandemic. But it has said that if it werent for these issues, it would already have
commenced legal action when the complaint came to us, in March 2020.
Our investigator didnt think that Shawbrook had to do any more than it had already done.
He said that, having considered the background carefully, he felt that Mr and Mrs G had no
alternative but to sell their property to repay their debt to Shawbrook. And Shawbrook could
only continue to accept token payments if it believed there was a credible way to repay the
debt in the short term. Otherwise it would just be allowing the account to fall further into
arrears.
By the end of August, Shawbrook had decided it needed to speak directly to the estate
agents about Mr Gs sale. Our investigator said it was reasonable for Shawbrook to ensure
the property was being marketed at a reasonable price, especially with arrears building up.
Our investigator felt that, as Shawbrook had an interest in the property, it was entitled to
contact the estate agent with or without Mr Gs consent.
Our investigator understood Mr Gs concerns about his privacy, and about the estate agents
being less willing to market the property if it knew about a mortgage companys concerns,
although he said our service couldnt consider a complaint about the second issue.
Our investigator thought Shawbrook let Mr G down by not properly explaining its position
when it spoke to him on 9 September 2019. Mr G left the call thinking Shawbrook would
reconsider continuing as it had with him giving updates on the sale. But Shawbrook came
away thinking it had Mr Gs consent to speak to the estate agents. So it did.
Our investigator thought Shawbrook shouldve made clear to Mr G, that while he could
refuse to allow Shawbrook to contact the estate agent, that would mean Shawbrook would
start litigation. Our investigator said that Shawbrook only held off with litigation, and kept
accepting token payments, because it had spoken to the estate agents. Our investigator said
refusing to allow Shawbrook to speak to the estate agents while continuing to make token
payments wasnt an option for Mr G.
Our investigator thought if Shawbrook had explained things better during the call on 9
September 2019, then it wasnt likely that Mr G wouldve opted to continue to refuse to allow
Shawbrook to contact his estate agents, and preferred to face the prospect of Shawbrook
repossessing the house.
Our investigator thought that Shawbrook shouldve explained things clearly, so Mr G didnt
have the shock of learning later that Shawbrook had contacted the estate agent anyway. But
he said that the £250 Shawbrook had paid was a reasonable level of compensation for this.
Mr G didnt agree. He felt that our investigators view was unfair because it was based on the
assumption that Shawbrook would have repossessed his home, when it didnt. Mr G said he
wouldve paid off the arrears before this happened, and said he had the means to do that.
Our investigator said that, on what hed seen, Shawbrook wouldve started legal action much
sooner, if it hadnt spoken to his estate agents. And he invited Mr G to send any evidence
that he would've been able to clear the arrears.
Because Mr G and our investigator didnt agree, this case was passed to me for a final
decision.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt think Shawbrook 
had to do more than it had offered. This is what I said then: 
Ive listened to the calls that Mr G had with Shawbrook, and I cannot hear that Mr G 
ever gave permission for Shawbrook to contact his estate agents.
Shawbrook has consistently maintained that it didnt need Mr Gs permission to talk 
to the agent. It has also said that it doesnt feel it breached data protection laws.
I dont think its for our service to make any firm decision on whether data protection 
laws have been breached. The Information Commissioners Office is best placed to 
make a decision on the relevant law here.
But I do think that discussing the sale of Mr Gs property with the agents who were 
selling the property for him involves revealing information about Mr Gs financial 
position which he has, quite understandably, said he feels is quite sensitive.
Unlike our investigator, I dont think that Shawbrook was entitled to do this without Mr 
Gs agreement.
I do think though that Mr G in fact had little choice over this, as our investigator set 
out. 
Before I consider further what would have happened if Mr G hadnt agreed to 
Shawbrook contacting the estate agent, I should just note that Shawbrook hasnt 
sought to defend its call handler telling the estate agent that the charge over the 
property was a second charge, or that there was a high balance on the loan. Neither 
of these things were at all necessary.
I do think Shawbrook has made mistakes in contacting the agents without Mr Gs
agreement. So I need to think about what Shawbrook needs to do to make up for 
whats gone wrong here. And, like our investigator, I think its relevant to consider 
what would have happened if Mr G had refused permission.
Our investigator explained that, effectively, Mr G had little choice over whether to let
Shawbrook contact his agents. His loan was in arrears, and although Mr G pointed 
out that the arrears were small compared to the value of his home, they were 
increasing quickly. Shawbrook needed to be sure that Mr Gs plan to sell the property 
had a reasonable prospect of success. It would be irresponsible for it to do otherwise.
When someone tells a mortgage company that they are going to sell their house to 
clear the arrears, I would expect that company to ask permission to contact the 
agents, to see if the house is being marketed actively, if the price is realistic, and 
what the prospects are for a sale. From what Ive seen, it appears that Mr G was 
making his best efforts to sell the property, but Im sure hell appreciate that not 
everyone does that. So, if Shawbrook had been entirely unable to talk to his agents, I 
think it would have been reasonable for Shawbrook to question the reasons for this, 
particularly if there appeared to be slow progress in things moving forward. As a 
result, its likely it would have started legal action sooner.
I know Mr G doesnt think we should assume Shawbrook would have started legalproceedings if it hadnt been able to speak to the agents selling the property. But the 
notes from the time make clear Shawbrook was going to do that, if it couldnt speak 
to his agents.
So, ultimately, I think its likely Mr G wouldve agreed that Shawbrook could contact 
the estate agents, if this had been properly explained to him. I know he didnt want to 
do that, but I think its likely that he wouldve felt that the other options were even 
more unpalatable.
But I do think that Mr G should have been able to make some choices at the point 
when he was asked to agree to Shawbrook contacting his agents. He could have 
chosen to withdraw the property from the agents where his family member worked. I 
dont know that he would have wanted to do that, as Mr G felt this agency offered the 
best chance of a good sale price for his house. Or Mr G may simply have preferred to 
tell his family himself about the circumstances of the sale.
I dont think that Mr G shouldve had these decisions taken away from him, and found 
out afterwards that Shawbrook had spoken to the agents. Thats what I think 
Shawbrook needs to pay compensation for in this case.
I know that Mr G has found this enormously stressful, and that he doesnt think that a
payment of £250 would be enough to make up for whats gone wrong here. But I can 
hear, on the calls Mr G had with Shawbrook, that he was already finding this process 
extremely upsetting, even before Shawbrook talked to his agents.
I can quite understand that the sale of his home, amid some uncertainty about his
employment, would be extremely difficult and upsetting for Mr G. But I cant ask 
Shawbrook to pay compensation for that. The payment of £250 it has offered is only 
for any additional element of distress caused by speaking to his agents. And, like our 
investigator, I do think that a payment of £250 is a fair and reasonable amount to pay 
for that.
I understand that Mr G hasnt accepted that offer, so I dont think this money has yet 
been paid. Because I think thats part of providing a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint, Ill award that now. but Ill also allow Shawbrook to offset against my 
award any money its already paid Mr and Mrs G for this complaint, in case it has 
paid this more recently.
I dont know if the sale has gone ahead on this property yet. I do hope Mr and Mrs G 
have been able to resolve this issue. But in case they have not, I would like to remind 
Shawbrook about the current Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance for taking 
action to recover mortgage arrears given the impact of the global pandemic. I would 
expect Shawbrook to continue to treat Mr and Mrs G in line with this guidance as it 
continues to evolve over time. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has replied.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I havent changed my mind. I still think Shawbrook should pay the £250 it offered, but I dont 
think it has to do more than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Shawbrook Bank Limited must pay Mr G and Mrs G £250 in 
compensation. Shawbrook Bank Limited can offset against that award any payment it has 
already made to Mr G and Mrs G for this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman