DRN-3984884
The complaint
Mr A complains that British Gas Insurance Limited failed to repair his boiler within a 
reasonable time and they missed or cancelled a number of appointments. 
What happened
Mr A has a HomeCare policy with British Gas which provides cover for repairs in the event of 
breakdown or damage to his boiler and central heating system. An annual service is also 
included. 
Mr A had his boiler serviced by British Gas in January 2022. At the time he says three parts 
were listed as being at fault. And so an appointment was made to replace the parts. 
Mr A says a number of appointments were missed and then he had issues with the hot water 
not working after a visit from British Gas later in January. Mr A says he had to diagnose the 
problem himself because British Gas failed to do so. 
Mr A also had issues with the hot water cycling hot and cold for around two weeks, and no 
hot water or central heating for almost two weeks. Mr A had to use an electric heater to heat 
up one room of his home at a time. And he was unable to shower so had to use his 
neighbours shower. 
A safety warning notice was imposed on his boiler until it could be repaired which was 
supposed to be by 25 February 2022 but that was pushed back until March due to leaks in 
the system, and other issues with parts required. Mr A also paid to get his own contractor out 
to inspect the boiler. 
Mr A had to cancel work and delayed scheduled jobs to try and accommodate the 
appointments with British Gas. He is self-employed and so doesnt receive holiday pay for 
this time. 
Mr A wants British Gas to pay him compensation for the missed appointments, the issues 
with the water, and the general handling of his repairs. He says it took 16 appointments over 
two months to repair the boiler. He also says he wanted to cancel the policy renewal in 
February but was unable to as the repairs were continuing. 
Mr A complained to British Gas. British Gas accepted there were issues with the service Mr 
A received. It offered Mr A a refund of the costs he paid for his contractor plus £400 to 
apologise for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the response received from British Gas so he referred his complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she could see from the evidence 
provided that British Gas had missed four appointments, the repair to the boiler took from 
January to March, and there were attempted repairs that didnt succeed. The investigator 
said she didnt think British Gas could be held solely responsible for the delays with the 
repairs. She also said she didnt think the cost of the policy renewal should be refunded 
since Mr A was free to cancel the renewal if he wanted to. The investigator concluded the 
compensation paid was in line with the services approach to compensation so she wouldnt 
be asking it to pay anything more. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view. He didnt think the compensation paid was 
enough to reflect the inconvenience caused. So the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr A feels very strongly that British Gas should increase the compensation offered. 
I recognise he feels let down by the service he has received and I can understand his 
frustration. Its important to note our service doesnt regulate or punish businesses. My role 
here is to assess whether I think British Gas treated Mr A fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
British Gas has acknowledged there were failings in the service it provided to Mr A. So what 
Ive needed to consider is whether the £400 its paid is fair compensation. 
The boiler was serviced in January 2022 after which it was determined it required some 
replacement parts. It took around two months for the issues to be resolved. This was after 
four cancelled appointments and several visits from British Gas.
British Gas says that under its terms and conditions it doesnt pay for time off work. But the 
terms refer to reasonable timescales and say, well carry out any repairs or visits youre 
entitled to within a reasonable time. 
Looking at what happened I dont think the problems were fixed within a reasonable time. It 
took around two months and several visits to fix the problem, which caused a lot of 
unnecessary inconvenience and discomfort during the winter months. 
British Gas hasnt explained why those four appointments were cancelled or why it took so 
long to get the repairs completed. I can accept it might be necessary for a consumer to need 
to take one or two days off to fix a problem. But Mr A had to take a significant amount of time 
off. So I think the inconvenience and consequential loss was more than might be expected. 
And I think it must have been very frustrating for him to take the time off and have the 
inconvenience of staying in for appointments that didnt resolve the issues with his boiler.
British Gas has accepted the failure in service. The issue here is whether the compensation 
offered was reasonable. And based on what Ive seen I think it was. So taking everything 
into account Im satisfied British Gas has attempted to resolve Mr As complaint fairly. 
Compensation 
British Gas has accepted the service fell below what would be expected and has paid Mr A 
£400 to reflect this. I think the offer is reasonable in the circumstances and in line with what I 
would have suggested, had an offer not already been made. 
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has already paid Mr A £400 to settle the complaint and I think 
this is fair in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman