DRN-2692145
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) have 
paid less that they were projected to receive upon the maturity of their mortgage endowment 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a with-profits mortgage endowment policy with Prudential in April 
1999. It matured in April 2020, and they said they were told a month prior that they were due 
to receive £61,312.72. However, Mr and Mrs M were unhappy because upon maturity they 
were paid around 5.5% less than this amount.
Prudential explained that the projected value was not guaranteed, and that it ultimately 
wasnt achieved because of the difficult market conditions experienced at the time the policy 
matured. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as he was satisfied with Prudentials 
explanation, and also noted that Mr and Mrs M had been told that the maturity value was not 
guaranteed. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Mr and Mrs M have complained because in March 2020 Prudential estimated that they 
would receive an amount of £61,312.72 upon maturity, only to eventually receive £3,340.93 
less than this. 
I think its important to point out that this isnt money that has been taken away from Mr and 
Mrs Ms plan or redistributed. This is because the amount of £61,312.72 was a prospective 
value that Prudential wouldve anticipated they could achieve (in other words, it was an 
estimate). It was never money that was in the plan all along that has been clawed back at 
the last moment; it is just that the anticipated value wasnt achieved. So I dont consider it to 
be the case that £3,340.93 has been lost and that Prudential ought to explain where it has 
gone.
A share of Mr and Mrs Ms plans final value would have been accounted for by a terminal 
bonus. But whereas annual bonuses are guaranteed the terminal bonus was not. And I can 
see that Prudential made it clear in their letter of March 2020 that the value quoted was only 
an estimate and wasnt guaranteed, as well as the fact that the final bonus rate could 
change:
The estimated amount payablewill be £61,312.72. The value is given as a guide 
only and cannot be guaranteed. The actual amount payable will be calculated as at 
the maturity date. Please remember that unit prices go up and down, so the value 
may be higher or lower than the figure quoted. 
Final bonus rates are regularly reviewed so the rate we use to determine your 
maturity payment may not be the same as was indicated in your yearly statement.
So although Prudential quoted £61,312.72, they are not obliged to pay this, and I can see 
theyve made this clear to Mr and Mrs M. In terms of the factors that caused the value to fall, 
Prudential have explained that the prevailing difficult market conditions at the time of 
maturity was they key reason for the fall in value. And I note this was around the time that 
markets were particularly volatile and had fallen in response to the Coronavirus pandemic 
and the country being placed into lockdown. 
I appreciate Prudential may not have gone into a great amount of detail about all the other 
various factors that can affect the final maturity value. But this can depend on a number of 
things, such as the cost of the insurance business, the value of the underlying unit prices, as 
well as the need to smooth bonuses from year to year (where some of the profits are held 
back during good years to boost the profits during the bad years to avoid drastic 
fluctuations). I also wouldnt have expected Prudential to have disclosed a complex or 
detailed breakdown of their actuarial calculations to show how they arrived at the final 
maturity value. So I think it was reasonable enough of them to explain that adverse 
investment conditions had been the predominant reason for the fall in value, and Ive also 
not seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that the fall in value was due to any negligent 
mismanagement of the fund.
I can also see that Prudential explained to Mr and Mrs M in their policy illustration that the 
final value of the plan could rise as well as fall, and that it would be dependent on how the 
investment grows. So, the fact that the final maturity value was lower when calculated at the 
point of maturity does not mean that Prudential have treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly or have 
deprived them of their money  it is simply a result of the market/fund conditions prevailing at 
that moment in time. So, in the circumstances, I will not be asking them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman