DRN-3844990
The complaint
Mr P, helped by a representative, complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to 
refund him for transactions which he said he hadnt authorised.
What happened
On 26 May 2022, Mr P contacted Barclays about 27 transactions which he said he hadnt 
authorised and were fraudulent. Theyd taken place between 18 and 24 May and totalled 
£1,191.87. 
On 29 June, Mr P contacted Barclays again, about 60 transactions which he said he hadnt 
authorised and were fraudulent. Theyd taken place between 10 and 25 June and totalled 
£4,086.58. 
So the total complained about on those two dates was £5,278.45.
 
Barclays refused to refund Mr P, and didnt uphold his complaint. In its final response, 
Barclays said that it was holding Mr P liable for the transactions. It explained that the reason 
was that it could see that Mr P had logged onto his online banking before and after the 
disputed transactions  so hed have seen them, and the declining balance.
Barclays also said that it had evidence that Mr P had authenticated some of the disputed 
transactions on his online banking. This meant he must have authorised them using his 
pinsentry device. And the IP address (a unique computer identifier) for the transactions 
matched over 140 occasions when Mr P had logged into his Barclays online and mobile 
banking.   
Mr P wasnt satisfied and, represented by a relative, contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He could see that Mr P had accessed online 
banking many times between the disputed transactions. There had been many transactions, 
amounting to a significant value, so hed have expected Mr P to have reported it sooner. And 
multiple disputed transactions had been authorised through a one-time passcode sent to Mr 
Ps mobile, which had been in his possession throughout. Nor could the investigator see any 
point of compromise for Mr Ps debit card, or how any third party could have obtained it to 
carry out the transactions. So the investigator thought it was most likely that Mr P had 
authorised the disputed transactions.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. His representative said that Mr P 
didnt believe Barclays had correctly evidenced that Mr P had carried out the transactions. 
She said that Mr P would probably take the complaint to court if the ombudsmans decision 
didnt agree with Mr P.
Mr Ps representative also said that they thought theyd reported a total of £7,787 disputed 
transactions to Barclays, not £5,278.45. The investigator contacted both sides, and it was 
agreed that this decision will cover only £5,278.45 of disputed transactions, because thats 
the amount which was in the complaint to Barclays. If Mr P wishes to pursue the other 
£2,508.55, hell need to complain about this to Barclays before he can bring it to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above, this decision covers £5,278.45 of disputed transactions.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In 
general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
Ive looked at the computer evidence provided by Barclays. This shows that Mr P logged 
onto his online banking many times, before and after the disputed transactions. Hed done 
so 16 times between the first disputed transaction on 18 May and when he reported the first 
set of disputed transactions to Barclays on 26 May. And hed done so another 12 times 
between the first of the second set of disputed transactions on 10 June and when he 
reported that set of disputed transactions to Barclays on 29 June. I consider its very unlikely 
that Mr P wouldnt have noticed the disputed transactions when he logged on. There are 
many of them, and they are for significant sums of money. If a third party fraudster had 
carried out the disputed transactions, Id expect Mr P to have reported them straightaway.
Ive also seen from the computer evidence that the IP address from which the disputed 
transactions were made, was one which Mr P had used many times for his online and mobile 
banking. In its final response, Barclays said there were over 140 instances where Mr P had 
used this IP address.
And some payments had been authorised using one-time passcodes sent to Mr Ps mobile. 
Mr P said he had his mobile throughout.
I recognise that Mr Ps representative has forwarded to us some correspondence between 
Mr P and some of the firms to which the disputed transactions were sent. The 
correspondence shows Mr P asking about the disputed transactions, and receiving a range 
of responses, for example that the firms couldnt find the transactions. But this 
correspondence doesnt outweigh the factual, technical computer evidence which Ive 
described above. That computer evidence persuades me that its very unlikely that it was a 
third party fraudster who carried out the disputed transactions.
So I consider its more likely than not that it was Mr P who authorised the transactions 
himself, or he provided his information to another person who carried them out with his 
authority. So I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint and I do not require Barclays to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman