DRN-4375042
The complaint
Mr As complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to the breach of an 
agreement he made with Barclays concerning his mortgage repayment plan.
What happened
In the years prior to raising his complaint with Barclays, Mr A been struggling with health 
issues, both physical and mental, which in turn led him to miss mortgage payments and to 
mortgage arrears. On 25 March 2023 Barclays wrote to Mr A asking him to contact them 
immediately to discuss his mortgage arrears and to stop legal action. 
Mr A contacted Barclays on 18 May 2023 to say hed not received that letter. The Barclays 
advisor he spoke to agreed a repayment plan and that no further action would be taken 
regarding Court proceedings. Also, that the legal costs incurred would be paid for by 
Barclays and not added to his account.
On 24 May Barclays solicitors wrote to Mr A telling him that a Court hearing had been fixed 
for 30 June 2023 and that if he paid the arrears in full it could be adjourned. If the arrears 
couldnt be paid in full he was invited to contact them and make a proposal. He was also 
advised that additional legal costs incurred would be added to his mortgage. Receipt of this 
letter caused Mr A considerable distress and anxiety at an already difficult time for him. 
Barclays explained that there had been an overlap between the date of their agreement with 
Mr A and then notifying their solicitors, which had led to the issue of the letter 24 May. 
Barclays explained this to Mr A and, telling him the hearing would be adjourned and that his 
account would not be charged with any legal costs. 
Mr A was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had been poor 
service by Barclays, and it should pay Mr A £100 in compensation.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Barclays have conceded that in breach of their agreement with Mr A, their solicitors wrote to 
him advising that a Court hearing had been scheduled and was going ahead. I can easily 
see how this mistake has happened, which is very unfortunate, especially so in the light of 
Mr As pre-existing vulnerabilities which Barclays knew about.
Whilst Barclays have provided an explanation, it does not address why it could not have 
been prevented. It is reasonable to expect Barclays to have a robust system in place to 
ensure that when an agreement is reached its solicitors are told immediately to stop this very 
type of issue arising. Especially, so when it is known that their customer suffers from poor 
physical and mental health.
I also accept that receiving a letter advising of an impending Court hearing for the 
repossession of your home, is certainly likely to be very worrying for most people. In this 
case I accept it is likely to have had an even greater impact upon Mr A because of his 
existing health conditions.
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 21 August 2023 and Mr A has responded. Barclays 
has not. Mr A has raised other issues and feels the level of compensation I suggested was 
insufficient. I shall deal with his further issues below.
Mr A has said he has further ongoing issues with Barclays, and I am sorry to hear about that. 
Those are however fresh issues, and I cannot deal with them. Should Mr A feel that the 
more recent correspondence he has received warrants a further complaint then he should 
make that directly to Barclays to give them the opportunity to respond. Similarly, his 
complaint about the direct debit issues also forms a separate complaint to that which I am 
now considering.
I do understand Mr A has trust issues with Barclays and I am aware of how he describes the 
impact of that on his mental health. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the issue becomes whether the £100 award of 
compensation our investigator suggested, was fair and reasonable. I previously explained 
how this service considers the appropriate level of compensation so I shall not repeat it here. 
I confirm that I have taken into account Mr As pre-existing health conditions, and that the 
receipt of the solicitors letter most likely had a greater impact on him than a person who did 
not have those issues. I also take into account that any award for the trouble and upset 
caused needs to be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of life which we all 
face when dealing with other people, businesses, and organisations. 
Putting things right
Having reconsidered all the evidence and Mr As further comments, I remain of the view that 
the relevant category for this this complaint is in the category for an award of over £300 and 
up to around £750. I accept that the impact of Barclays mistake caused considerable 
distress, upset, and worry since it involved from Mr As perspective the potential loss of his 
home and increased legal costs being applied to his account. Whilst typically this bracket is 
commonly used in cases where the impact lasts over many weeks or months, I do think it is 
appropriate in this case because it had a serious short-term impact
Accordingly, I do feel that my provisional view that £400 compensation ought to be paid is 
fair and reasonableMy final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank PLC should pay Mr P £400 to reflect the trouble and 
upset caused to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman