DRN-2597964
The complaint
Miss J complains about how Zenith Insurance plc handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy.
All references to Zenith include its agents.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and was set out in 
the investigators view in detail. So, Ill only provide an overview of some key events here.
On 1 January 2020, when she was abroad, Miss Js car was driven by a member of her 
boyfriends family, who Ill refer to as M in this decision for ease. Her car was involved in an 
accident which damaged an unmanned parked car. Miss J was contacted by the police 
about this while she was away and said she hadnt given permission for it to be used by M.
After shed returned to the country, the third partys insurer had contacted Zenith to let them 
know of a potential claim against Miss Js insurance policy. Zenith got in touch with Miss J to 
ask her about this. She explained what had happened and sent evidence of her being 
abroad at the time.
In late January 2020, Zenith told Miss J this may be a claim on her policy even though the 
car was used without permission and she wasnt involved. Miss J said she didnt want to 
prosecute M and the police told her she couldnt be held liable. Zenith explained they 
wouldnt have to settle the claim under Miss Js policy if M paid the claim costs. This would 
avoid it being classed as a fault claim and her no claims discount (NCD) would be allowed. 
In mid May 2020, Miss J gave Ms insurance details to Zenith. However, as the car was 
taken without consent, Zenith explained the claim couldnt be covered under Ms policy. 
They also confirmed theyd need to settle the claim and try to seek reimbursement from M. 
In late May, Miss Js boyfriend was appointed as her representative. He asked Zenith if they 
could amend the claim to show M had been given consent. Zenith didnt agree to do this.
In June, several things occurred including the following. 
- Miss J complained to Zenith about the handling of the claim.
- The next day, Miss J contacted Zenith to let them know shed been told a court date 
had been set for later in June and they could submit a request to recover their costs.
- Zenith paid out to the third partys insurer under the claim and told Miss J the amount 
incurred, which was around £2,700. 
- The court hearing for the charges against M was postponed.
When Miss J was told the new date for the hearing, she told Zenith and asked them to 
submit their request to recover the costs of the claim, which is what Zenith did. At court, M 
pleaded guilty to the charges including aggravated vehicle taking without consent.
When Zenith responded to Miss Js complaint, they said the claim was a fault claim and this 
affected her NCD so they didnt change their view on this. However, they accepted they 
couldve been better at communicating and explained their position about the NCD sooner 
as well as been more proactive in contacting M. Zenith apologised for this and offered Miss J 
compensation of £150.
Miss J was unhappy with this so she came to our service. She doesnt feel she should be 
held liable for an accident she wasnt involved in and says the claim hasnt been handled 
correctly. To put things right, shed like her NCD to be reinstated and to have adequate 
compensation for the stress caused, which she says is in the category of more than £5,000.
Our investigator looked into matters and didnt feel he could say Zenith had done anything 
wrong in their assessment of or paying the claim, aside from the service issues which they 
acknowledged and apologised for. He didnt feel the level of communication or the time on 
the calls was particularly excessive either given the issues involved. So, taking everything 
into account, he didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. However, given the circumstances, he did 
ask Zenith to show that Miss J wasnt the driver when recording the claim on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) and also consider whether itd reinstate her NCD given the 
circumstances. Zenith agreed to this.
Miss J is unhappy as she feels the compensation should be increased. She has made a 
number of points in support of this, including the following.
 
- Whilst shes pleased Zenith has allowed her NCD, this doesnt change the damage 
that was done before this. Zenith was aware she was vulnerable and pregnant and 
that this whole ordeal was causing her significant stress and panic attacks. She was 
unable to afford a new car insurance policy due to the increased cost caused by 
Zenith accepting the third partys claim. Miss J says this situation has left her 
financially liable and revictimized her for a crime committed against her. This is at a 
crucial time in her life where she requires a car to access healthcare for herself and 
her new baby. She gave examples of the impact this has had on her including not 
being able to meet another mother with her baby to go for a walk which has affected 
her and the social development of her new baby. She also says she struggled to get 
food as she is clinically vulnerable and could only get click and collect slots. 
- The claim was fraudulent as there was no evidence of any damage to her car.
- If Zenith had sought a repayment plan through the courts, the matter wouldve been 
resolved much sooner and in time for the birth of her daughter.
Our investigator corresponded with Miss J on these points and why they didnt change his 
view. He explained that we do put forward recommendations for trouble and upset but this is 
only where we consider the business have done something wrong and they need to put that 
right. So, whilst he was sorry to hear of the stress that has been caused in this matter, he felt 
a lot of the additional stress was the result of the accident, rather than how Zenith dealt with 
it. And he couldnt hold Zenith responsible for this. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.In bringing this complaint, Miss J has made many detailed points. And, while Ive considered 
everything shes said carefully I dont intend to address every point made in this decision. 
This isnt meant as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Having considered this matter, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint. Ill explain why.
As our investigator has explained, Zenith is liable under the Road Traffic Act 1988 in this 
particular situation if a court judgment is obtained in relation to the third partys claim. Whilst 
no judgement was obtained in this matter, I consider it was still fair and reasonable for Zenith 
to settle the third party claim. This is because Zenith is required by law to act as though the 
driver, M, was insured on the policy. And, as M hit an unmanned, parked car, M is likely to 
be held liable for the accident. Settling the matter without court proceedings would reduce 
the likely costs they wouldve been liable for and which wouldve been recorded against the 
claim. Having done so, there is then the issue of how Zenith has recorded this and Ive 
covered this in more detail below.
I note Miss J questions the damage to the third partys vehicle and says this was a 
fraudulent claim which Zenith shouldnt have agreed as there was no evidence of even a 
scratch on her car. She wasnt in the country at the time of the accident so wouldnt have 
seen the damage to the car. However, the police officer who contacted Miss J about this 
incident explained that, whilst her car was driveable, there was very minor damage. And the 
notification of the outcome of the court hearing confirms the defendant pleaded guilty to 
vehicle taking anddamage under £5,000. Ive also seen evidence from the third partys 
insurer to support the claim. So, taking everything into account, I havent seen anything to 
say it was a fraudulent claim or that Zenith settled the claim unreasonably. 
recording the claim and the NCD
I understand why Miss J feels so strongly about this complaint. She wasnt responsible for 
the accident. And she feels Zenith has treated her unfairly because, through no fault of her 
own, the policys NCD has been reduced and her future premiums have been affected. But, 
while I can understand her frustration, that doesnt mean Zenith has done anything wrong. 
Zenith has acknowledged that Miss J wasnt responsible for the accident. But, a NCD is 
exactly that  a discount where no claim has been made. It isnt always allowed even where 
theres no blame associated with an accident.
It might help to explain at this point that insurers often refer to claims as being fault or non-
fault. But these terms dont carry only the ordinary meaning of the word. It would be helpful if 
the wording used to refer to the way claims are recorded was either recovered or not 
recovered instead. I can appreciate that where a customer clearly wasnt at fault for an 
accident  as in Miss Js case here  the wording doesnt reflect what actually happened. 
This can cause upset and frustration. But a fault claim doesnt mean that the policyholder 
was to blame for the accident or claim, just that the insurer hasnt been able to recover its 
cost for settling the claim. So, when a car has been stolen and not recovered, or, as in this 
case, when the damage was caused by a third party and the insurer has been unable to 
recover their costs in full, theyll refer to it as being a fault claim. And, in those 
circumstances, a consumers NCD will be affected. This is why Miss Js NCD is affected by 
the claim in this case.
Insurers record such incidents on CUE and its important to note that, rather than the use of 
the word fault, it is what the industry recognises that word to mean when they look at a 
customers claims history that matters. They dont record them as fault or non-fault claims 
but rather they say whether the NCD has been allowed in the claim. Zenith recorded the 
claim to show it was a bonus disallowed claim. This is because they couldnt recover all of the claim costs. This is consistent with the industrys recognised terminology for this type of 
claim. Only where a full recovery of costs has been made should a claim be recorded as a 
bonus allowed (or non fault) claim. 
I understand Miss Js upset at how the claim was recorded by Zenith. But Im satisfied that 
she was treated fairly and reasonably. And I think Zenith correctly recorded the claim on 
CUE. So, although Zenith has since agreed to allow her NCD and record this on CUE, it isnt 
something I wouldve required them to do. 
recovery from M 
Miss J says the matter wouldve been resolved much sooner Zenith had sought a repayment 
plan through the courts. Although Zenith can recover its outlay from M, Ive seen 
correspondence from her which shows she wont be able to pay this, in full, for a number of 
years. So I dont think Zenith pursuing M any sooner wouldve resulted in the claim being 
paid in full by M and, therefore, change whether the NCD was allowed sooner.
impact on Miss J
The reduction of the NCD, together with the fault claim, affected her ongoing premiums. And 
I understand Miss J says this situation has impacted her in a number of different ways. 
Given that Miss J wasnt at fault for the accident, I can understand why she finds this so 
upsetting. But, for the reasons set out above, Zenith hasnt done anything wrong here. So, 
Zenith isnt responsible for the impact this accident has had on Miss Js NCD or the 
inconvenience she was put to by the accident.
I understand Miss J had to put up with inconvenience and frustration as a result of the 
accident. Zenith accepted they couldve been better at communicating with her and 
explained their position about the NCD sooner as well as being more proactive in contacting 
M. Im also aware Miss J continues to suffer with her well-being as a result of the impact of 
what happened. But I have to distinguish between the distress and upset Miss J suffered 
because of the fact her car was taken by M without consent and involved in an accident and 
the consequences of this, which Zenith isnt responsible for, with what Zenith did or failed to 
do that mightve added to that distress.  
So, Ive thought about Zeniths service very carefully, looking at what they were responsible 
for and balancing the impact of that against the distress and inconvenience Miss J wouldve 
gone through even if those issues hadnt arisen. Having done so, I think its offer of £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience she experienced where Zeniths service fell below what she 
was entitled to expect, over and above the situation she found herself in, is reasonable. And 
this is still open for her to accept.
I know Miss J will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Zenith  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman