DRN-1711689
The complaint
Ms S complained about advice she received from one of Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limiteds advisers1 regarding two Free-Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) pension plans.
What happened
In February 1995 Ms S was advised Ms S to take out an FSAVC plan. She followed the 
advice and took out a plan, with the monthly contribution being £100.
In November 1995 Ms S met the adviser again as her salary had increased and she wanted 
to increase the monthly contribution. Following the meeting Ms S increased the monthly 
contribution (on the existing plan) to £200.
In February 1997 Ms S again met the adviser as shed changed employer and her salary 
had again increased. Following the meeting Ms S took out a new FSAVC plan, with the 
monthly contribution being £400. Ms S stopped paying the £200 into the original plan.
In 2019 Ms S, through a representative, complained to Sun Life as she felt the advice was 
inappropriate and that the FSAVC plans were mis-sold. For the first plan, the representative 
felt the adviser hadnt given Ms S sufficient information about the option of making additional 
voluntary contributions (AVCs) into her occupational pension. For the second plan, the 
representative accepted Ms S was made sufficiently aware of the in-house AVC option; but 
he questioned the reasons behind the advice she was given.
Sun Life partly agreed with Ms Ss complaint:
advice in February 1995  it didnt think Ms S was made fully aware of the AVC option; 
so it wasnt sure that she was able to make an informed decision on taking out the 
FSAVC plan. To put things right, Sun Life offered to calculate any loss Ms S had suffered 
by comparing how much the FSAVC plan was worth with what an in-house AVC plan 
would have been worth had she invested there instead.
advice in November 1995  it was satisfied the adviser discussed the AVC option with 
Ms S; it therefore felt the advice was reasonable.
advice in January 1997  it was again satisfied the adviser discussed the AVC option 
with Ms S. It said she decided to take out the new FSAVC because of flexibility as she 
was likely to move employer at some point, the choice of funds available and she 
previously made contributions into a FSAVC plan. So it again felt the advice was 
reasonable.
Ms S disagreed with Sun Lifes conclusion in relation to the advice given in November 1995 
and January 1997 so she brought her complaint to us.
1 To clarify, the adviser was at the time working for another business that Sun Life has since taken 
over responsibility for. For ease, I will refer to Sun Life throughout my decision.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt it most 
likely that there were discussions between the adviser and Ms S about the comparison 
between the AVC and FSAVC options, and that Ms S was given sufficient information about 
the two. The representative disagreed with our investigators conclusion. He said it had seen 
many people pushed into these plans based on there being a wider fund choice and 
flexibility; and the paperwork later being completed to make it look like a client choice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant rules and our position
For the advice in November 1995, the rules set in 1988 by the Life Assurance and Unit Trust 
Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO) needed to be followed. The relevant Code of Conduct 
said that advisers must maintain a high standard of integrity and fair dealing; exercise due 
skill, care and diligence; and generally take proper account of investors interests. It also said 
that businesses must give regard to the consumers financial position generally and to any 
rights they might have under occupational scheme; and give the consumer all information 
relevant to their dealings with the representative in question.
In May 1996 the regulator issued an update that codified procedures to follow when advising 
on FSAVCs. However, the requirements werent new. They were consistent with having 
regard to the consumer's right to contribute to an AVC arrangement and dealing fairly with 
investors  both of which were requirements set out by LAUTRO.
It seems Ms Ss adviser was working for or tied to Sun Life, so he would have been 
prevented from advising on products from other providers. As the in-house AVC plan was 
likely offered by a different provider he wouldnt have been expected to make a full and 
detailed comparison of the products.
However, tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options were available to 
consumers, and they should mention the generic benefits of that option  including 
potentially lower charges, that added years might be available (on defined benefit/final salary 
schemes) and the employer might top-up or match the consumers contributions. If the 
adviser didnt know and wasnt in a position to find out the specifics of the consumers 
occupational scheme, I would expect them to recommend that the consumer explore the 
options themselves with the scheme before considering whether to take out an FSAVC.
November 1995 advice
The advisers notes in the Fact Find document say that Ms S declined the AVC option even 
though the charges would be lower. Ive also seen a document headed A comparison of In-
house AVCs and Free-Standing AVCs which provides generic information on the two options 
 including that the charges on AVCs are usually significantly lower than on FSAVCs; and 
that employers will sometimes match any contributions paid into an AVC.
I cant obviously be sure precisely what was discussed at the time. But I conclude from the 
above documents that its most likely some sort of discussion about the AVC option took 
place and that some of the discussion was about the AVC option probably being cheaper 
and the potential for AVC contributions to be matched by the employer. I therefore conclude 
that the adviser most likely met the relevant requirements in this respect.There is no reference in the documentation Ive seen to Ms S being told to explore the AVC 
option herself with her occupational scheme. I think its most likely that if it was discussed it 
would have been noted down by the adviser. Accordingly, the fact there is no reference to it 
suggests to me that no such discussion took place.
Even if a discussion had taken place and Ms S made enquiries about the AVC option, I think 
its most likely that Ms S would still have increased the monthly contribution to the existing 
FSAVC plan. I think this is supported by the fact that Ms S proceeded with a new FSAVC 
plan following the advice in January 1997 (when the adviser did meet the regulatory 
requirements), which in my opinion is a good indication of what she likely would have done 
in November 1995 had he met the same requirements. It also seems from comparisons 
done by actuaries of Ms Ss first pension scheme that her employer didnt pay additional 
contributions and the scheme didnt provide additional subsidised benefits.
January 1997 advice
The argument here is slightly different to the one above because Ms S accepts that the 
adviser did what he was supposed to do in respect of drawing her attention to the in-house 
AVC option and the generic differences between that and the FSAVC option. The issue is 
more over the reasons behind the recommendation. The representative outlined four main 
concerns:
1. two reasons given  portability and fund choice  were a consistent strategy advisers 
used at the time
2. no assessment as to Ms Ss attitude to risk was done, yet reference is made to high risk 
investment funds
3. the fact Ms S paid into a previous FSAVC isnt relevant to the recommendation
4. the fact waiver of premium doesnt apply was noted but there was no discussion of the 
in-house arrangements in this respect.
I think its important first of all to point out that the adviser was only able to advise on 
products he could sell  he wasnt free to recommend other products on the market or that 
Ms S take the AVC option through her employers scheme. His obligation in that respect was 
limited to what Ive outlined above.
Im not persuaded the arguments put forward show that the recommendation was 
unsuitable. For the first point, the representative talks generally rather than outlining how 
Sun Lifes practice made the recommendation unsuitable in Ms Ss specific set of 
circumstances. For example, he mentioned that most occupational schemes had an 
excellent choice of funds which may have matched Sun Lifes options. But I havent seen 
anything showing that Ms Ss occupational scheme had choices that did match Sun Lifes 
options. But even if it did I dont think that necessarily makes the recommendation 
unsuitable. It would have been for Ms S to research that herself and make her own decision.
The representative also referred to it not being possible to continue contributing to the plan if 
Ms S moved abroad or into non-pensionable employment. But to my knowledge neither of 
those circumstances happened.
I havent seen details of any assessment carried out as to Ms Ss attitude to risk. However, 
in the application form she completed for the 1997 sale she ticked both balanced and 
aggressive when she indicated her attitude towards risk and reward. This ties in with forms 
from the November 1995 transaction  the Fact Find document showed a mix between 3 
(being medium) and 5 (being high) in respect of risk and expected returns; and the advisers 
notes said risk category is 3/4/5.This suggests to me that Ms S at the time had a medium to high attitude to risk. She was 
also still many years from retirement and I think she would have likely had the capacity to 
take a medium to high risk at that stage. Ive seen no indication that what she invested in 
was unsuitable in her circumstances.
I note the representatives point about the previous FSAVC plan seemingly being irrelevant. 
But I dont think that changes the fact that I havent seen anything which shows that the 
overall recommendation was unsuitable. And finally, Im not persuaded that the waiver of 
premium necessarily falls under the guise of generic differences the adviser was obliged to 
point out.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman