DRN-2853662
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc processed an international money transfer in such 
a way that he incurred unnecessary charges.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr R carried out an international money transfer. He noted that the transfer 
incurred a fee due to being routed through an intermediary bank. Mr R wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Rs complaint but noted that the choice of intermediary bank was 
undertaken by the bank to which the funds were being sent. Because of this, HSBC didnt 
feel that theyd done anything wrong, and so they didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also noted that the choice of 
intermediary bank wasnt one over which HSBC have any control, and so they also didnt 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr R to discover that he had incurred 
a fee charged by an intermediary bank for this one transfer, especially when similar transfers 
that hed instructed hadnt incurred such fees.
When an international monetary transfer is instructed, the funds can only be transferred 
between the sending and receiving banks directly if a direct relationship exists between 
those two banks to enable such a transfer. In this instance, HSBC have confirmed that no 
such direct relationship exists, and so the transfer had to be routed via an intermediary bank, 
and it was this intermediary bank which charged the fees that Mr R is unhappy with.
The choice of which bank to use as an intermediary bank is a decision which is made by the 
bank due to receive the funds being transferred. This means that HSBC  as the sending 
bank  didnt make the choice of which bank would be the intermediary bank but rather 
processed the transfer to the intermediary bank as nominated by the receiving bank.
As such, while I can appreciate that Mr R is unhappy that he incurred a charge from the 
intermediary bank, I cant conclude that HSBC should be in any way held responsible for this 
charge. And this is because the fee was charged by an intermediary bank, the use of which 
was a necessity, and the choice of which wasnt made by HSBC.
Mr R has provided correspondence between himself and the recipient bank which suggests 
that HSBC might have transferred the money to the intermediary bank by CHAPS, and that it 
was this payment method that incurred the disputed charge. However, HSBC have been 
able to demonstrate that the transfer was in fact initiated using the SWIFT payment system - 
as would be expected for such an overseas transfer - and that the transfer was routed 
through the intermediary bank of the recipient banks choosing.
Im aware that Mr R has made several similar transfers that havent incurred a charge, but 
this appears to prompt the question of why the intermediary bank hasnt applied charges in a 
consistent manner, and therefore sits outside of the remit of this investigation. 
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that HSBC have acted unreasonably or 
unfairly here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint. I trust that Mr R 
will understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman