DRN-4332016
The complaint
Mrs B complains that NewDay Ltd discriminated against her on the basis of her gender when
reducing her credit limit on her credit card, She was also unhappy with NewDays
explanations and lack of customer care.
What happened
In August 2022 Mrs B received a text (later followed up with a letter) advising her that her
credit limit had been reduced from £3,550 to £1,500. The reason given was that she was
rarely using her full credit limit which might mean she didnt need as much access to credit
as she currently had on her credit card. The text message said NewDay felt it was more
suitable for her level of usage.
Mrs B was unhappy with this. She paid off her credit card in full every Sunday. She pointed
out that her husband also had a NewDay credit card which he used less than her, but he
hadnt had his credit limit lowered. As a result she believed that NewDay was treating her
differently to her husband which is gender discrimination. She further pointed out that this
would reduce her credit score. During an online chat with NewDay the adviser said it was an
automated process, which Mrs B wasnt happy with. The adviser transferred Mrs Bs call to
another adviser to get her credit limit to be reinstated. But she was then advised that she
wasnt eligible for a reinstatement.
NewDay reviewed Mrs Bs complaint and explained that it had made the decision to lower
the limit because Mrs B wasnt fully utilising her credit limit. It didnt agree that it had
discriminated against her as the decision was in line with its terms and conditions. It did
however say that its adviser hadnt followed the correct process in respect of getting the limit
restored. NewDay arranged to reinstate the limit and paid Mrs B £40 for the upset and
inconvenience caused.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that whilst she didnt
think Mrs B was treated any worse than her husband due to her gender, NewDay hadnt, in
her view, done enough to address Mrs Bs concerns. She proposed that NewDay provide a
further explanation as to what was considered when it reviewed her account and that it pay a
further £200 compensation.
NewDay disagreed. Whilst it said its final response letters could have been clearer, it didnt
feel that not explaining some of the factors it takes into account when deciding whether to
reduce the credit limit, merited an award of £200. It was prepared to offer a further £50.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think that Mrs Bs selection for a credit 
limit reduction would be likely to lead to a finding of discrimination. But I did consider that she 
had been given poor customer service. And as NewDay recognised its responses could 
have been clearer and had proposed paying a further £50, I said that that was a fair offer.
NewDay accepted my provisional findings.
Mrs B was unhappy with my findings and the proposed award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below, in italics:
When NewDay lowered Mrs Bs credit limit it provided the following explanation in its letter 
of 24 August 2022:
Weve noticed youre rarely using your full credit limit, which we think might mean you dont
need as much access to credit as you currently have on your ..card. With this in mind, from
today we have reduced your credit limit from £3,550.00 to £1,500.00. This should still leave
you with enough of a limit to continue spending at a similar level to the past 12 months.
The terms of the credit agreement for the card state at paras 1 and 18.2:
1 We will decide your credit limit and tell you what it is. We may change it at any time and
let you know about any change.
18.2 We can change your credit limit or cash limit under conditions 1 and 5.1*. We will only
reduce your credit limit or cash limit if we have good reason, for example your circumstances
change, there is a significantly increased risk you may not be able to pay or we are 
concerned about fraud or the security of your Card.
*concerning cash advances.
So, under its terms and conditions, New Day can decrease the credit limit if it has good
reason to do so. I bear in mind that the process allows the customer to apply for the credit
limit to be reinstated, and Mrs B was ultimately successful in this respect. Mrs B says that
her husbands credit limit was not decreased and that this is evidence of discrimination.
Its not my role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the
Courts. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to
decide that, however, I have to take a number of things into account including relevant law
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although it would be
for the Courts to say whether or not NewDay has breached the Equality Act 2010, I am
required to take that Act into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Under the Equality Act a business might be discriminating against a customer if it treated
them unfavourably because of a protected characteristic (which includes someones sex).
Mrs B alleges that this is direct discrimination - treating someone less favourably than
someone else -because of a protected characteristic.
The selection of Mrs Bs account was an automated process and the factors that lead to that
selection are commercially sensitive. But I bear in mind that Mr Bs position was different to
Mrs Bs. For example he hadnt had the card for the same length of time and had a different
credit limit. So whilst I can understand her annoyance at being selected for the reduction I
dont think that the fact that her husband wasnt also selected would be likely to lead to a
finding of discrimination.
I do think that Mrs B was given poor customer service when she did the online chat. The
letter setting out the credit limit said, please let us know as soon as possible if you want to
keep your previous credit limit of £3,550. And as Mrs B had been using her card responsibly
NewDay would have had to have a good reason not to reinstate the limit if she wanted to.The initial reason given for Mrs B not being eligible for the reinstatement was This would be
down to Business policy surrounding limit caps. we do not allow for lending beyond particular
account and multiple account level limit caps. which doesnt really make much sense, and I
can understand that this would have caused anxiety if it implied that Mrs B had exceeded
her limit. As NewDay said the adviser followed the wrong process I think it was fair of it to
pay her £40.
As for NewDays explanations to Mrs B, I understand she didnt like the generic nature of the
responses. In the text sent to her Newday said that it feels the reduction might be more
appropriate to her usage or that it thinks her not fully using the credit limit might mean you
dont need as much access to credit as you currently have. I appreciate that NewDay
making assumptions about Mrs Bs circumstances would have been annoying but I dont
think it would be realistic to provide a tailored response to each customer. I dont think it was
unfair to apply an automated procedure.
I think NewDay did reasonably explain why her credit limit was being reduced, as Ive set out
above, in its letter of 24 August 2022. It referred to her past 12 months usage of the card.
And she was using a small proportion of her credit limit each month (well below the lower
limit proposed). NewDay said its responses could have been clearer and for that proposed a
payment of a further £50. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances of this case."
I understand that Mrs B is unhappy with my provisional findings, and continues to believe 
that NewDay discriminated against her on the grounds of her gender. However I think that 
Ive clearly set out why I dont think that was the case. And that Ive set out what I believe to 
be the appropriate award in this case.
I remain persuaded by my provisional findings. These are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
My final decision
NewDay has already made an offer to pay a further £50 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that NewDay should pay Mrs B £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman