DRN-2873868
Complaint
Mrs G says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly added overdraft charges to her account 
when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Gs concerns. He didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds charged Mrs G over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mrs G if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her account in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mrs G was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mrs G fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Lloyds continued charging 
Mrs G even though it knew she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was 
the case. Having thought about everything, I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mrs G unfairly 
or unreasonably here though. 
Ive also looked through Mrs Gs statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that 
Lloyds ought to have been aware that Mrs G might have been struggling. Mrs G may argue 
her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was struggling. But I cant 
see that she ever exceeded her limit in the way shes suggested.  
I also think its fair to say that there were significant periods when Mrs Gs account balance 
was in credit. And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs G 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions being made from the account too. Equally the amount being 
credited to Mrs Gs account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable 
prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any stage either  even allowing for the payments 
she was making to her joint mortgage.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs G wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Lloyds to potential financial difficulty. So, in these 
circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with the interest, 
fees and charges it added. And I dont think Lloyds unfairly charged Mrs G in circumstances 
where it ought to have realised that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Ive also seen what Mrs G has said about being refused a loan to clear her overdraft after 
she was told shed be eligible for one. But this isnt something that shes complained to 
Lloyds about before. And as our service is only usually able to get involved once a firm has 
had a chance to review a customers concerns, Mrs G will need to contact Lloyds about this 
matter in the first instance. 
Having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I 
realise that this will be very disappointing for Mrs G  especially as its taken some time for 
her case to reach this stage. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and at least feel that her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im hot upholding Mrs Gs complaint I would remind Lloyds of its obligation to treat 
Mrs G with forbearance and due consideration should it be the case that shes currently in 
financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman