DRN-3184292
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) sent a letter about renewing a home 
emergency policy which had already been cancelled, inconveniencing her as she had to 
contact it about it. She wants compensation for the inconvenience suffered. 
What happened
Mrs V had a home emergency policy with another business (Ill call H) which was 
underwritten by Aviva, which shed previously cancelled. She then received a letter from 
Aviva about renewing the policy. Mrs V says she contacted H, who said to contact Aviva. 
She sent an email to Aviva asking someone to call her. Aviva says it called the same day, 
but Mrs V couldnt discuss it then, so a call was arranged for a few days later. 
Mrs V explained what had happened and emailed the letter she had received. Aviva looked 
into it and called Mrs V back later that day. It says it explained she didnt have an active 
policy so it wouldnt be renewed. It said no premiums had been taken by direct debit since 
the policy had been cancelled and it would look into why the letter had been sent. It 
confirmed the same details by email later that day. 
A week later Mrs V contacted Aviva for an update. It says it tried calling her back that day 
and later emailed to ask if Mrs V was alright. It emailed again the next day confirming that 
an IT problem had resulted in letters being incorrectly issued to a number of customers who 
had previously had cover with H. It apologised for this.
Mrs V said that she had been inconvenienced and this should be included with an earlier 
complaint shed already referred to our service. Aviva said if Mrs V explained how shed 
been materially inconvenience it would look into it. Mrs V said shed had to make and send 
numerous calls and emails to sort things out. She said she wanted a final response issued 
so she could refer this complaint to our service.
Aviva issued a final response rejecting her complaint. It apologised for the letter being 
incorrectly sent but said it felt it had responded promptly to resolve the situation.
Mrs V referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it.
She said Mrs V hadnt suffered any financial loss from the error and Aviva had promptly 
confirmed there was no active policy which could be renewed. She said Avivas apology was 
a reasonable response to the error and it hadnt treated her unfairly.
Mrs V said shed had to make at least five calls to chase the error which our service hadnt 
considered. As Mrs V disagrees it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs V has another complaint with our service but Im not considering that here.
I can see why the letter prompted Mrs V to contact Aviva, but I think it dealt with the situation 
fairly and quickly. It confirmed on the same day that there was no active policy, meaning it 
couldnt be renewed, and it apologised for the error. It also confirmed that no premiums had 
been taken since the policy had been cancelled. I think this promptly clarified the main issue 
minimising any concern Mrs V might have had. And, the incidental point of what specific 
error had generated the letter was also investigated and explained within a week or so, a 
reasonable timeframe.  
Whilst there were several calls and emails, I think many of these were somewhat self-
generated with messages being left and returned with both Mrs V and Aviva not able to 
immediately contact each other on several occasions. 
As for the cause of the issue, unfortunately IT problems do occasionally occur. They can be 
annoying and how a business responds to them is important. I think Avivas prompt 
clarification did resolve the issue, so it was reasonable response. I havent seen evidence of 
any financial loss, so I think the inconvenience to Mrs V was minor and the apology offered 
by Aviva was a fair resolution to this complaint.
Whilst I know Mrs V will be disappointed with my decision, I dont think Aviva has treated her 
unfairly and it neednt do anything further.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman