DRN-3505135
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that TSB Bank plc closed his account with giving him reasonable notice of 
their intention to do so.
What happened
Mr C had a TSB bank account that was in a position of arrears. On 20 January 2022, Mr C 
telephoned TSB to discuss the arrears on his account, at which time he learned that TSB 
had made the decision to close his account as of 1 February 2022. Mr C wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
TSB discussed Mr Cs complaint with him and explained theyd sent a letter on 1 December 
2021 advising that they intended to close the account on 2 February 2022. TSB accepted 
that Mr C may not have received that letter and so made a payment of £109 (£9 costs and 
£100 compensation) to Mr C to a bank account he held with another provider.
Mr C didnt feel that TSBs response to his complaint went far enough, and so he asked for 
his complaint to be reopened. TSB looked at Mr Cs complaint again, but they felt the 
response theyd previously issued in regard to the complaint, as described above, already 
represented a fair and reasonable response to what had happened. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked at this complaint. But they also felt that the response that TSB had initially provided, 
including the £109 payment that TSB had made to Mr C, was a fair outcome given the 
circumstances of what had happened. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr C might have been upset to have only learned on 20 January 2022 
that TSB were intending to close his account with them in approximately a week and a halfs 
time. Especially as Mr C doesnt appear to have received the letter that was sent to him at 
the start of December 2021 by TSB that gave Mr C official notice of TSBs intentions.
However, I am satisfied from the information provided to this service by TSB that TSB did 
send that letter in early December 2021 to Mr C, and I note that the letter was sent to the 
address that Mr C has confirmed to this service is his correct address.
This service wouldnt generally hold a business such as TSB accountable for the non-
delivery of a correctly sent letter, and this is because the delivery of such a letter, once 
posted, is the responsibility of a postal service company over which TSB have no control.
That being said, in this instance its notable that Mr C telephoned TSB on several occasions 
between the letter being issued on 1 December 2021 and when he was told by a TSB agent 
on 20 January 2022 that his account would soon be closed, including telephone calls on 8 
and 17 December 2021  at which times I feel that TSB could have verbally confirmed with 
Mr C that his account was scheduled for closure. But unfortunately, this wasnt done.
TSB have acknowledged that Mr C might not have received the notice of account closure 
letter that was sent to him, and that therefore his becoming aware that his account would be 
closed at relatively short notice may have been distressing and inconvenient for him. And in 
their response to Mr Cs complaint, TSB made a payment of £109 to Mr C, which included 
£100 as compensation for any trouble and upset that Mr C may have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. However, given the full circumstances here, the 
£100 compensation that TSB have already paid to Mr C does feel fair to me, and its 
commensurate with what I would have instructed TSB to pay, had they not already done so.  
In arriving at this position Ive considered that TSBs terms include that TSB are entitled to 
close a customers account, so long as they provide that customer with at least two months 
notice of their intention to do so. And, as explained, I am satisfied that TSB sent a correctly 
addressed letter giving Mr C such notice two months in advance of the scheduled account 
closure date, on 1 December 2021. 
Its unfortunate that Mr C didnt receive that letter. But given that the letter was addressed 
correctly, I dont feel that was TSBs fault. And while Mr C may have been upset to learn of 
the account closure, its evident that Mr C already held another bank account  the account 
to which he asked TSB to pay the compensation amount  and so it wasnt the case that    
Mr C was being left without any form of banking facilities by TSB. Finally, Mr C learned of the 
closure ten days before the scheduled close date, which is less than ideal, but less impactful 
than might have been the case had he learned of the closure after it had happened.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but in consideration of all the above I 
do feel that TSB have already issued a fair response to Mr Cs complaint. And it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action. I hope that Mr 
C will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman