DRN-2179235
The complaint
Miss M has complained that the Automobile Association Insurance Services failed to explain 
to her adequately whether she still had breakdown cover causing her inconvenience.
What happened
Miss M was employed by the AA and as part of her employee benefits, she was given free 
breakdown cover only needing to pay for the Breakdown Repair cover of £145.
Miss M then left her employment in December 2019 having worked there since 2014. She 
said she received no communications from AA, she discovered £145 was debited from her 
bank account and then returned a few days later. 
Miss M said she made several calls to the AA to see if her membership was still active and 
to explain why the money was taken out of her account and then refunded. Her query was 
finally sent to the Breakdown Repair team who confirmed she didnt have an active policy. 
Miss M complained and the AA apologised and gave her £20 compensation. However, Ms M 
wasnt satisfied with this and thought the 5 year, or 10-year gold cover should not be given 
back to her and she would like a full years premium refunded due to the errors the AA 
made. She said she wasnt aware her staff membership had been closed. She didnt receive 
a renewal reminder of the Breakdown Repair Cover. She was told on three occasions that 
her membership was active when it has in fact been closed. She was unhappy money was 
taken out of her account and then refunded.
The investigator did think the AA had done enough to make Miss M aware her employee 
benefits had ceased. Notwithstanding that she also felt the AA had done enough in providing 
£20 compensation for the errors it did make. So, she thought Miss Ms complaint shouldnt 
be upheld.
Miss M didnt agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
My role and the role of this service is to assess whether the AA did anything wrong and if it 
did whether it did enough to put things right. My role isnt to punish or fine the AA for 
anything it might have done wrong.
Its important to note that Miss Ms membership of the AA on the terms she had was 
provided solely as a benefit of her employment. So, in that regard as an employee I consider 
her knowledge of how things worked is more extensive than a mere consumer too. 
Furthermore, there are different duties to employees than to consumers. Most of which 
arent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and are therefore nor part of our 
jurisdiction in real terms. But for the fact that these issues mainly arose well after Miss M 
ceased to be an employee, I would consider the nature of her complaint not be within our 
jurisdiction to help her. However, the AA has raised no issues with this service dealing with 
her complaint.
The AA have shown us that its HR dept sent Miss M an email on 16 December 2019 
explaining that her staff membership had ceased following the end of her employment. That 
email clearly explains what Miss M had to do to continue her membership as the investigator 
fully detailed.
It also showed us it sent a renewal letter to her home address which wasnt returned by the 
postal service. And that Miss M confirmed in a telephone call on 26 November 2019 that she 
had received the renewal invite. 
Therefore, since the email was sent to the correct address and Miss M said she received the 
renewal invite  there is not nothing to show me that the AA didnt send these out to her. So, 
I dont agree that Miss M wasnt aware her staff membership had ceased or had not received 
her renewal invite too. Once the AA has shown us it sent correspondence to the right email 
or postal address, it is deemed to be received by the recipient. Thats because, quite 
obviously, if it used the correct address and it wasnt returned as undeliverable either by 
email system or post service there is no evidence to prove consequently that the AA didnt 
send it, regardless of the fact that Miss M might say she didnt receive it.
 
The AA confirmed that when Miss M phoned on 15 and 20 February 2020, that due to 
system errors she was told the wrong information that her membership was active. It also 
explained her policy renewed automatically on 1 January 2020 on the basis of the renewal 
invite sent in 2019 but that this was an error because Miss M had left her employment after 
the date of renewal invite but before the policy renewal date. This is was why it took £145 
from her bank account. However, I consider it reasonable that it refunded it promptly.
Theres no reason in my view why any employee benefit to include this AA membership 
should continue after the employee had left the organisation, so I consider the AAs only 
error to be the confirmation in February 2020 that her membership was still active when it 
wasnt. But since that was after its email to her from HR and I dont consider this error 
caused Miss M much inconvenience. 
Therefore, I consider its compensation of £20 to be wholly adequate in these circumstances. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman