DRN-4454551
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish 
Widows) when transferring the proceeds of three Personal Pension Plans (PPP) to an 
existing PPP. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 30 October 2023. Ive recapped the background below:
On 3 August 2023, Mr W contacted Scottish Widows, requesting the transfer of three PPPs 
he held with a provider Ill refer to as, Provider P, to his existing PPP. Scottish Widows 
agreed to make the transfer request. 
Mr W contacted Scottish Widows for an update on 8 August 2023 and was told the transfer 
was still outstanding. 
On 11 August 2022, Provider P wrote to Scottish Widows, confirming that the proceeds of 
one of Mr Ws PPPs (under reference ending 415) had been successfully transferred to it.
On the same day, Scottish Widows updated Mr W, explaining that while one of his PPPs had 
been transferred, its request for his other PPPs (under references ending 001 and 000) had 
been rejected as it hadnt provided the correct ceding reference numbers. Scottish Widows 
asked Mr W to contact Provider P directly to confirm the correct details so the transfer could 
be resubmitted. Shortly thereafter, Mr W provided the details Scottish Widows required.
On 22 September 2022, Scottish Widows sent Mr W confirmation that the proceeds of his 
PPP ending 415 had been received and invested in line with his existing PPP on 16 August 
2022. 
Mr W later contacted Scottish Widows to complain about how long the transfer was taking, 
explaining that as he had no other source of income, he was heavily reliant on the transfers 
going through.
On 3 October 2022, Scottish Widows sent its final response to Mr Ws complaint. Although it 
didnt uphold it regarding the outstanding transfer of the two PPPs, it acknowledged that the 
service it had provided was poor and apologised for not completing the transfer on time. For 
the inconvenience hed suffered, Scottish Widows arranged for £50 to be sent to Mr W. 
Scottish Widows sent a transfer request to Provider P for Mr Ws remaining PPPs via the 
electronic transfer system, Origo, on 4 October 2022. 
On 13 October 2022, Provider P wrote to Scottish Widows, acknowledging receipt of its 
request and confirming that the proceeds of Mr Ws remaining PPPs had been sent via direct 
credit on the same day. It asked Scottish Widows to confirm via Origo that the funds had 
been received.
Having received no response, Provider P wrote to Scottish Widows again on 26 October 
2022, quoting Mr Ws PPP number and asking it to update the transfer status on Origo since 
the requested funds had been sent. A further chaser was sent on 1 November 2022, again 
quoting Mr Ws PPP number.
On 29 November 2022, Scottish Widows emailed Provider P, stating that although the funds 
for Mr Ws remaining PPPs were received on 27 October 2022, his Scottish Widows PPP 
number hadnt been used as a reference. Because of this, the funds were returned to 
Provider P on 7 November 2022. Scottish Widows asked Provider P to send the proceeds 
for Mr Ws two PPPs again.
Mr W later referred his complaint to our Service and efforts to complete the outstanding 
transfer continued. 
Having spoken with Provider P on 30 November 2022, Scottish Widows emailed it on 19 
December 2022 asking for an update on the transfer. It says it chased Provider P for 
responses on 4,12 and 20 January 2023, repeating that as the funds Provider P previously 
sent hadnt included Mr Ws Scottish Widows PPP number, it had returned them and asked 
for them to be sent again using the correct reference. 
Provider P wrote to Scottish Widows on 3 February 2023, advising that Mr Ws outstanding 
funds had been resent via Origo and needed to be accepted. 
Scottish Widows says it checked Origo and initially saw no updates for Mr Ws policy. 
However, following an additional search carried out by its finance team, Mr Ws funds were 
located and applied to his PPP. The investment date was backdated to 3 February 2023 as 
this was when the funds were received.
As I understand it, it wasnt until April 2023 that Mr W received confirmation that the 
proceeds of his remaining PPPs had been received and credited to his Scottish Widows 
PPP. 
Scottish Widows reconsidered Mr Ws complaint and issued a further response. In summary, 
it said the delay in Mr Ws transfer being completed was due to the correct reference number 
not being provided by Provider P on each transfer request. Any funds which couldnt be 
reconciled with Mr Ws PPP were returned to Provider P and this was the correct action to 
take in the circumstances.
Mr W has confirmed that while Scottish Widows later paid him a further £100 compensation 
for what happened with his transfer, it continued to blame Provider P for the delays.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. In summary, he said:
Letters Scottish Widows received from Provider P had always included the correct 
reference - Mr Ws Scottish Widows PPP number.
Based on correspondence it was sent, Scottish Widows shouldve been able to 
locate and apply the transferred funds for Mr Ws remaining PPPs to his existing PPP 
on 13 October 2022.
Given how long the transfer took, Scottish Widows should pay Mr W a further £200, 
bringing total compensation to £350.
Scottish Widows should backdate the investment of the proceeds of Mr Ws two 
PPPs (under references ending 001 and 000) to 13 October 2022, ensuring the funds 
are invested in line with the same split used for the transfer of Mr Ws first PPP 
(under reference ending 415) on 22 sept 2022.Mr W accepted our investigators findings. However, as Scottish Widows didnt respond, the 
matter was passed to me for a decision. And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why, but before I do, I 
should note that although our investigator has repeatedly asked for evidence of what 
happened during the transfer process, including copies of correspondence exchanged and 
records of transfer requests and responses sent via Origo, Scottish Widows has either not 
provided a full response or failed to respond at all.
Scottish Widows accepts that the service it provided Mr W with fell below its normal 
standards and that his transfer wasnt completed on time. But the limited information it has 
provided  and the fact that another party was involved in the process  makes it hard to 
determine the extent to which its acts or omissions delayed the transfer. Similarly, its difficult 
for me to assess the impact of Scottish Widows actions and whether the way it has sought 
to put things right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Our rules are available in full in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook at 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP. I think the following rules are relevant in 
this case:
DISP 3.5.9R says:
The Ombudsman may: ()
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested.
DISP 3.5.14R says:
If a respondent [in this case, Scottish Widows] fails to comply with a time limit, the 
Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint; and
(2) include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by 
that failure in any award which [she] decides to make.
In this case, I dont think it would be fair for me to wait indefinitely for Scottish Widows to 
answer our investigators questions and provide the information hes asked for. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened considering the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. And given Scottish Widows failure to clearly explain and provide supporting 
evidence of what happened during the transfer process, I think its reasonable that I take 
account of that failure.
There is no doubt that the transfer of Mr Ws PPPs was protracted and that there were 
delays. What I need to decide here is whether, based on delays it caused, Scottish Widows 
has taken appropriate steps to put matters right and compensate Mr W for any financial 
losses he may have sustained.Although Scottish Widows and Provider P were involved in the transfer process, my findings 
are based on Scottish Widows acts or omissions as its the party Mr W has complained 
about. Although Provider P may have contributed to delays with the transfer, Im unable to 
make a finding on its actions. But this doesnt mean Ive ignored the impact of any delays 
Provider P may have caused, or that Ive held Scottish Widows responsible for these.
Overall, I have real sympathy for Mr W. Its clear to me that the smooth and timely transfer of 
his PPPs was of great importance to him. As Mr W later shared with Scottish Widows, his 
PPPs were his only source of income, and he was counting on the transfer going through 
without incident. So, I can understand why Mr W was concerned and ultimately disappointed 
with how long the transfer took. 
As his PPP provider and the receiving scheme, I think Mr W had a reasonable expectation 
that Scottish Widows would act in his best interests, doing all it could to ensure the transfer 
was completed as soon as it could be. Unfortunately, I cant see that Scottish Widows did so 
on this occasion. 
Electronic transfers, using real-time software packages like Origo, allow transfers to take 
place without the need for paperwork to be exchanged. Providers can submit and respond to 
requests via the Origo platform, meaning the transfer process should be faster and more 
streamlined, often being completed in days and weeks, as opposed to months.
In keeping with this, one of Mr Ws three PPPs was successfully transferred within nine 
working days of him asking Scottish Widows to process it. Although Scottish Widows hasnt 
shared its service standard for completing transfers, based on everything Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the first transfer occurred within a reasonable timeframe and without avoidable 
delay. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for Mr Ws remaining PPPs, which werent 
transferred until almost six months after his original request. Clearly, the transfer shouldnt 
have taken this long.
The first notable delay appears to have happened shortly after Provider P told Scottish 
Widows that its transfer request for Mr Ws remaining PPPs had been rejected because the 
correct ceding reference numbers hadnt been provided. Scottish Widows asked Mr W to 
confirm the correct references, but even though he did so on the same day, Scottish Widows 
didnt resubmit the transfer request to Provider P until much later. 
During this time, Mr W complained about how long the transfer was taking. Although Scottish 
Widows answered the complaint and awarded £50 for poor customer service, it rejected any 
responsibility for the delayed transfer of the Mr Ws remaining PPPs. Im unable to agree 
with Scottish Widows position here. 
As Scottish Widows had the information it needed to resubmit Mr Ws transfer request for his 
remaining PPPs on 11 August 2022, I think its reasonable to expect it to have made this 
request on the same day or, at most, within five working days, so by 18 August 2022. But in 
Mr Ws case, Scottish Widows didnt make the request until 4 October 2022  almost two 
months later. In the absence of any explanation for this delay, I think its fair to conclude that 
it was avoidable, and that Scottish Widows was responsible for it.
Upon receiving Scottish Widows transfer request, Provider P sent Mr Ws remaining PPP 
funds to Scottish Widows within seven working days  by 13 October 2022. And following 
this, on two separate occasions, it asked Scottish Widows to confirm receipt of the funds. I 
cant see that Scottish Widows ever responded. 
If Scottish Widows had resubmitted the transfer request when I think it shouldve  on 18 
August 2022  I think its reasonable to assume that as it did in October 2022, Provider P couldve sent the remaining funds seven working days later, on 29 August 2022. Following 
this, the funds couldve been invested within the same amount of time (three working days) it 
took for the proceeds of Mr Ws first PPP to be invested following Scottish Widows receipt of 
them. This means the funds wouldve been invested on 1 September 2022, almost five 
months earlier than when the transfer and investment were actually completed on 3 
February 2023.
It wasnt until 29 November 2022  thirty-three working days after Mr Ws funds had been 
sent  that Scottish Widows contacted Provider P to confirm that although the funds had 
been received, theyd been returned because Mr Ws Scottish Widows PPP number hadnt 
been used as the reference on the transfer.
I havent seen any evidence of the reference Provider P gave when sending Mr Ws funds to 
Scottish Widows. So, in the absence of this, Ive considered what, on balance, likely 
happened, bearing in mind the evidence thats available.
Im conscious that of the correspondence Ive seen that Provider P sent to Scottish Widows 
during the transfer process, it repeatedly (and correctly) quoted Mr Ws Scottish Widows 
PPP number as the reference. Notably, it did this with the transfer of Mr Ws first PPP and in 
letters it sent to Scottish Widows on 13 October 2022 on 26 October 2022 regarding Mr Ws 
remaining PPPs. Given Provider Ps consistency quoting the correct reference number to 
Scottish Widows during the transfer process, I think its reasonable to expect that it wouldve 
done the same when confirming via Origo that Mr Ws outstanding PPP funds had been 
sent. 
But even if Provider P hadnt provided the correct reference number (to be clear, I think it 
most likely did), I think that Provider Ps 13 October 2022 letter to Scottish Widows, 
confirming that Mr Ws remaining funds had been sent, contained enough information 
(including the relevant Scottish Widows PPP number) for the funds to be located and 
reconciled with Mr Ws plan.
As Ive already said, Scottish Widows appears to have ignored Provider Ps confirmation 
letter and chaser; not confirming it had received Mr Ws funds until 29 November 2022. 
Ive seen nothing which explains the delay or why Scottish Widows waited so long to follow 
up on funds it had requested almost two months prior. And bearing in mind that Mr W had 
already expressed concern about how long the transfer was taking, and Scottish Widows 
acknowledged that it had already provided poor customer service, its disappointing to see 
that it delayed matters further with seemingly little regard for the impact this would have on 
Mr W.
Ive considered what ultimately led to Mr Ws outstanding funds eventually being allocated to 
his policy in February 2023. Scottish Widows says that Mr Ws funds couldnt be located as 
there were no updates from Provider P via Origo for his policy. But it goes on to say that 
when its finance team carried out a search, the funds were successfully located and applied 
to Mr Ws policy. Although Scottish Widows hasnt explained what its finance team searched 
for which enabled it to locate the funds, I think its reasonable assume that it wouldve been 
something it couldve searched for when Provider P sent the funds to it for the first time in 
October 2022. If Scottish Widows had proactively searched for Mr Ws funds in October 
2022 as it did in February 2023, I think its reasonable to assume that it wouldve likely had 
the same success and located the missing funds. And in doing so, Mr Ws transfer couldve 
been completed much sooner than it was. For the reasons Ive already given, I think this 
couldve happened on 1 September 2022.
Theres limited information about what exactly happened during the first transfer attempt 
where Scottish Widows says Provider P advised that the incorrect ceding scheme reference had been provided for two of Mr Ws PPPs. But it seems unusual that Scottish Widows 
transfer request  made on behalf of Mr W, at the same time, and using the information hed 
provided about his PPPs  wouldve included the correct ceding scheme reference for one of 
Mr Ws three PPPs and not all of them. 
As I havent seen enough to be satisfied that Scottish Widows errors prevented the transfer 
from completing on 16 August 2022, Im unable to conclude that the delayed transfer of Mr 
Ws two PPPs should be backdated to this date.
If everything had happened as I believe it shouldve and the transfer was completed on 1 
September 2022, its clear that much of the distress and inconvenience Mr W experienced 
throughout the transfer process couldve been avoided. Unfortunately, Scottish Widows 
failure to act proactively and pragmatically meant that Mr W was repeatedly put in a position 
where he was having to chase the involved parties to progress the matter and find out what 
was going on with his funds. Ive seen emails Mr W sent our investigator during this time and 
its clear to me that he was worried and confused by how long it was taking for him to gain 
access to funds he was depending on. Considering this and the opportunities Scottish 
Widows missed to get the transfer back on track and communicate effectively with Mr W 
about the status of his transfer, I think Scottish Widows caused Mr B avoidable distress and 
inconvenience.
Scottish Widows has already paid Mr W £150 compensation for the poor service it provided, 
however, for the reasons Ive set out above, I agree with the investigator that it should pay 
Mr W an additional £200, as I consider total compensation of £350 to be fair and reasonable 
and better reflect the impact of Scottish Widows actions and what it couldve done better. 
Although Scottish Widows accepts that it made errors, Im not satisfied the way it proposed 
to put this right  notably, using an investment date of 3 February 2023 for Mr Ws two PPPs 
under references ending 001 and 000  sufficiently compensates Mr W for what happened. 
And while my reasons for intending to uphold this complaint are broadly the same as our 
investigators, I dont think the investment date he used takes into account Scottish Widows 
delay in resubmitting the transfer request in October 2022. Accordingly, Ive set out below 
what I currently think Scottish Widows should do to put matters right.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr W back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for delays caused by Scottish Widows. That means Scottish 
Widows will need to work out whether Mr W has suffered any financial loss by comparing 
what his PPP with it is currently worth (the actual current fund value) with what it wouldve 
been worth (the notional fund value) had Scottish Widows received the proceeds of his 
PPPs under references ending 001 and 000 on 29 August 2022, using an investment date of 
1 September 2022.
If the actual current fund value is higher than the notional value, theres no financial loss. But 
if the notional fund value is higher, Mr W has suffered a financial loss. In that case Scottish 
Widows will need to pay the difference between the actual and the notional fund value.
The compensation amount should be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.If Mr W hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Scottish Widows should provide details of the calculation to Mr W in a clear and simple 
format. 
Scottish Widows should also pay Mr W £200 for trouble and upset caused.
I invited Scottish Widows and Mr W to respond to my provisional decision. Scottish Widows 
accepted my provisional findings. Mr W didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as before (and as set out above). In the 
absence of any further submissions on the matter, I dont have anything to add to what I said 
in my provisional decision. That means Im upholding Mr Ws complaint for the reasons Ive 
previously given. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr W back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for delays caused by Scottish Widows. That means Scottish 
Widows will need to work out whether Mr W has suffered any financial loss by comparing 
what his PPP with it is currently worth (the actual current fund value) with what it wouldve 
been worth (the notional fund value) had Scottish Widows received the proceeds of his 
PPPs under references ending 001 and 000 on 29 August 2022, using an investment date of 
1 September 2022.
If the actual current fund value is higher than the notional value, theres no financial loss. But 
if the notional fund value is higher, Mr W has suffered a financial loss. In that case Scottish 
Widows will need to pay the difference between the actual and the notional fund value.
The compensation amount should be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr W hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Scottish Widows should provide details of the calculation to Mr W in a clear and simple 
format. 
Scottish Widows should also pay Mr W £200 for trouble and upset caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct 
Scottish Widows Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman