DRN-3539110
The complaint
Mr A complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has declined his travel insurance 
claim and that the policy was mis-sold to him at the renewal stage. 
What happened
Mr A had annual multi-trip travel insurance with IPA. The policy was underwritten by IPA and 
the cover was from 26 August 2020 and expired on 28 August 2021.
On 4 September 2020, Mr A went on his trip and he was due to return on 17 January 2021. 
While abroad, on 31 October 2020, Mr A was involved in a motor accident. He submitted a 
claim for the medical expenses hed incurred to IPA. 
IPA reviewed Mr As claim but declined it. It said Mr As trip was for longer than 31 days and 
the accident happened after the 31 days. He had therefore exceeded the maximum duration 
permitted on his travel policy and as such he had no cover. 
In regard to the policy being mis-sold, IPA said Mr A initially took the policy out online in 
August 2019 and all the information regarding the cover, including trip length would have 
been available for Mr A to see and the policy documentation was sent to him. On 7 August 
2020, Mr A had a telephone conversation with IPA about the upcoming renewal information 
hed received. Mr A said he would think about the policy and what he needed and would call 
back. Mr A didnt subsequently call IPA back and the policy automatically renewed on 
26 August 2020. IPA said there was no discussion about the trip length and, again, the 
policy documents were emailed to him. IPA said the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Unhappy with IPAs response, Mr A brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt think IPA had declined Mr As claim 
unfairly as the policy clearly explained there is no cover for trips over 31 days. Mr A travelled 
on 4 September 2020 and his accident happened on 31 October which is more than 31 days 
after the trip began. Also, she didnt think the policy was mis-sold at renewal stage as Mr A 
had been provided with all the policy documents. Hed shown hed received the renewal 
information when he called IPA and had the opportunity to review his needs. There was no 
evidence to suggest the 31-day trip limit was discussed. Our investigator didnt uphold this 
part of the complaint either. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The key issues I need to decide are whether:
IPA declined the claim fairly and reasonably: and
IPA mis-sold the policy at the 2020 renewal stage.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr As travel insurance policy as this 
forms the basis of Mr As contract with IPA.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provides a summary of the policy and 
confirms on page 2 says the following:
Are there any restrictions on cover?

! For annual multi trip policies, the maximum duration of any individual trip is 31 days, 
or 17 days, for a Winter Sports trip when the Winter Sports premium has been paid.
Page 3 of the policy booklet provides a summary of the cover which states:
Significant or unusual limitations or what is not covered

Under annual multi trip policies there is no cover for trips over 31 days.

Within the policy definitions, the 31-day trip limit is again confirmed:
Period of insurance (page 10)
- means if annual multi trip cover is selected: the period of 12 months for which we
have accepted the premium as stated in the schedule. During this period any trip
not exceeding 31 days is covered
Trip (page 11)
- If annual multi trip cover is selected any trip not exceeding 31 days is
coveredIf any trip exceeds 31 days there is absolutely no cover under this
policy for that trip (not even for the first 31 days of the trip), unless you have
contacted us and we have agreed in writing to provide cover.
Should the claim be declined?
Based on the above policy documents and the terms and conditions relating to the 31-day 
trip limit, I think IPA has made it clear that there is a trip limit of 31 days and cover would 
only be provided if the trip is for 31 days or less. 
Mr A went on his trip on 4 September 2020. His return flight was for 17 January 2021. The 
motor accident he unfortunately had was on 31 October 2020. With this in mind, as the 
accident happened more than 31 days since the trip started, there is no cover available on 
Mr As policy for the medical expenses he claimed for. As such, Im not persuaded that IPA 
declined the claim unfairly or unreasonably. Was the policy mis-sold at renewal?
Mr A took out the policy initially on 28 August 2019. He did this online and therefore the 
expectation on IPA would be that it provides clear information about the policy so that Mr A 
can decide whether the policy suits his needs. Mr A went ahead and purchased the policy 
and received all of the policy documents which included clear information that the trip limit 
was 31 days. Also included with the policy documents, was an explanation that offered a 
14-day cooling-off period to cancel the policy if it didnt meet the needs of the customer. 
The policy ran for the year and was due for renewal at the anniversary.
At renewal stage in August 2020, Mr A received notification that the policy was due for 
renewal. Mr A contacted IPA and spoke to an advisor 21 days before the policy was 
renewed. While he did speak about the policy, from the information available, theres no 
evidence to suggest he was unhappy with the 31-day trip limit. He said he would think about 
the policy, what he needed and would call back. I appreciate there is no recording of the 
telephone call he had with IPA, but we have notes from IPA that were made regarding the 
call. I understand it would have been better to have the actual call recording but as this isnt 
available, we have to go by the information that is available. Having considered this, theres 
no evidence to suggest Mr A called IPA back, and the policy was subsequently renewed 
automatically on 26 August 2020. Following this, Mr A was emailed all the policy documents 
to decide if it met his needs and had the opportunity to cancel the policy as there was a 14-
day cooling-off period. But I cant see that he did this. Based on the evidence available 
therefore, Im not persuaded IPA mis-sold Mr A the policy. 
Mr A says he didnt get the chance to review the policy documents IPA sent to him after the 
renewal as he got busy with his forthcoming trip and preparing for this due to all the Covid-
19 travel requirements. I appreciate this and understand this was a difficult time, but that 
doesnt mean that the policy was mis-sold by IPA and that it would now be responsible for 
what happened.ips
Conclusion
Overall, I appreciate that Mr A went through a difficult time with the motor accident, but 
taking everything into account, Im satisfied that IPA hasnt declined Mr As claim unfairly or 
unreasonably. And, Im also satisfied that IPA didnt mis-sell Mr A the travel insurance policy 
upon renewal in August 2020. It follows that I dont require IPA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Inter Partner 
Assistance SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman