DRN-3276567
The complaint
Mr J complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim under his 
travel insurance policy. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr J held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV.
Unfortunately, Mr Js trip abroad was disrupted by the circumstances surrounding the Covid-
19 pandemic and Mr J was unable to return to the UK on his original return flight. Instead,
Mr J remained abroad for a number of weeks after his original planned return date, until he
returned to the UK on a repatriation flight.
Mr J made a claim under his policy with URV for the cost of his repatriation flight but URV
said the circumstances of the claim werent covered under the terms and conditions of Mr Js
policy. Unhappy, Mr J complained to URV before bringing the matter to the attention of our
service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said he didnt think Mr Js policy
with URV covered the circumstances of his claim. Mr J didnt agree with our investigators
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr Js complaint earlier this month. In it, I said:
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say an insurer
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules
and guidance into account when making my decision about Mr Js complaint.
I understand Mr J found himself in an unexpected  and unprecedented - situation which 
was outside of his control. However, this doesnt automatically mean that his claim is 
covered under his insurance policy. Insurance policies dont cover every situation, and an 
insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to cover under a policy in return 
for the premium charged. Its not for me to tell an insurer what level of cover I think it should 
offer. Instead, I need to decide whether I think URV fairly assessed Mr Js claim under the 
terms and conditions of the policy he purchased.
URVs obligations to Mr J are set out in his policy documentation, which is the contract 
between URV and Mr J.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Js policy and I dont think theres any cover
under any section of the policy for the circumstances he found himself in. Mr J wasnt unable
to go on his trip, so theres no cover under Policy A Section 1. And, Mr J didnt cut short his
trip and come home early, so he has no cover under Policy B Section 1 either. Ive also
considered Policy B Section 12 which provides catastrophe cover, but this only pays a 
benefit to enable a policyholder to continue with their trip, which isnt what happened here.
Mr J didnt pay an extra premium to purchase Natural Catastrophe Extension Cover (Policy
B Section 24). This section of the policy may have covered the circumstances he 
subsequently found himself in but, as Mr J didnt buy this policy extension, I cant fairly ask
URV to consider his claim under this section of cover.
Mr J says he is claiming for a delayed flight, rather than a replacement flight. So, Ive
considered the section of his policy which relates to Missed Departure and Travel Delay
(Policy B Section 2). However, this section of the policy only provides cover for the delayed
departure of a flight if the policyholder is already at the airport, and the flight is delayed by
over 12 hours. Theres no suggestion thats what happened here.
Mr Js policy simply doesnt provide cover for any additional costs incurred by a policyholder
if a trip was extended beyond the original intended return date (other than in the event of
certain medical emergencies and in limited situations under the Missed Departure and
Travel Delay section of cover  none of which apply to Mr Js claim).
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J. I understand he may have had little alternative but to remain
abroad and await a repatriation flight. However, his claim isnt covered under the terms and
conditions of his policy with URV and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon
which I could fairly ask URV to accept his claim.
URV replied to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr J replied 
and said his flight was cancelled, not delayed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regardless of whether Mr Js original return flight to the UK was cancelled or delayed, his 
claim isnt covered under the policy he bought. There is no section of Mr Js policy which 
covers the additional cost of booking a new flight home at a later date because an inbound 
flight to the UK has been cancelled or delayed in these circumstances.
For these reasons, as well as for those set out in my provisional decision, I wont be directing 
URV to do anything further.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman