DRN-3068155
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with how Oodle Financial Services Limited dealt with his request for 
assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 24 September 2019, Mr F was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle. The agreement was for £18,995 over 60 months; with an initial 
payment of £516.96, 58 monthly repayments of £466.96, and a final payment of £516.96.
Mr F cancelled his direct debit on 8 April 2020 and, because of this, the payment due on 17 
April 2020 wasnt made. On 21 April 2020, Oodle called Mr F about the situation. Mr F 
explained that his income had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, so he was invoking 
a three-month payment holiday he said he was legally entitled to as per the government 
guidelines.
Oodle said they would put a one-month payment holiday in place, and they asked Mr F to 
complete an online form explaining how hed been affected by Covid-19, and to give some 
income and expenditure details. They said that, once hed done this, they could extend the 
payment holiday to three-months. Or offer Mr F any other assistance he may require. Mr F 
agreed to complete the form.
On 27 April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to financial 
businesses about how they should deal with requests like that from Mr F. 
Mr F didnt complete the online form, and the payment due on 17 May 2020 also wasnt paid. 
Because the online form hadnt been completed, and because the payment holiday hadnt 
been extended past the April payment, Oodle classed Mr Fs account as being in arrears. 
Oodle spoke to Mr F on 23 May 2020, and twice on 13 June 2020, about the missing online 
form. And they explained they could extend the payment holiday to three months, when Mr F 
completed the form. But Mr F refused to complete the form. He said it was ridiculous [and] a 
complete waste of time. And he said he hadnt been asked to do something similar by 
another financial businesses he had dealings with; so he thought that Oodle shouldnt be 
asking their customers to complete the form. 
Oodle explained to Mr F that, without a payment holiday in place, any missed payments 
would be classed as arrears, and could affect his credit report. They also explained that, 
once two payments were missed, the account would be transferred to a specialist debt 
collection agency. Mr F didnt agree with this, and he considered that mentioning arrears 
was adding pressure to people in an already difficult situation. He also considered that 
Oodle were acting illegally by recording missed payments on his credit file as the 
government guidance meant he was entitled to a three-month payment holiday.
Because Mr F didnt complete the online form, Oodle classed the missing payments as 
arrears, reporting this to the credit reference agencies. And, once two payments had been 
missed, they transferred Mr Fs account to the debt collection agency.
Mr F was unhappy that Oodle refuse to grant him a payment holiday, and that his account 
was transferred to a debt collection agency. So he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said it was up to Oodle to put processes in place for granting a payment 
holiday, so he didnt think theyd done anything wrong by asking Mr F to complete an online 
form. Even if other financial businesses didnt require Mr F to do something similar.
The investigator thought that Oodle had acted reasonably by explaining how any missed 
payments would be classed, if no payment arrangement was in place, and he didnt think 
telling Mr F this was threatening behaviour. He said that Mr F couldve completed the form to 
get the three-months payment holiday but, as he didnt do so, and because he didnt resume 
making payments after the one-month payment holiday granted in April 2020; then Oodle 
had acted reasonably by moving his account to a debt collection agency. So he didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said the online form was completed verbally with 
Oodle during the first call  they had all the information they needed but they rejected his 
request for a three-month payment holiday. Because Mr F didnt agree, this has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
Mr F has also asked that, when making my decision, I consider all of the facts and evidence, 
including all of the calls hes subsequently had with the debt collection agency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Before I address this matter, Mr F has said that its not possible for me to fairly decide on his 
complaint without first listening to all of the calls hes had with the debt collection agency. But 
his complaint relates to the actions of Oodle before they transferred his account to the debt 
collection agency. So I dont consider what the debt collection agency may or may not have 
said to be relevant  what is relevant is what Oodle actually did or didnt say or do when 
considering granting Mr F a three-month payment holiday.
Because of this, Im satisfied I have sufficient information to make my decision, and I dont 
need to listen to any of the calls between Mr F and the debt collection agency. But I have 
listened to the calls that took place between Mr F and Oodle.As stated above, the FCA issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 27 April 
2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. This 
guidance says a firm providing motor finance agreements should grant a payment deferral 
for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the 
customers interest to do so.  
Mr F believes there shouldnt be any form or filtering process when the govt made clear the 
right of payment holiday. But the FCA made it clear that a payment holiday could be refused 
if it was obviously not in the customers best interest to grant one. I wouldnt expect Oodle to 
assume things, or to guess what may or may not be best for an individual given their specific 
circumstances; so for Oodle to reasonably determine whether a payment holiday was 
obviously not in a customers interests they would need to ask relevant and pertinent 
questions. And Oodle chose to do this through an online form.
Ive seen the questions asked in the form and these relate to (a) information about the car 
being financed i.e. is it currently taxed an insured; (b) information about how the customers 
income and health have been impacted by Covid-19, and how long this is expected to last; 
(c) what type of support the customer wants from Oodle i.e. is this more than just a 
temporary payment holiday; and (d) some basic information about the customers current 
financial circumstances  an income and expenditure section, which would be needed to 
assess any additional support Oodle could give. I dont consider any of these questions to be 
excessive or irrelevant.
Mr F gave some information to Oodle during the call on 21 April 2020. But this wasnt all of 
the information they needed. And Oodle put a process in place that an online form needed to 
be completed. It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide what processes 
a financial business should have in place. This is a decision Oodle can make in line with the 
guidance issued by the FCA. So I dont think Oodle did anything wrong by asking Mr F to 
complete the online form, even if other financial businesses Mr F had dealings with didnt put 
a similar policy in place.
Oodle made it clear to Mr F why they needed the online form completed. And Mr F explained 
that, while he was able to complete the form, and didnt need any help or assistance to do 
so, he wasnt going to complete the form. Oodle also made it clear that, by not completing 
the form, they would class any missed payments as arrears. They also explained to Mr F 
what this would mean and at what point his account would be transferred to a debt collection 
agency. And Ive not seen anything to show me that Oodle didnt follow the processes theyd 
explained to Mr F.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Oodle acted reasonably in the circumstances, and I wont 
be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Oodle Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman