DRN-3878226
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim she made on a home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M insured her home with Covea. She made a claim for damage to a metal gate. After 
having the gate inspected, Covea declined cover for the claim. It said the damage claimed 
was caused by wear and tear, which was excluded from cover on the policy. 
Mrs M complained to Covea. She said the damage had been caused by a van. When Covea 
rejected her complaint, she referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt think Covea had 
acted fairly when it declined Mrs Ms claim, and asked that it reconsider the claim.
Mrs M agreed with this outcome, but Covea didnt. Mrs Ms complaint has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy contain an exclusion which says: Your policy will 
not provide cover or benefits under the following circumstances Loss or damage caused 
by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything which happens gradually.
As this is an exclusion, the onus is on Covea to show that it applies. Put simply, Covea 
needs to show the reason for the damage is, on balance, wear and tear.
In support of its opinion, Covea relies on a report prepared by its representative following a 
visit to Mrs Ms property. They concluded that warping and bending of the metal gate could 
be attributed to repeated use, corrosion and general wear and tear.
In support of her view, Mrs M has provided a report from a blacksmith which says that in 
their view the damage observed is consistent with having been caused by an impact.
Im not an expert in these matters and so need to consider which partys evidence Im more 
persuaded by. I think I should prefer the report from Mrs Ms blacksmith. I say this because 
the report details the damage to the right gate, and specifically compares it to the condition 
of the left gate. The damage noted to the right gate isnt present on the left gate. From what I 
have available to me, both gates were installed at the same time and have been subject to 
the same use and conditions so I think its reasonable to say that if the right gate is subject 
to such severe wear and tear as to cause the damage noted then there would be some signs 
of similar wear and tear on the left gate. I acknowledge there are signs of corrosion and wear 
to both gates. Some wear would be expected given the length of time the gates have been 
installed and their regular use and exposure to the elements. The warping and bending isnt 
present on the left gate, and the damage is much more severe to the right gate. That seems 
to suggest that additional forces have acted on the right gate, beyond the usual wear and 
tear. Im satisfied on balance that the damage to the right gate has been caused in another 
way, and I note the opinion of the blacksmith that its consistent with a vehicle impact.
In my opinion the main cause of the damage was more likely than not to have been an 
impact. Mrs M has said she believes a removal van which was at her neighbours house for 
a few days reversed into the gate. That would, I think, provide a rational explanation for the 
damage.
Its also been suggested that the dates given by Mrs M for when she noticed the damage 
havent been consistent. Im unclear where this comes from as from the notes and evidence 
available to me, Im satisfied that shes been consistent about how she thinks the damage 
occurred and when she believes this could have happened.
I conclude that Covea acted unreasonably when it declined the claim on the basis that the 
damage was caused by wear and tear. I dont think the evidence available to me means that 
was a fair conclusion.
Having concluded that Covea acted unfairly in declining cover for the claim, I now need to 
consider how it should resolve matters. Its not for me to order Covea to pay the claim, or 
how the claim should be settled. Im not a claim handler so cant say whether any other 
exclusions apply or what settlement the policy would cover. The complaint Ive considered is 
whether the decision to decline cover due to the wear and tear exclusion was reasonable.
Covea needs to reconsider the claim, in light of the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. My decision doesnt place any obligation on Covea to cover the claim, or make a 
particular settlement.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Covea Insurance 
plc must reconsider the claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman