DRN-3128917
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited, trading as Neo, approved her for a credit 
account which she feels was unaffordable for her at that time. Miss B is also unhappy with 
the service that shes received from Vanquis since opening the account, including that 
Vanquis didnt recognise from how she managed the account that she was in financial 
difficulty and didnt offer her reasonable assistance as a result.
What happened
Miss B applied for a Vanquis credit account in 2017. Her application was approved, and 
Vanquis issued Miss B with a credit card with a credit limit of £150.
Miss B struggled to maintain the balance of the credit account within the credit limit and 
incurred several account charges as a result. Miss B wasnt happy about this, and she also 
felt that Vanquis were deliberately processing payments that she made to the account later 
than they should have done so that fees became due. Miss B was also unhappy about other 
aspects of the service that she received from Vanquis, including confusing and contradictory 
communications she received from Vanquis about minimum payment amounts required on 
her account. So, Miss B raised a complaint.
Vanquis looked at Miss Bs complaint. They felt that there had been nothing in the checks 
into Miss Bs financial position that theyd undertaken at the time of the account application 
that should have given them any cause to consider that the credit account that Miss B had 
applied for wouldnt be affordable for her at that time. 
Vanquis also felt that the charges that Miss B had incurred on the account had been applied 
correctly and inline with the account terms and conditions, and they also felt that they had 
offered fair and reasonable support to Miss B when shed made them aware that she was in 
financial difficulty. Vanquis also didnt agree that theyd withheld posting any payments to 
Miss Bs account.
However, Vanquis did acknowledge that some of the communication that theyd sent to  
Miss B hadnt been to the standard that they would have liked. Vanquis apologised to Miss B 
for this, and reimbursed fees to Miss Bs account for which they felt Miss B had incurred as a 
result of the confusing communication. Vanquis also credited Miss Bs account with £25 by 
way of compensation for the inconvenience shed incurred.
Miss B wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that Vanquis 
had already issued to Miss Bs complaint represented a fair and reasonable resolution to 
what had happened, so they didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint or ask Vanquis to take any 
further action.
Miss B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must note that this service can only investigate complaints that have previously been raised 
by the complainant with the respondent business and which that business has had an 
opportunity to respond to with the complainant. This means that if Miss B is dissatisfied with 
any actions of Vanquis that occurred after Miss B initially brought her complaint to Vanquis, 
and which as such werent responded to by Vanquis in the response that they issued to Miss 
Bs complaint, these actions would fall outside the remit of what this service can consider in 
this instance. 
Miss B has stated that she feels that Vanquis shouldnt have approved her initial application 
for credit and that it should have been evident from her financial position at the time of the 
application that the credit wouldnt be affordable for her.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
I think that Vanquis did that here. At the time of the application they took details from Miss B 
of her income, which Miss B confirmed as being approximately £14,000 per annum. Vanquis 
also obtained information from a credit reference agency as to Miss Bs wider financial 
position, and this confirmed that while Miss B did have other existing credit at that time, the 
total amount of other existing credit wasnt particularly high, at £600. As such, given that the 
credit limit of £150 on this Vanquis account was relatively low, I dont feel that it was 
unreasonable for Vanquis to have concluded that Miss B would most likely be able to afford 
any monthly repayments that might become due on the account, given the information that 
they had available to them.
It's notable that Miss Bs credit file at the point of application also showed a default and a 
County Court Judgement, but these events, while significant, had all occurred more than two 
years before Miss B had made the application to Vanquis. As such, I dont feel that Vanquis 
should have necessarily rejected Miss Bs application because of these factors and Im 
satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for Vanquis to have given more weight to how Miss B had 
managed her financial affairs in the time immediately prior to the application and to have 
approved her application with the caveat of a relatively low credit limit  which was what 
Vanquis did here.
Miss B is also unhappy at the fees and charges that have been applied to the account by 
Vanquis and feels that Vanquis may not have calculated the interest that has been applied to 
the account correctly. However, having reviewed the account statements I cant see anything 
to suggest that the interest thats been applied to the account hasnt been calculated 
correctly, and I also havent seen any instances of fees or charges being applied to the 
account that werent inline with the terms and conditions of the account.
Miss B has also expressed her dissatisfaction at what she feels was Vanquis deliberately 
posting payments that she made towards the account later than they should have been 
posted following her making the payments, and for which Miss B incurred late payment 
charges on the account as a result.
I must note that it would be very difficult for this service to corroborate this aspect of Miss Bs 
complaint, as would be required for me to consider upholding it. However, its not unusual for the processing of payments by a business to take some time, and Vanquis have confirmed 
that payments can take up to two working days to be processed and recorded on the 
account, although it can be the case that some payments are processed faster. 
As such, while I can appreciate that Miss B might be frustrated at what she feels are 
inconsistencies in the times that payment processing was completed by Vanquis, I dont feel 
that I can fairly or reasonably say that these inconsistencies took place as a result of any 
deliberate act by Vanquis, or that they were unreasonable or out of line with how business 
payment processing usually works. 
Miss B also feels that Vanquis should have recognised from how she was managing the 
account that she was in financial difficulty and that they should have offered her assistance 
as a result.
I can appreciate Miss Bs position here, but this service generally wouldnt expect a credit 
provider to monitor the way in which a customer uses their account in the way that Miss B 
suggests should have been the case here, and this service would generally only expect a 
business to react to being proactively told by a customer that they are experiencing financial 
difficulty.
And, in this instance, when Miss B did tell Vanquis that she was experiencing financial 
difficulty, it appears that Vanquis did react positively to Miss B providing that information and 
did offer forms of assistance to Miss B. This included Vanquis offering structured repayment 
plans to help Miss B recover her financial position, and also freezing collections activities for 
a period when Miss B explained that her financial circumstances had deteriorated as a result 
of her losing her job.
Vanquis actions in response to Miss B informing and updating them as to the state of her 
financial position are inline with what this service would expect in such circumstances, and 
so I dont feel that I can reasonably say Vanquis ought to have done more or that any unfair 
outcome has arisen as a result.
Finally, Miss B is unhappy that some of the communications she received from Vanquis 
were confusing in respect of the amount of payment that was due on the account. Vanquis 
upheld this aspect of Miss Bs complaint and they reimbursed some fees to Miss Bs account 
as a result and credited Miss Bs account with £25 by way of compensation. 
This seems reasonable to me, and while I appreciate that Miss B might feel that a higher 
amount of compensation is warranted, the £25 that Vanquis have already paid to Miss B 
feels fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this service would 
expect, given the circumstances. It also should be noted that Miss B had alternative means 
of checking the status of her account and the amount of payment that was due on it, and 
also that Vanquis had asked Miss B, in response to an earlier complaint that Miss B raised 
about this same issue, to contact them if she was uncertain how much monthly payment 
needed to be made.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Vanquis have already issued to 
Miss B regarding this complaint does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to what has 
taken place. As such, I find it difficult to conclude that Vanquis have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here and it follows from this that my final decision will be that I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss B was wanting here, but I hope that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman