DRN-3421263
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim she made on her former employers group 
income protection scheme. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs C became absent from work. In July 2020 she made a claim on her 
employers group income protection scheme. She said she was unable to work due to 
anxiety and work-related stress. And she mentioned that she was experiencing hip and knee 
pain. 
Unum didnt accept the claim as they said the medical evidence didnt show Mrs C had 
experienced symptoms of a medical condition which would have caused prolonged absence 
or prevented her from carrying out her insured occupation. Mrs C appealed the decision, but 
Unum maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mrs C complained to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
Unum had fairly declined the claim based on the medical evidence and the policy terms. 
Mrs C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. She explained her 
mental health issues were brought about by several factors and that, due to the pandemic, it 
was difficult to express her feelings to her GP as she had remote consultations. She says 
that she wasnt able to work to the required standard. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Its for Mrs C to 
show that she has a valid claim, not for Unum to show that she doesnt.
In order to successfully claim on the policy Mrs C must show that she met the policy 
definition of incapacity which says a member is incapacitated if: 
Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation
Material and substantial duties means: 
The duties that are normally required for the performance of the members insured 
occupation, and which cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by the member or 
the employer. A direct journey to/from the members normal place of business is not 
regarded as part of their insured occupation. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The medical evidence consistently refers to Mrs C experiencing work related stress 
and issues at work. This related to a number of factors including being initially 
required to come into the office during the pandemic, issues with the technology 
required for working at home and possible changes to the location of her work. 
Based on the GP notes, occupational health reports and the information Mrs C 
submitted in support of her claim I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that 
Mrs C couldnt work due to workplace stressors, rather than a mental health condition 
that prevented her from carrying out the material and substantial duties of her role.
Mrs C did experience some mobility issues following a fall, but she was discharged in 
October 2020, which was before the end of the deferred period. Ive also taken into 
account that Mrs C had surgery in April 2021 which would have also impacted on her 
mobility. I think Unum reasonably concluded the medical evidence doesnt suggest 
that this would have prevented her from carrying out the material and substantial 
duties of her role. Mrs C had a sedentary, computer-based role and could work from 
home. Unfortunately, this was one of the workplace issues which caused her to feel 
stressed and upset due to the reasons Ive outlined above.
In any event, the terms say that the journey to and from the members normal place 
of business is not regarded as part of their insured occupation. In her claim form Mrs 
C said shed be unable to relocate to the new work premises because of her mobility, 
which is why she was anxious and stressed. So, this further persuades me that it isnt 
fair to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman