DRN-3115211
The complaint
Miss L complains how Ageas Insurance Limited has handled her claim for subsidence on her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
Miss L made a claim for subsidence in August 2020.
Ageas accepted the claim. It found the damage was being caused by vegetation 
belonging to the local authority and recommended it was removed.
The local authority removed the vegetation in December 2020. 
After a period of monitoring the property was confirmed to be stable and repairs 
commenced. 
Miss L is unhappy with the scope of works. She feels Ageas has ignored damage to 
the property.
Ageas disagree and say the damage isnt subsidence related.
Miss L is also unhappy that she has been asked to pay the £1,000 policy excess as 
Ageas agreed with the local authority it wouldnt attempt to recover claim costs in 
return for prompt removal of the vegetation causing the damage. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt Ageas had acted within the 
policy terms and some of the damage wasnt subsidence related. Miss L disagrees 
and has asked for the complaint to be looked at again.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Waiving recovery rights and policy excess
Miss L is unhappy that she has had to pay the £1,000 excess and feels this is unfair when 
Ageas has chosen not to pursue the local authority for its costs. 
The excess, this is the first part of any claim, it is referred to as uninsured loss. The policy 
says a £1,000 excess is payable in the event of any valid subsidence claim. By taking out 
the policy Miss L has entered into this contract with Ageas.
Ive looked at the terms of the policy. It says:
If you make a claim or possible claim under this policy, your insurer will at their option []
Exercise sole control at your insurers cost over dealing with any third party claim and its
associated legal proceedings relevant to it. Your insurer will keep you informed of all
developments [] Pursue in your name, but for your insurers benefit and at your insurers 
cost, any claims for damages or other costs.
Ageas therefore has the right under the terms and conditions of the policy to choose how 
and if it recovers any costs from a third party. This isnt an uncommon term in an insurance 
policy and Miss L has agreed to these terms when she took the policy out with Ageas 
therefore it doesnt need to seek permission from Miss L to apply the terms. 
However, for completeness Ive looked at the reasons Ageas chose to not pursue the local 
authority. It considered the local authority would likely be able to demonstrate regular 
maintenance and pruning of the vegetation. In light of this it didnt feel it would have a 
chance of success in recovering the costs, based on established case law (Berent versus 
Family Mosaic Housing and London Borough of Islington (2012)) if it went to court, as it 
would have difficulty in proving the local authority had acted in a negligent manner.  
Ageas therefore felt a more progressive approach would be to agree to not pursue for costs 
in return for speedy removal of the vegetation causing the damage to Miss Ls property. Im 
persuaded that this is reasonable in the circumstances, and its likely that this has prevented 
what couldve been a long drawn out process which wouldve likely caused more damage to 
Miss Ls property and possible further costs to the insurer. Im therefore satisfied that Ageas 
has acted within the terms and conditions of the policy.
So regardless of the choice Ageas made to pursue or not to pursue the third party for costs, 
an uninsured loss isnt a cost that can be recovered regardless if the local authority was 
negligent or not. So even if Ageas had tried to recover the claim costs, it wouldnt have 
recovered the excess.  I am therefore satisfied that there was a valid subsidence claim and 
the excess was due and payable by Miss L, so I wont be asking Ageas to do anything 
different. However, this doesnt prevent Miss L from seeking legal advice or approaching the 
local authority herself to try and recover the cost if she wishes to do so.
Damage to the property
There isnt any dispute that there has been subsidence at Miss Ls property. But what I must 
consider is whether Ageas has fairly declined the disputed damage to Miss Ls property, 
which she says is subsidence related  taking into account the evidence provided by all 
parties. To help me understand whats happened Ive considered the photographs, expert 
reports and opinions presented very carefully.
The disputed damage includes the fascias and soffits, the rendering along the bay window, 
paving around the bay window, warping of the wooden floor in the hall, damage to the front 
door and frame, misting of  the uPVC windows, cracks in the ceiling in the front right 
bedroom and rear left bedroom, and cracking in the wall of the rear left bedroom.
The experts advise that the subsidence is at the front of the property and the external 
damage is due to wear and tear and general deterioration over time, it explains the crack 
patterns are not characteristic of subsidence. Having looked at the photographs I agree that 
the damage does appear to be consistent with wear and tear and isnt the type of damage Id 
expect to see from a claim of this type. 
It also advises the internal cracking in the bedroom ceilings appears to be long-standing, and 
due to some thermal movement. There was also evidence of the crack in the wall in the back 
bedroom being previously filled and the cracks were not showing on both sides of the internal walls. The warping of the hall floor looks to be related to a previous radiator leak 
albeit I understand Miss L thinks this has got worse due to the subsidence, but I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that this is the case. 
The uPVC windows also appear to be age related as the units are over 20 years old and it 
isnt uncommon for the seals to deteriorate over time causing the windows to mist.  
Although I appreciate Miss L strongly disagrees, Ive found the reports and testimony from 
two chartered engineers more persuasive and I am therefore satisfied the disputed damage 
is due to wear and tear and general deterioration and it doesnt appear to be linked or 
consistent with damage caused by subsidence.
Ive looked at the policy document and it specifically says that it will only cover damage that 
has resulted from an insured event and it excludes loss, damage or liability arising
from wear and tear or damage that happens gradually over time.  I am therefore unable to 
say Ageas has acted unfairly in declining the disputed areas of damage and I wont be 
instructing it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman