DRN-2332596
The complaint
Mr N complains about getting poor service from Southern Rock Insurance Company and 
says it settled a claim against his motor insurance policy unfairly. 
 
What happened
On 2 June 2019 Ms A, a resident of a road where Mr N was working on a house, said hed 
damaged the rear drivers-side corner of her car when he moved out of the space hed 
parked in directly behind it. Mr N said that wasnt true. 
Southern Rock appointed an independent engineer, who said there was damage to the front 
passenger-side corner of  Mr Ns car. As he couldnt relate it to the incident. He strongly 
advised Southern Rock to have Ms As car checked for damage consistency. Meanwhile, her 
insurer provided a statement from a Mr B, who said hed seen the incident. Mr N said he 
knew Mr B, who was biased. Southern Rocks engineer then carried out a desktop 
assessment of both cars. He said the damage to them was consistent and in line with the 
incident Ms A reported.  
Mr N didnt know Ms As claim had been paid until he called to renew his policy and found 
the premium had gone up. He said the 2019 incident  and a non-fault incident hed reported 
in 2018  shouldnt be on his record. He complained about that and about the attitude of 
Southern Rocks advisors. As it didnt uphold his complaint, he brought it to this service.
One of our investigators said it was reasonable for Southern Rock to record the 2018 claim - 
and he didnt think Mr N had been given poor service. But he thought Southern Rock should 
have done more when its in-house engineer disagreed with the independent engineer. 
Southern Rock then got a report from a specialist collision investigator. He said he couldnt 
discount contact between the two cars, in a glancing impact. As our investigator still thought 
the complaint should be upheld, Southern Rock asked for an ombudsman to review it. 
I issued a provisional decision, not upholding the complaint, along the following lines:
I thought Southern Rock had the right to record the 2018 incident Mr N had reported 
to it, even though it was non-fault, in line with standard industry practice
I didnt think the call recordings showed that Southern Rocks advisors had provided 
poor service to Mr N. I thought he pushed hard for the lowest possible premium. He 
wanted them to say that the 2018 claim shouldnt be recorded and that the 2019 
claim was false. I thought he was frustrated that they couldnt comply with his wishes. 
In my opinion, the calls showed the advisors to be polite and helpful, whereas I 
thought Mr N was aggressive at times towards them 
I didnt think the fact that managers werent always free to take Mr Ns calls 
amounted to poor service. And I thought the fact that a manager left a message for 
him, then left the office before he could return the call, was just poor timing
I noted that Mr N didnt deny being parked behind Ms As car at the time of the 
incident or manoeuvring past it. I didnt think hed shown that Mr B was biased 
against him - or that Southern Rock could safely assume Mr Bs evidence was false. I 
said that would be for a judge to decide. I said it had to consider the views of the 
engineers and the collision investigator as well. I didnt agree with Mr N that a 
desktop assessment of the damage wasnt valid. I thought the collision investigators 
report was thorough and supported the view of the in-house engineer. So in my view 
it was reasonable for Southern Rock to rely on it, alongside the other evidence  
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Southern Rock didnt comment. 
Mr N said he wasnt involved in the 2019 incident, but as his car was very old, there were 
scratches all over it. He said the independent engineer found no accident-related damage to 
the car and the findings of Southern Rocks in-house engineer werent fair. He said it didnt 
get a forensic report, although the independent engineer had suggested it. Mr N said he and 
his lawyer thought he had a strong case. He pointed out that our investigator had upheld his 
complaint and he thought I should do the same. Mr N also said he was in severe financial 
difficulties as a result of Southern Rocks decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable for Southern Rock to conclude that it wouldnt be able to defend 
Ms As claim successfully. The witness evidence may have assisted her, and it also had to 
consider the weight of the evidence about the damage. The independent engineer wanted 
an examination of both cars to be done, to check for damage that showed it was likely theyd 
come into contact. I think that evidence was provided by the collision expert and by Southern 
Rocks in-house engineer, who thought the damage was consistent with the reported 
incident. In these circumstances, I think it was fair to settle the claim. 
I appreciate that Mr N still thinks his complaint should be upheld, but I dont agree. Im very 
sorry to hear of his financial problems. But as I dont think Southern Rock acted 
unreasonably in settling the claim, or that it provided poor service to Mr N, I cant uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 
8 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman