DRN-2324780
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited delayed placing his 
order to sell shares.
What happened
Mr M placed a stop loss order before the markets opened on 17 March 2020 to sell his 
holding of ASOS shares. The stop loss was set at 1500p. He says the price was triggered at 
8.28am, but the order didnt take place until after 8.39am, by which time the price had fallen 
and he only received 1467p. He wants Hargreaves Lansdown to pay him £12,000 for the 
loss he says hes made because the shares werent sold when the price was triggered.
Hargreaves Lansdown said the order was processed correctly and that a stop loss order 
doesnt guarantee that the shares will be sold at the set price, especially if markets are 
impacted by trading volumes and market movements as they were around this time.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Hargreaves Lansdown had made a mistake and that the order couldnt have been placed 
any earlier because of high demand and because of the number of shares Mr M wanted to 
sell.
Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The price was set and Hargreaves Lansdown failed to act.
When he complained he was told the order was only triggered at 1467p; it should have 
been triggered at 1500p.
There was no sudden market drop, as evidenced by the graphs hes provided. How do 
we know Hargreaves Lansdown have provided us with accurate information?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint for the following reasons:
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules set out how businesses must execute orders 
for their clients. Amongst other things, the rules say, (at COBS 11.3.1) that businesses must:
1. implement procedures and arrangements which provide for the prompt, fair and 
expeditious execution of client orders, relative to other orders or the trading interests of the 
firm.
2. These procedures or arrangements must allow for the execution of otherwise comparable 
orders in accordance with the time of their reception by the firm.
The rules go on to say that comparable orders should be dealt sequentially and promptly.
Hargreaves Lansdown told us there was a high demand on its systems that morning. This 
would have meant there were a number of orders that had been received ahead of Mr Ms 
and which had to be dealt with sequentially. This meant that, whilst the bid price of 1500p 
was reached at 8.29am, Hargreaves Lansdown wasnt in a position to attempt Mr Ms order 
until 8.35am. It then wasnt possible to trade electronically because of the number of shares 
Mr M wanted to sell and the order had to be placed manually. The sale took place at 
8.44am. Taking into account the market conditions, the demand on Hargreaves Lansdowns 
systems, and the fact that the sale had to be done manually, I am satisfied that the order 
was placed promptly and that Mr M wasnt treated unfairly.
Hargreaves Lansdown has provided a copy of the wording Mr M would have seen online 
when he placed his stop loss order. This sets out that there are a number of reasons why a 
stop loss order might not be executed when the stop price is reached, including market 
conditions, other clients orders, and the size of the order. And it is clear that if the bid price 
is lower than your stop loss price when we attempt to place your deal, we will continue to 
place your deal at the lower price.
So I think it was made reasonably clear that the placing of a stop loss order does not 
guarantee a sale at the specified price and that there may be reasons why an order cant be 
executed even if the specified price is reached.
Finally, Im satisfied that Hargreaves Lansdown has provided Mr M and this service with 
accurate information.
Overall, I find that Hargreaves Lansdown handled Mr Ms order in line with its agreed terms 
and conditions, including its order handling policy, and in line with its regulatory obligations.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman