DRN-2864825
The complaint
Mr O complains about the valuation Aviva Insurance Limited placed on his car when he 
made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants this increased.
What happened
Mr Os car was stolen, and he made a claim. Aviva initially offered him £18,000, minus the 
policy excess, as the cars pre-loss market value. But Mr O explained that the car was rare 
as it had been fitted with significant optional extras. So Aviva increased its offer, also taking 
into account that the car had been a previous category N loss, and offered Mr O £26,000, 
less the excess. But Mr O thought his car was worth about £31,000. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He obtained 
valuations from the motor trade guides we use and found that Avivas final offer was higher 
than their average. He thought Aviva had reasonably added to its valuation 40% of the cost 
of optional extras. And he thought it had reasonably reduced the cars value by 20% to take 
into account the category N marker. So he thought its final offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr O replied that he wanted an ombudsmans review. So his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr O wants a fair offer for the loss of his car. I can see that his policy 
provides for the cars market value in the case of its loss. The investigator has explained this 
services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to 
whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr O thought his car was rare and adverts should be considered to reach a valuation. But 
we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices 
and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail selling prices. In any case, I can see that the motor trade guides do 
provide valuations for cars similar to Mr Os. So I can see no reason not to rely on them. 
Our investigator thought that Avivas final offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive reviewed 
how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he obtained valuations from three of the trade 
guides we use for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and optional 
extras as Mr Os car. The average was less than Avivas final offer, but close enough for 
there not to be a significant difference.
Aviva had relied on an engineers assessment of the value of Mr Os car. His initial valuation 
from the motor trade guides we use was £22,400. Aviva had valued the optional extras it 
thought would increase its value and these totalled £22,660. And it added 40% of this 
amount to the valuation. I think thats a fair and reasonable approach as it allows for 
depreciation. 
Mr O thought the optional extras were worth more. But I agree with our investigator that this 
isnt always the case and not all extras would add value. And I think Aviva fairly considered 
the extras and increased the valuation accordingly.
The car had been a previous category N total loss. Our approach is that a deduction for this 
is reasonable as it is likely to reduce the market value. And I think Avivas deduction of 20% 
for this was fair and reasonable. 
Avivas final offer was £26,000, less the excess. I can see that Mr O thinks that the value of 
the optional extras should increase this to £27,432. But I think Aviva has fairly relied on the 
motor trade guides and an engineers assessment to reach its valuation. I think this was in 
keeping with our approach. And so I cant say this is unfair or unreasonable. And I dont 
require it to increase its offer. 
Mr O also raised a concern about the renewal of his policy. But I cant consider that here as 
Aviva hasnt had a chance to respond to it. I can see that Mr O has raised this concern with 
Aviva. If he then complains and is unhappy with its response he can bring this to us.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman