DRN-3700125
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F complains about how Society of Lloyds (SoL) dealt with a 
claim on its commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Mr C, a director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
to F throughout.
Reference to SoL also includes the actions and comments of the underwriting syndicate.
What happened
Fs van broke down while being used and was recovered to a garage, which Ill refer to as 
garage A. Garage A identified that there were missing teeth on the timing belt and so 
thought there had been a timing issue with the van. Because of this garage A checked the 
rockers in the engine and noticed that these needed replacing too, as some were broken. In 
the process of doing this work they also noticed that the air filter was wet, so they replaced 
this as well.
Once garage A had carried out these repairs, they tried to start the van. They said it started 
and ran for about 45 seconds and then cut out again. They checked the intercooler hose and 
said about 300-400ml of dirty water came out. Because of this, garage A suspected the van 
had ingested water, as it had been driven in bad weather with lots of standing water. F 
claimed on its comprehensive commercial vehicle insurance policy for the damage.
SoL reviewed the claim and sent an engineer to inspect Fs van. By the time the van was 
inspected it had been moved to another garage, which Ill refer to as garage B. When SoLs 
engineer inspected the van, F said they arrived without any tools and had to borrow them 
from garage B. Having inspected the van the engineer said that he didnt think there was 
evidence to show the van had been damaged by ingesting water. Because of this SoL 
requested further information from F to assist in investigating the claim.
There was some discussion between F and SoL and Fs van was sent to a manufacturing 
dealer to investigate the cause of failure. They discovered that there was damage consistent 
with a timing belt failure, in particular damage to the cam shaft. The manufacturing garage 
also found clear water in all four pistons and the inlet manifold. Because of this SoL sent 
another engineer to inspect the van.
Having inspected the van, the engineer agreed there was water in the engine, but couldnt 
explain the reason it was there, as the damage to the engine didnt support damage caused 
by ingesting water. He said, in particular, the con rods werent damaged and the damaged 
cam shaft lobes were consistent with timing issues. Because of this SoL declined Fs claim 
on this basis the van hadnt been damaged accidentally and the problem with it was 
mechanical failure. 
F didnt think this was fair and complained to SoL. SoL reviewed the complaint and didnt 
uphold it. They said the damage to Fs van wasnt consistent with engine failure due to 
ingesting water but did agree the claim could have been handled better and offered £250 in 
compensation.
F didnt think this was fair and referred the complaint here. It said the water ingress into the 
engine had caused the damage to the timing belt and because garage A had repaired that 
part it thought SoL hadnt fairly assessed the claim. F also said if it had been able to provide 
the original air filter it would have shown the van ingested water. So F asked us to consider 
its complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 October 2022 where I said:
F has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service set up 
as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider 
to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to F. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit 
and my role in it.
F has a comprehensive insurance policy with SoL which covers his van for accidental 
damage, fire and theft. SoL have said they dont think an insured event occurred and so the 
damage isnt covered under the policy. They have also relied on an exclusion in section 2 
(Loss of or damage to your vehicle) of the policy which says:
This section of your insurance does not cover the following:

4. Failures, breakdowns or breakages of mechanical, electrical, 
electronic or computer equipment
Ive therefore looked at whether SoL have acted fairly and reasonably when declining Fs 
claim and Im satisfied they have. I say this because while there were failings in the claim 
handling, Im satisfied SoL have reached their decision in a fair and reasonable way. This is 
because that decision was based on an engineers opinion who was aware of all the facts, 
including the repairs done by garage A.
The most recent engineers report carried out in April 2021 says:
4) Having paid close attention the air filter housing and intake pipe, I
could not find any evidence of water trace such as trail marks through
the dust and would question if any water ingress has taken place. We
observe the intake level to be high on this vehicle so would strongly
suggest if the driver drove through water, it would be so significant it
would have been an obvious event.
From inspecting the air intake and looking at the dust marks the engineer was unable to
see traces of water being ingested into the engine. So, while I dont dispute that the air filter
was wet and needed replacing, Im not persuaded water entered the engine this way.
The engineers report goes onto say:
6) Had water ingress taken place through the air induction I would
expect the engine would have suffered from hydraulic lock and would
not have likely turned over at all and it is our opinion historically the
distortion of the connecting rods will have occurred being caused by the
introduction of a foreign fluid into the induction system which has then
been sucked into the cylinder bore. The pistons would try to compress
the liquid during the compression stroke and this would damage the
connecting rods, no such damage can be observed at this time.7) The only way the camshaft lobes can turn out of position on the
camshaft is if the engine has suffered catastrophic timing issues. The
damage detailed is not consistent with ingress of water.
From reading this Im satisfied that the damage to the engine did not happen through the
engine ingesting water while the van was being driven, causing what is known as
hydrolock. I understand that F has said that its possible for an engine which ingests water
to damage a timing belt, and while I dont dispute that, I havent seen anything to show that
there is the other damage usually associated with an engine which has ingested water.
Therefore, Im satisfied that SoLs decision to decline Fs claim due to F not having
demonstrated that the van has suffered damage as a result of an insured event is fair and
reasonable. And, I think the damage is most likely to have been caused by a failure,
breakdown or breakage of mechanical equipment, i.e. the timing belt, which is specifically
excluded under Fs policy.
F has also provided recordings of conversations Mr C had about the damage to the van. In
the recordings they do agree there was water in the engine and its possible to damage the
timing belt through ingesting water. While the recordings may support Fs claim, they dont
change the fact that the damage to the engine isnt consistent with the damage normally
caused by an engine ingesting water. Im therefore not persuaded the calls show this is what
happened.
Ive also considered the delays in the claim and the poor claim handling F experienced. I can
see there were multiple communications between F and SoL and there were delays in SoLs
progression of the claim. Its disappointing to see these happened and that SoL took longer
than they should have done to decline the claim. But, Im satisfied that SoLs offer of £250 is
fair and reasonable compensation for these issues. I say this because while there have been
some delays and the claim took a few months overall. Im also aware that there were
different reports completed on Fs van and that these were carried out as F wasnt satisfied
with the outcome of the initial engineer, as they didnt find damage consistent with what F
has said had happened, so SoL needed to complete further investigation. I therefore, dont
intend to require SoL to pay more compensation than they already have.
In summary, I agree there has been failings by SoL in how the claim was handled and the
communication. But, Im satisfied SoL were entitled to turn down Fs claim and theyve paid
sufficient compensation for the poor service theyve provided at times. I therefore dont
intend to uphold Fs complaint.
F responded and didnt accept my decision. It said Id been selective on which evidence Id 
used and didnt agree Id addressed all of its complaint. In particular, F referred to the time it 
took to assess the claim as F didnt have its van and therefore was unable to work during 
that time. F also provided numerous documents, audio recordings and videos to support its 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure F that I have listened to, watched and read all of the information 
provided but my decision on this complaint hasnt changed. I say this because, while I agree 
there was water in the engine in areas it shouldnt be, the damage to Fs engine isnt 
consistent with the damage normally associated with an engine ingesting water. For me to be satisfied SoL have acted unfairly, I would need to see there has been an 
insured event. In this case that would be accidental damage to Fs van by it ingesting water. 
However, the damage to Fs van isnt consistent with the damage normally associated with 
an engine ingesting water. In my view, this is also supported by one of the recordings F 
provided of a conversation with the manufacturing garage who found water in the engine. 
The garage said in the recording that they also didnt find the damage they would expect to 
see when an engine ingests water. In particular the con rods werent damaged. Im therefore 
not persuaded SoL have acted unfairly by turning down this claim as Im not persuaded F 
has shown its most likely that an insured event occurred.
Ive also considered the length of time the claim took, and that F was without the van for a 
few months. While I agree this time frame isnt acceptable in this case, Im not going to tell 
SoL to pay any more than they have for the reasons explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman