DRN-3121529
The complaint
Mr G complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA has refused to refund a purchase he 
made for an item he didnt receive.
What happened
Mr G says he bought an item for about £24 via PayPal in October 2020 but the item wasnt 
received by him. He says he was given information by the company, I will call R, that was 
meant to deliver the item, that the delivery details didnt match his address. Mr G says 
PayPal has refused to refund the money. He would like PayPal to refund the payment and 
pay compensation for the inconvenience he was caused. He also says he was given two 
delivery reference numbers and R confirmed neither was for his address.
PayPal says the seller provided evidence the item was delivered including a tracking number 
and details of Mr Gs address. It says it acted in line with its user agreement by rejecting Mr 
Gs claim.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought R had confirmed the delivery address didnt match Mr Gs address and thought it 
significant that Mr Gs postcode was missing from the delivery address supplied by the 
seller. The investigator thought PayPal ought to have carried out a further investigation when 
presented with the evidence and so should pay compensation of £50 and refund the item 
cost.
PayPal doesnt accept that view and says evidence had been provided of delivery and that R 
had delivered the item.
Mr G questions why two delivery numbers were provided and maintains the item must have 
been delivered to the wrong address.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that that I dont uphold this 
complaint. I appreciated Mr G would be disappointed by my provisional decision.
I had no doubt Mr G bought the item in good faith and that it wasnt delivered to him. I said I 
cant be sure what took place, but I had to look at the actions of PayPal and decide if it made 
a mistake or acted unfairly.
The key document in this complaint is PayPals user agreement which deals with this sort of 
dispute. I was satisfied that Mr G would have agreed to the user agreement terms and 
conditions when he opened his account. The agreement says in summary that a buyer may 
be entitled to a refund at PayPals sole discretion if an item is not received. But a buyer will 
not qualify for a refund if the seller provides proof of delivery, even if the buyer doesnt 
receive the item.
I looked carefully at PayPals records and was satisfied it raised a dispute on Mr Gs behalf 
but that the seller provided evidence that it had sent the item to Mr G. And that additionally R 
had provided evidence it had delivered the item. I looked at the address provided by the 
seller and although it didnt contain a postcode, it was accurate. So, in those circumstances I 
was satisfied that PayPal was entitled to reasonably conclude that the seller had provided 
evidence of delivery and on the face of it to the correct address. It follows that I didnt think 
that PayPal made a mistake or acted unfairly by rejecting Mr Gs claim and I didnt think it 
matters under the user agreement that Mr G didnt receive the item.
I appreciated there will be unanswered questions here, but I thought Mr G would need to 
raise them with R as it was responsible for the delivery of the item. And no doubt it can 
explain why Mr G didnt receive it when it was correctly addressed to him.
Overall my provisional view was that PayPal was entitled to act in line with its user 
agreement and reject Mr Gs claim when it received the information from the seller. I didnt 
think PayPal has any control over R or would be entitled to any further information from it 
about what took place and the address the item was actually delivered to.
PayPal doesnt wish to add anything to my provisional decision, but Mr G doesnt agree with 
it. He says both tracking references are for different addresses in the area and the seller 
didnt provide the postcode. He says the seller has failed to provide delivery information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. I appreciate Mr G says the seller has failed to provide 
delivery information, but I have made clear it is for PayPal to decide on such matters. And 
that PayPal was reasonable entitled to consider the evidence it did receive which contained 
details of the correct address albeit without a postcode.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman