DRN-3057609
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums she paid for 
a travel insurance policy.
Mrs Bs represented by Mr B.
What happened
On 18 February 2020, Mrs B took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mrs Bs policy covered her between 21 
February 2020 and 20 February 2021. In total, the policy cost Mrs B £651.79, which included 
a discount of £41.51. The premium included cover for Mrs Bs medical conditions. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs B got in touch with the broker on 3 June 2020 to 
ask whether she could cancel the policy and get a cash refund of her premium.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mrs B a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered her the following options:
A pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price of 12 
months, at current market rates;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy, which would be a 12 
month policy at current market rates. A policyholder can choose to start the policy at 
any time within 12 months of buying it; or
A pro-rata credit towards a UK-only annual multi-trip policy, with a potential to 
upgrade the destination at a later date.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Great Lakes offer and Mr B asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our adjudicator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. He explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance 
law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid 
is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums 
relating to the risk it covered during that time. And he explained that Covid-19 didnt make it 
impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy 
started on 21 February 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The adjudicator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mrs B a credit voucher, which took into account the unused 
cover remaining on the policy. But he didnt think the formula Great Lakes had used to 
calculate the refund was fair and reasonable. So he recommended that Great Lakes 
recalculate Mrs Bs offer by using the actual price shed paid for the policy, divided by the 
total length of the policy and multiplied by the days that werent used. He didnt think though 
that the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive. So he didnt think Great Lakes needed 
to pay Mrs B a cash refund of her premium.
Great Lakes accepted the adjudicators recommendations. It recalculated the refund amount 
payable by way of a credit voucher to be £468.36.
Mrs B didnt accept Great Lakes offer. Mr B said a voucher wouldnt be any good for Mrs B, 
as she probably wouldnt fly abroad or travel anywhere in the next couple of years. He felt 
Great Lakes should pay Mrs B a cash refund for the remaining months of unused cover.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, I think Great Lakes current offer is fair. 
Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
I think Great Lakes offer is fair because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer 
a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mrs Bs cooling-off period ended on 3 March 2020. But the policy wasnt 
cancelled until 3 June 2020. So the cancellation was clearly significantly outside of 
the 14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use 
its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think 
this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the 
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I 
dont think the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs contract with Great Lakes entitle her 
to any refund of premiums.  
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint (as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great 
Lakes offer of a credit voucher for the unused portion of Mrs Bs policy is fair and 
reasonable. 
 Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for the core policy for a 366-day period if the 
policy hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 263 
days of cover, after the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying 
any risk of Mrs B making a claim after that point. 
Great Lakes has now agreed to recalculate the refund by dividing the actual price 
paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk. 
Im satisfied that this now leads to a fair outcome.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because while I appreciate Mrs B may not plan to fly or travel 
abroad, one of the options available to her is a UK-only policy. And I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that Mrs B is now unable to travel at all and is unlikely to 
travel to any destination. So while I appreciate travel plans currently remain 
uncertain, I think its likely Mrs B will be able to put the voucher towards another 
policy in the future. This means I dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly 
restrictive. And so Im not telling Great Lakes to pay Mrs B a cash refund of her 
premium.
Having considered everything, while I know Mrs B will be disappointed in my decision, Im 
not telling Great Lakes to pay her a cash refund of her premiums and Im satisfied its current 
offer is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer of settlement is 
fair and reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to calculate the refund due to Mrs B (to be paid by way of 
a credit voucher) by dividing the actual price she paid for the policy by the total cover length 
(in days) multiplied by days not on risk. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman