DRN-2076267
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs D payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2006.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. When I looked at the case, I 
asked for some more information, and this led me to reach a different view about the case. 
So I wrote a provisional decision explaining that I didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold; and 
I asked for comments. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld because the policy hadnt been 
suitable for Mrs Ds needs. This was because Mrs D suffered from a long-term 
chronic illness and the terms of the policy meant claims for existing illness werent 
covered.
I agree that such claims wouldnt have been covered. Santander says it would have 
told Mr and Mrs D about this term of the policy. I cant say whether this is true. But 
even if it had told them about it, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to 
whether they took the PPI. We asked Mrs D about her illness and she told us that 
she used medication and only had to take a couple of days off in winter due to a 
related infection. She said she was paid by her employer for any time she took off.
So I dont think Mr and Mrs D would have expected to make a claim under the 
policy as a result of Mrs Ds existing medical condition. I dont think knowing about 
this limitation in the policy would have affected whether they took the PPI
Ive looked to see if there are other reasons to say the PPI was mis-sold.. But I dont 
think there are. I will explain why.
I dont have strong evidence to show that Santander failed to make Mr and Mrs D 
aware the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure that they freely chose to take it. 
And the evidence is that Santander staff were trained to present the PPI as a 
choice.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, and this meant it had to make 
sure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds particular circumstances. But it doesnt 
look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. Being unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI 
would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs D received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when they would 
need to fall back on any savings or other help. So this all would have put Mr and 
Mrs D in a more secure position, if they eventually lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment.
Mr D says he was self-employed. With some PPI policies, it was more 
difficult for self- employed people to make an unemployment claim. But Ive 
looked at the terms of this particular policy, and it didnt make it difficult for 
self-employed people.
So, overall, I think the PPI would have been potentially useful.
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy, 
during the sale. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs 
would have affected whether Mr and Mrs D took the PPI. It probably still would have 
seemed potentially useful to them.
I didnt receive any further comments or evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman