DRN-3413474
Complaint
Ms M has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Ms M with a loan for £2,000.00 in August 2015. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of around £213. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Ms complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Ms M with this loan. So he thought that Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. 
Avant Credit disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ms complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Ms M could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that Avant Credit carried out a credit 
check. The results of which showed that Ms M was significantly indebted and had a 
significant history of payday and other high-cost credit.
So Im persuaded by what Ms M has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible her credit file reflected her choices rather than because 
she was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is 
unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Avant Credit, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Ms Ms version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Ms existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Ms M. As Avant Credit 
provided Ms M with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards her. 
Ms M has ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms M lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Ms M
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Ms M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms M paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms M to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded on Ms Ms credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman