DRN-1823399
The complaint
Mr P says that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) mis-sold him a home insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr P contacted RSA to make a claim for a stolen watch, which he had included on his policy 
as a specified high-risk item. RSA declined the claim. 
Mr P complained to RSA. RSA maintained its decision to decline the claim because although 
the watch had been insured as a specified high-risk item, Mr P hadnt selected cover for 
when the item was away from his home and it was stolen from a relatives address. RSA 
said that it was still willing to consider the claim for the watch, but the £1,025 single article 
limit would have to apply.
Mr P complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he 
thought the sales process was clear and that RSA had acted reasonably in how it dealt with 
the claim.
As Mr P did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P bought the policy through a price comparison website, which asked him a series of 
questions before transferring him to RSAs website to complete the purchase. RSA provided 
a screenshot showing what Mr P was asked on the price comparison website about items 
worth more than £1,000 that he wanted specified on the policy. The website asked for the 
details of the item and how much it was worth. The website then asked Would you like the 
item insured away from home? and the possible answers were yes or no. The additional 
information for that question said Not sure what to choose? Your home insurance will cover 
your item at home, but you can choose to pay a bit more to insure it while out too. RSA said 
that Mr P specified a watch and answered no to the question about the item being insured 
away from the home.
On that basis, I think that the website asked clear questions and that further information was 
provided on the website about insuring items outside of the home.
Ive also looked at the information Mr P was provided with when he took out the policy. Im 
aware that Mr P has said he didnt receive the documents, which might have been because 
there were sometimes issues with post being delivered to his address. Ive checked the 
address on the policy documents, which shows that RSA used the correct address, so Im 
satisfied that RSA sent them and that if they werent received that this wasnt RSAs 
responsibility.
Looking at the policy schedule this shows that as part of the policy Mr P had Upgraded 
Contents Cover with Accidental Damage. This section included a subcategory called High 
Risk Items and said High risk items are televisions, personal computers  jewellery  
watches. Two specified high risk items were listed, a females wedding ring and a watch, 
along with the sum each was insured for. The next subcategory was Personal possessions, 
there was no explanation in the schedule of what types of items this might be. One specified 
item was listed, a males wedding ring, along with the sum for which it was insured. 
Ive also looked at the key facts documents provided as part of the schedule. This said:
What is this type of insurance?
Our contents insurance cover protects your contents and personal items within the property, 
i.e. the things you'd take with you if you moved house.
The policy booklet then provided more detail about the types of cover. High risk items were 
defined in the same way as above and the Home Contents section said By contents we 
mean household goods, high risk items and personal effects which belong to or are the legal 
responsibility of the insured. It then went on to say: 
When in your home the contents are insured against loss or physical damage by the 
following causes:

6. Theft or attempted theft.
In the optional extras section, it explained what was covered under Personal Possessions 
and said:
By personal possessions we mean valuables, personal effects and clothing as described in 
the schedule which belong to or are the legal responsibility of the insured.
It then said Personal possessions are insured against:
Loss or physical damage within the British Isles and while temporarily elsewhere in the 
custody or control of the insured.
On that basis, I think that RSA provided sufficient information to explain the difference 
between the types of cover and whether that cover applied only in the home or also provided 
cover elsewhere.
Im aware that Mr P has said that it would be illogical for him to insure his wedding ring as a 
personal possession, so it was covered outside of the home, but not also to insure his watch 
in the same way. Whilst I can understand this view, I dont think it is a given that someone 
will always want to insure a specified item when outside of the home, even if they have 
insured other items in this way. Policyholders have different needs and circumstances, which 
may affect the level of cover that they take out for individual items.
Given that Mr P did insure a wedding ring as a personal possession, I think that this shows 
that the option of insuring an item as a high risk item or as a personal possession was made 
available to him and that he was able to make a choice about which cover he wanted. Im 
aware that Mr P had said that he thinks that his answers to the questions werent correctly 
passed on to RSA. However, Ive not seen any evidence that supports this view. 
So, thinking about all of the above, Im of the view that Mr P was asked clear questions when 
he took out the policy, the policy schedule showed which part of the policy his watch was 
insured under, the policy documents explained the difference between the types of cover 
and that there is evidence that Mr P was able to make a choice between the different types of cover offered for specified items. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint as I 
dont think there is evidence to show that RSA mis-sold the policy. As a result, I dont require 
RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman