DRN-1524361
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that Nationwide Building Society, trading then as 
Staffordshire Building Society, mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Ms B was sold a PPI policy when she took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1996. The 
policy protected her monthly mortgage payments if she was unable to work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Nationwide didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case. Having done so, Im upholding her 
complaint.
Nationwide says that this was a non-advised sale and Ive taken this to be the case. This 
means that Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Ms B. But 
Nationwide did still need to give Ms B enough information about the policy for her to decide if 
it was right for her.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the summary policy document in use at the time of this 
PPI sale. Section 5 h) of this document contains an exclusion clause relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions. It states that the policy does not insure the Insured Borrower against:
Recurrence of illness or disability for which treatment or advice has been received in the 12 
month period immediately preceding the Effective Date of Insurance.
But I dont think this important exclusion is highlighted sufficiently clearly in this document. I 
think it could easily have been missed by Ms B, even if she been given the time to read the 
document before deciding to buy the policy. Theres also nothing to show that Ms B was 
made aware of this exclusion by the person she spoke to in the branch at the time.
I think this policy exclusion would have been of importance to Ms B because she appears to 
have been receiving treatment for a medical condition at the time of this PPI sale. In our 
Consumer Questionnaire Ms B says that this condition had previously caused her to take six 
months off work. And in the Nationwide PPI application form, which she completed in 1996, 
Ms B disclosed the fact that she was receiving treatment for her condition in the place 
provided for this on the form. But this application form doesnt appear to explain  or even make any reference to - the 
exclusion in the policy relating to pre-existing medical conditions. So I think it would have 
been reasonable for Ms B to assume that, if the insurer of her policy accepted her PPI 
application she would be covered for this disclosed medical condition. Indeed, the insurer 
does appear to have actively investigated another disclosure which Ms B made on her 
application form - relating to her terms of employment - and determined that this disclosure 
had no affect on her cover under the policy.
In responding to the adjudicators view, Nationwide have pointed to the fact that Ms B 
received a Schedule of Insurance document following the PPI sale which detailed the cover 
under her policy. And it says that it doesnt think Ms B would have found it particularly 
difficult to understand the information provided to her in this schedule. Ive looked at a copy 
of this schedule, but it doesnt appear to mention the policy exclusion relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions. I can see that at the bottom of the form the following is stated:
Please Note: Any comments made in the declaration section will be excluded from this 
policy. 
But I dont agree that this would have made it clear to Ms B that her pre-existing medical 
condition would be excluded from cover. Shed disclosed this condition on her application 
form in a section headed Further details. So even if shed spotted this statement on her 
Schedule of Insurance, I dont think its likely she would have understood that the statement 
was referring to this section of the PPI application shed previously completed. In any case, 
this schedule would have been received by Ms B some time after shed already agreed to 
take out the PPI policy.
Nationwide has also pointed out that, in 2001, Ms B amended the cover provided by her PPI 
policy. And at that time, she ticked a box on her amendment form to acknowledge the fact 
that she wouldnt be covered for pre-existing medical conditions which shed consulted a 
doctor about in the previous twelve months and which recurs within twelve months of the 
start date. But this change to her policy was made some five years after the original PPI sale 
date. And its quite possible that she wasnt still consulting a doctor about her previous 
medical condition then and didnt think it likely it would recur in the following twelve months. 
So I dont think the amendment she made to her policy in 2001 is of any great relevance to 
this mis-sale complaint.
So, from all the evidence Ive seen, I dont think that Ms B would still have wanted to buy the 
PPI policy if shed been made fully aware at the time of the sale of the policys exclusion 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions. I think she would have thought that her existing 
medical condition was the one most likely to cause her to take time of work in the future, and 
she wouldnt have wanted to pay for cover that excluded this principal risk.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Ms B in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. So 
Nationwide should:
 
Pay Ms B the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society. I direct Nationwide to pay Ms B 
compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman