DRN-3151116
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Ms K says Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Ks 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Ms Ks representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ks. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Allianz made it clear that Ms K didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Allianz has provided a copy of Ms Ks credit card 
application from 1994. Looking at this I can see there is a separate section of the form 
for PPI, which Ms K completed by ticking a box, writing in her full name followed by her 
date of birth. The application doesnt say or imply that PPI had to be taken out  so if Ms 
K didnt want PPI she couldve left this section of the form blank.
So taking everything into account, I think Ms K chose to take out PPI and likely did so 
without undue pressure.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Ms K - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Ms K enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Ms K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms K  for example she 
was eligible for the cover and she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover such as those for unusual employment circumstances or existing 
medical conditions (Ms K told us about a condition she had in 1997, but as this 
happened after the sale by definition it cannot be pre-existing.)
There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems - 
so I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what Ms K reasonably thought she was 
buying from the information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Ms K would have declined the cover had Allianz done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Ms K would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Ks representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Allianz should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Ms Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Ks particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Allianz doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman