DRN-4212037
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to correctly 
process an international payment, resulting in a loss when the payment was returned.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
Santander have provided SWIFT records to show that the recipient Bank returned 
the payment as the receiving account was noted as closed.
Ive seen the payment details which Santander processed. They match the ones 
which Mr A, director of J, subsequently used with another account in which hes 
explained the transfer was successful. These details were submitted to Santander 
online by Mr A.
From the information available to me I cant be sure why the recipient bank returned 
the funds and stated that the receiving account was closed. But my investigation is 
about the actions of Santander, and from the evidence available Im satisfied that it 
processed the transfer correctly as per the instructions of Mr A.
The terms of Js account with Santander are clear on how returned international 
payments are subject to any applicable third-party bank fees as well as conversion 
back into Sterling using Santanders applicable exchange rate (see terms 16.5a and 
16.5b).
As Santander acted correctly and was not responsible for the return of the funds, I 
cant say that it is responsible for the loss J has experienced due to the applicable 
exchange rates. As such Im not persuaded that it needs to do more to resolve Js 
complaint.
Santander paid £100 as a gesture of goodwill for security checks delaying the 
transfer. Im satisfied that this is reasonable in the circumstances, particularly as 
these kinds of checks are necessary to protect customers from instances of fraud, 
and the delay caused was minimal.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr A. However, as Im satisfied that 
Santander has not made any error in processing the transfer request, I cant say that 
it is responsible for Js losses. As I think Santander acted fairly, I wont be asking it to 
do any more.
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold Js complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman