DRN-3629185
The complaint
Mr G, on behalf of A  a limited company, complains about Retail Merchant Services 
Limited (RMS) adding a new charge to their merchant services contract without their 
consent.
What happened
A had a merchant services agreement with RMS. This allowed A to take credit and debit 
card payments from their customers. Around September 2021 RMS began charging A £3 
per month for a service called RMS SOS. 
In short, RMS say this service offered a peace of mind guarantee for merchants. If a card 
terminal (and other related hardware) suffered accidental damage, then RMS would do their 
best to get things resolved over the phone or - where they couldnt remotely fix the issues, 
theyd organise a replacement.
A was unhappy with this service being added as they say they never agreed to it when 
entering into this agreement. They complained to RMS who didnt uphold the complaint, but 
offered A the opportunity exit the agreement free of charge. 
A was still unhappy and referred their complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As A 
remained unhappy, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Based on what Ive seen, the SOS feature was implemented based on feedback from 
customers and the monthly cost was relatively low. The terms of As agreement with RMS 
state:
1.8. We may, from time to time, vary or amend the terms of Our Membership 
Agreement at Our discretion. You will be notified in writing of any changes to these 
terms and conditions no later than 30 days before any variations or amendments are 
implemented.
This means there may be variations or amendments to the membership agreement  and 
RMS will give advance notice to A. As A didnt want to have to pay for the additional SOS 
feature, RMS gave them the opportunity to exit the agreement when they complained. In the 
specific circumstances of this complaint, I consider this fair and reasonable. It also goes 
beyond RMS obligations under this agreement. It follows that in this specific case I wont be 
directing RMS to refund to A the additional cost theyve been paying for this service.
A has since told us that they purchased their terminal outright at the beginning of the 
agreement - so leaving the agreement now would mean they lose out due to depreciation of 
their asset. Ive considered this point, but it doesnt change the outcome Ive reached. I say 
this because I havent found that RMS have done anything materially wrong in adding this 
service - and allowing A to exit the contract is a fair remedy to this complaint. 
If A owns the terminal outright and its not rented from RMS, it follows that they wouldnt 
need to return something to RMS that they have legal ownership of. Of course, if A was only 
renting the terminal, then it follows that a condition of this offer is they would need to return it 
to RMS. Based on experience, generally the overall cost of the terminal will be lower for 
customers who are in a position to pay upfront, rather than rent the terminal for the duration 
of the agreement. The depreciation point is noted, but almost all hardware of this nature will 
depreciate year on year - as newer models come onto the market with new features. I wont 
be directing RMS to compensate A for any depreciation. 
 
If A does indeed own the terminal, they now have a number of options including: exiting the 
agreement and then keeping the terminal to potentially use with another merchant services 
provider; or exiting the agreement and selling the terminal; or not exiting the agreement and 
paying the additional cost per month for the peace of mind RMS has described. Our Service 
cant advise A on what to do here, but A should now communicate to RMS what their 
preferred option is.
My decision will no doubt disappoint A, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in 
trying to informally resolve this dispute between them and RMS.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman