DRN-3302817
The complaint
Mr P complains that Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance
(Close Brothers) have made an unreasonable offer to resolve a complaint he made to
them.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January of this year. An extract from 
that provisional decision is set out below.
Mr P took receipt of a used car in April 2017. He financed the deal through a conditional sale
agreement with Close Brothers. Mr P paid a £1,000 deposit and under the terms of the
agreement he was to make 48 monthly payments of £223.46 after which, for a £10 fee, the
title of the vehicle would be passed to him.
Mr P didnt collect the car, his brother did, and Mr P says he was unaware his brother had
registered the car in his fathers name. He contacted Close Brothers and they located the car
at his brothers house. Mr Ps brother wouldnt hand over the keys and Close Brothers
contact notes say that it was agreed that a window would therefore need to be broken so the
car could be loaded onto a recovery vehicle. Mr P says he didnt agree to a window being
broken and that it wasnt broken when the car was towed away.
Mr P thought the car would be returned to him and he was upset to find that Close Brothers
took the car into safe keeping instead. Close Brothers told him he had defaulted on his
finance agreement with them because he needed to ensure the car was in his possession.
They agreed to give the car back to Mr P if he could provide them with the vehicle
registration documents and insurance in his name. There was a delay whilst Mr P applied for
these documents but by mid November 2017 Mr P had provided the registration documents
and Close Brothers system notes show they were in discussions with Mr P to have him
collect the car.
There were delays whilst a new key was sourced but in December 2018, when Mr P sent
transport to collect the car, he was disappointed to find the car was damaged. The window
was broken, the ignition barrel was missing and there was damage to the dashboard and the
bonnet. Close Brothers contact notes say:
looked into and someone who used to work in (the storage company) damaged it but now
works in key account and Customer to collect car - get 3 quotes on repairs and invoice
(the storage company) for repairs.
Mr P took some time to get those quotes but in May 2020 Close Brothers retracted their offer
to have the repairs paid for as they said an inspection by the company storing the car had
suggested the damage was related to fair wear and tear.
The car has not been collected and Mr P tells us hes now paid all of the instalments due
under the agreement.
Close Brothers offered to settle the dispute by allowing Mr P to voluntarily terminate the
agreement. In those circumstances they said anything hed paid over half would be refunded
back to him. They also said theyd pay for the £475 repossession charge to reflect the delay
in providing an inspection report from the storage company.
Our investigator thought Close Brothers offer was fair, but Mr P didnt. He therefore asked
for a final decision by an ombudsman and the case has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I dont currently agree with the investigators
opinion and Im expecting to uphold this complaint, at least in part. Please let me explain
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Mr P doesnt think he should have to pay for a car he has been unable to use and he thinks
Close Brothers should be responsible for any damage thats happened whilst the car has
been in storage.
The period from inception of the agreement to November 2017
I think the car was initially taken into storage because Mr P was been in breach of his
contract with Close Brothers. Clause 5 of the agreement said the goods should be kept in Mr
Ps control and at his address. That was clearly not the case and in those circumstances I
can understand Close Brothers repossessing the car and not releasing it back to Mr P until
they had sight of the vehicle registration documents in his name. Close Brothers system
notes show that Mr P provided the vehicle registration documents on 13 November 2017.
I think Mr P should therefore be held accountable for making payments towards his
agreement during this period as it was his failure to comply with clause 5 of the agreement
that led to possession being withheld. 
The period from November 2017 to the failed collection in December 2018
Despite the registration documents being supplied there was a further delay before collection
of the car was arranged. Close Brothers system notes show that Mr P made promises to
collect the car in January 2018 and on a couple of occasions in March 2018, but he failed to
do so. He then tried to arrange a replacement key but couldnt get one until much later in the
year. All told, that meant that collection of the car wasnt arranged until December 2018.
Whilst I can see that Close Brothers did offer to arrange a replacement key for Mr P in
August 2018, and that arrangement subsequently failed, I can see that in July 2018 Mr P told
them hed already ordered a key and was waiting for delivery. Im not therefore persuaded
that Close Brothers failed attempts to obtain a key delayed its eventual delivery.The key wasnt available because Mr Ps brother had it. Whilst I understand Mr Ps
difficulties in getting it back I dont think it would be fair to hold Close Brothers responsible for
that. Neither Mr P nor Close Brothers were aware of the damage to the ignition barrel until
the attempt to collect the car. So, I dont think it would be fair to suggest the delays waiting 
for a replacement key were Close Brothers responsibility and I think it would therefore be fair 
to suggest Mr P was responsible for paying for the car up until December 2018, as the 
delays were out of Close Brothers control.
The period after the failed collection in December 2018 
Close Brothers notes explain that the damage to the car was caused by someone who used
to work in (the storage company) so I dont think it would be fair to hold Mr P responsible for
rectifying those problems.
Whilst Close Brothers were initially prepared to fund those repairs (through the storage
company) they later retracted the offer and I dont think that was fair of them.
I dont think the inspection report from the storage company could fairly be considered
independent. They are, after all, the business who Close Brothers said had caused the
damage.
I also dont think it was fair of Close Brothers to ask Mr P to get quotations for the work. That
was surely for them to do as it was their agents who had damaged the car. It was also very
difficult for Mr P to obtain those quotes as he lived several hours from the storage location
and was unable to visit the site because of work commitments abroad.
So, I think it was unreasonable for Close Brothers to expect Mr P to pay for a car that wasnt
in his possession because damage had been created by their agents and that damage
meant it was undriveable and couldnt be collected.
I think Close Brothers will therefore need to refund any payments made towards the finance
agreement from, and including, December 2018.
The deposit
I think the fairest resolution would be for Close Brothers to retain a portion of the deposit to
reflect the amount of time I think Mr P should have been paying for the vehicle. I think Mr P
should have paid for the car between April 2017 and December 2018 and Im therefore
asking Close Brothers to retain twenty forty eighths of the deposit and to return the rest with
interest as Mr P has been deprived of the money. 
Distress and inconvenience
Whilst this service would often award a compensation payment in respect of any distress
and inconvenience the consumer has experienced, Im not minded to make any award in this
complaint.
Thats because I think its only fair to reflect the fact that these issues wouldnt have
happened if Mr P had kept to his side of the agreement and kept the car in his possession
and at his address. Im not persuaded there is enough information to suggest the car was in
Mr Ps brothers possession because of a mistake that Close Brothers may have made and,
whilst I understand he has been inconvenienced by, for instance, having to escalate his
complaint and get quotations for work, I think Close Brothers have also been inconvenienced
by having to chase Mr P to collect the car and supporting his request to have it returned tohim.
What to do with the car?
Mr P says hes now paid for the car in full but, as Im asking Close Brothers to refund quite a
lot of the payments Mr P has made towards his agreement it wouldnt be fair to also return
the car to him.
The car should be repaired and sold by Close Brothers who should refund twenty forty eights
of the sales revenue to Mr P.
The repossession charge
I can see that Close Brothers offered to pay the £475 repossession charge because they
accepted the condition report they supplied had been provided late. Id agree with that
conclusion and think that offer is a fair one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Close
Brothers Limited to:
Refund twenty eight monthly instalments in respect of the loss of use Mr P has had
from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment
to the date of settlement.
Provide a refund of the deposit, retaining twenty forty eighths of it and adding 8%
simple interest per year to the refund from the date the deposit was paid to the date
of settlement.
Waive the repossession charge or refund it if Mr P has paid it.
Repair the car and refund twenty forty eighths of the sales revenue to Mr P, once
auction costs have been deducted.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ps credit file in relation to
this agreement.
Close Brothers didnt provide any more information for me to consider but Mr P did. 
He said that the car was damaged in August/September 2017 when it was first moved. So, 
any attempt by Mr P to retrieve the car between then and December 2018 would have been 
wasted. He suggested it would be fairer for him to take responsibility for the payments before 
August 2017.
He explained that he was also asked to insure the car before removing it and had therefore 
wasted a years payment, from December 2017. He stressed that he was the one who had 
informed Close Brothers of the cars location and insisted that the window wasnt broken 
when it was loaded onto the tow truck in his presence.
Mr P queried the standard to which the car would be repaired and whether the business 
would therefore be able, or willing, to obtain a fair value for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps new submissions havent led me to change my view. I dont think it would be fair to hold Close Brothers responsible for delays that were the result 
of Mr Ps failure to comply with clause 5 of the agreement, or provide keys, or collect the car. 
I cant be sure when the car was damaged and irrespective of when that damage occurred 
the delay attributable to Close Brothers can, in my opinion, only fairly have commenced from 
the point at which Mr P tried to collect the car. 
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional information that has led me to change my 
provisional decision. So, my provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
Mr P has queried whether it would be in Close Brothers interests to repair the car to a 
satisfactory standard so that the car would have a chance of realising a respectable price at 
auction. I understand his concerns and for clarity I would explain that Id expect the damage 
identified in December 2018, that Ive detailed in the background to this complaint, should be 
rectified to a standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory on a car of this 
age and mileage. I dont think its possible to be more prescriptive.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Close Brothers Limited 
to:
Refund twenty eight monthly instalments in respect of the loss of use Mr P has had
from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment
to the date of settlement.
Provide a refund of the deposit, retaining twenty forty eighths of it and adding 8%
simple interest per year to the refund from the date the deposit was paid to the date
of settlement.
Waive the repossession charge or refund it if Mr P has paid it.
Repair the car and refund twenty forty eighths of the sales revenue to Mr P, once
auction costs have been deducted.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ps credit file in relation to
this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman