DRN-3091091
The complaint
Mr R, on behalf of the trust I shall call M, complains about the decision taken by 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to decline Ms business interruption insurance claim made following 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
M was the beneficiary of a Property Investors Protection Plan policy underwritten by AXA. 
The policy provided a number of areas of cover. These included buildings insurance cover. 
And rental income cover. In 2020, the property insured was rented by a third-party and, 
following the restrictions introduced by the Government to control the spread of COVID-19, 
this third-party had to close the premises. Mr R contacted AXA in order to claim for loss of 
rent. However, AXA declined the claim. 
AXA said the general loss of rent and the denial of access cover related to instances where 
physical damage to property had led to loss, but that COVID-19 and the restrictions had not 
caused such damage. AXA also said that the Murder, Suicide or Disease extension to this 
cover was limited to a specified list of diseases. And that, as this did not include COVID-19, 
it did not respond in the circumstances. 
Mr R was unhappy with this and ultimately referred Ms complaint to this service. However, 
our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that COVID-19 had caused 
damage, as defined by the policy. And he also agreed that, as the list of diseases in the 
policy didnt include COVID-19, a claim under that clause wasnt covered either. So, he 
didnt think AXA had acted inappropriately by declining the claim. 
As Mr R remained unsatisfied this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on M. But for 
substantially the same reasons as the investigator, I wont be upholding Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The starting point with any complaint about an insurance claim is to consider the contract of 
insurance the claimant has, and to apply the circumstances of the claim to the terms of that 
contract. So, the starting point is to consider the specific policy M had. 
Damage
Mr R has referred to the policy being an all risks policy. I note that AXA had indicated this to 
be the case early in 2021 during the claim and complaint process. However, this is not 
strictly accurate. As mentioned, the policy has a number of areas of cover. The buildings 
insurance cover is described in the policy summary document as being provided on the 
basis of All risks cover subject to certain exclusions. The policy summary does not 
include the same comments in relation to the rental income cover though. This document 
also confirms it is just a summary and refers to the need for a customer to read the actual 
policy wording document to establish the actual cover provided. 
Mr R has not said that M has suffered any damage to the premises that needs to be repaired 
or replaced. Mr R has just said that, as the premises were closed, M suffered a loss of rent. 
So, the claim being made is a claim under the rental income section of the policy. 
The core cover of the rental income section of the actual policy wording requires a claim to 
have been made under Section 1  Buildings. No claim was made under Section 1 of the 
policy, so it wouldnt be possible to claim under this core cover. 
There are extensions to this cover however. The first relevant one is the Denial of access 
cover extension which says:
We will cover you for loss of rental income resulting from interruption of or 
interference with the business caused by damage by a cause covered under 
Section 1  Buildings to property within a five mile radius of your premises which 
prevents or hinders the use of your premises, or access to it, regardless of whether 
your premises is damaged
Other similar extensions exist, including loss of attraction cover. But these work in a similar 
way. 
Damage is defined by the Rental Income section of the policy as 
Accidental loss or destruction or damage to premises used by you for the purpose 
of the business.
So, there might be a valid claim under this term if there has been damage to property, 
including Ms own property, by something which would be covered under Section 1 and 
which prevented or hindered the use of or access to the premises. 
The causes of damage covered by Section 1 are wide and might be described as being for 
all risks. But still requires there to have been damage. There are exclusions to this cover, 
but none are particularly relevant to Ms claim. Damage has a slightly different definition in 
Section 1, but this does not materially alter the requirement above. 
Mr R has argued that the damage required by the policy does not have to be physical 
damage. However, I note the requirement is that this damage occur to property. The term 
property is not defined by the policy, but given the context in which it is used throughout the 
wording I consider this most likely refers to physical property. I also consider this is the 
conclusion a reasonable person would come to when reading the policy at the time M took it 
out. I also consider that damage to physical property must inherently be physical damage. 
And I dont consider Ms property, or other property in the vicinity of M, was physically 
damaged as a result of COVID-19 or the Governments restrictions.
Mr R has also referred to the loss of use of Ms premises as a valid reason for the claim. It is 
possible that loss of use might be considered to be accidental loss as required by the 
definition of damage provided by the policy. However, I consider that, in order to claim, this 
loss of use must be more than temporary in nature and would likely involve a level of 
uncertainty about whether the property in question would be recovered. Whilst M, and its 
tenant, may not have been able to use its premises for a period of time, this was a temporary 
situation. It also is not a loss that would have required AXA to meet a claim for under 
Section 1. The property has not been replaced or reinstated  M and its tenant were able to 
make use of it once the Government restrictions were removed. Given the points above, I am persuaded that AXA acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining Ms claim under those parts of the Rental Income section that required there to 
have been damage.
Disease
A further extension to this section of Ms policy provides cover in relation to diseases. 
However, this cover is limited to claims resulting from, the occurrence of any of the following 
specified human infectious or human contagious diseases suffered by any person at your 
premises or with in a 25 mile radius of it
The policy then goes on to list a number of specified diseases, a list that does not include 
COVID-19. Having considered this term, as COVID-19 is not listed, I dont think it provides 
cover in the circumstances of Ms claim. 
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for AXA to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
AXA intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. AXA deliberately 
chose to define the cover by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
A range of insurance policies are available, and some provide cover for all notifiable 
diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, depending 
on the circumstances, provide cover for claims due to COVID-19. But this is not the type of 
policy M has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy M has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy 
does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the 
defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ms claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Ms policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied AXAs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means AXA should have met Ms claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for Mr R, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman