DRN-1428278
 
The complaint
Mr M makes a number of complaints about how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard has calculated interest on his account and how it has applied payments.
What happened
Mr M says Barclaycard has been applying payments towards his 0% balance transfer rather 
than balances where interest is due. He says that is not in line with the account terms and 
conditions and Barclaycard has admitted that it does apply payments in this way. Mr M says 
he has been overcharged interest and has asked Barclaycard for a full detailed breakdown 
of its interest calculations, as they differ from his own calculations. He says he has spent a 
significant amount of time trying to sort this matter out which has caused him stress. Mr M 
would like Barclaycard to issue a public apology and says he can't be the only customer in 
this position. He would also like compensation for what's taken place and a refund of the 
interest. Mr M says Barclaycard has acted illegally.
Barclaycard doesn't accept making a mistake and says it has given Mr M a calculation of the 
interest. It says it has also given Mr M a list of the variable factors taken into account when 
calculating interest.
Mr M didn't accept that view and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didn't think 
Barclaycard had made a mistake and thought Mr M had a mixture of a 0% balance transfer 
and purchase balances which attracted interest. The investigator though Barclaycard's terms 
and conditions said interest would be applied if the purchase balance was not repaid by the 
due date and that is what had taken place here. The investigator provided Mr M with 
examples of that and thought Barclaycard had allocated payments to the balance where 
interest was due rather than the 0% balance transfer.
Mr M doesn't accept that view and says he has evidence from Barclaycard that it doesn't 
follow that rule. He says the investigator's example failed to include a payment he made and 
his spreadsheet shows the correct daily balance. Mr M says Barclaycard told him it applies a 
payment to "statement balances". And it's not unreasonable for him to assume, that is the 
account balance, and so Barclaycard must be applying payments to the overall balance and 
not the purchase balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Barclaycard hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly. I realise Mr M will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about this complaint.
I make clear to Mr M that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies and so it's 
not our role to require a business to make a public apology or to investigate a business 
practice as Mr M would like. We are also not an auditing service and so it's not our role to check if the interest Mr M was charged by Barclaycard is accurate or to carry out any 
calculations about the interest. And we can't make a finding that Barclaycard acted illegally 
as Mr M says, as it would be for a court to make such a finding.
I'm satisfied that the account terms and  conditions say interest will be charged if a payment 
isn't made by a required date and that payments will be allocated to the highest interest 
balance first. I can see that Mr M accepts that is the case but says Barclaycard told him it 
doesn't apply that rule. I have looked at the letter to which Mr M refers to and I think 
Barclaycard was trying to explain the allocation of payments. I don't think the letter suggests 
Barclaycard was applying a payment to the 0% balance transfer before a purchase balance. 
And whilst I can see that Mr M says he interpreted it that way, I don't think that is what 
Barclaycard said or meant.
I have not seen any evidence that Barclaycard did apply payments incorrectly in any event 
and I think the investigator fairly provided an example of the payments to Mr M and why 
interest was charged . I am also satisfied Barclaycard has also provided detailed information 
about its calculations to Mr M.
Overall I don't think Barclaycard has acted unfairly or contrary to the account terms and 
conditions. I appreciate Mr M is unlikely to accept my decision but I'm satisfied that brings an 
end to what we in trying to sort out this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman