DRN-4044070
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc would charge her a penalty for making an 
internal cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) transfer.
What happened
Mrs C contacted Secure Trust for information to transfer her fixed rate ISA to an internal 
fixed rate ISA with a higher interest rate, but she was told that there would be a 210 day 
penalty. Mrs C disputed this as she wasnt closing the ISA or transferring it to another 
provider. She said the call handler was rude. Mrs C made a complaint to Secure Trust. 
Secure Trust did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. They said Mrs C spoke to a call handler 
regarding closing her ISA early without incurring an early access charge, but the adviser told 
her it wouldnt be possible. They quoted their terms and conditions which said she would be 
charged an equivalent of 210 days tax free interest if she closed her fixed rate cash ISA or if 
she transferred it to another ISA manager before the maturity date. They said that the 
charge would apply regardless of if the funds were being transferred internally or externally. 
They said the call handler acted professionally and provided her with the correct advice. Mrs 
C brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. She said Secure Trust confirmed the 
account didnt allow any partial withdrawals and Mrs C could only withdraw funds from her 
account by closing it, which was confirmed in her welcome letter when the account was 
opened. She said transactions such as these would mean the original account would be 
closed regardless of where the funds were going. Our investigator listened to the call Mrs C 
had and said the call handler provided her with correct information. But she said the 
comments from the call handler when Mrs C was put on hold, were unprofessional.
Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said Secure Trust Bank now 
mention a closure of the fixed rate ISA, but this is not a procedure used in a transfer. Mrs C 
sent our service information from different sources to show how to transfer an ISA correctly, 
such as a screenshot of the HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) website and two third party 
websites. She said the call handler was not knowledgeable and she was rude to Mrs C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mrs C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as how they run their internal ISA transfer process and 
any penalties involved in this as these are commercial decisions which a business can make 
and these can differ from business to business how they apply such procedures. It would be 
the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct 
Secure Trust to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mrs C has about the wording that is used in Secure 
Trusts terms and conditions. Term 39.6 states You will be charged if you close your Fixed 
Rate Cash ISA or if you transfer it to another ISA manager before the Maturity Date. The 
charge is the equivalent of 210 days' tax-free interest. This will be deducted from the 
balance in this Cash ISA and therefore you may receive back less than you have paid in. 
Mrs C was not intending to transfer her fixed rate ISA to another ISA manager. But Im 
satisfied that transferring the fixed rate ISA that she held with Secure Trust would result in a 
closure as part of an internal transfer. I know Mrs C would dispute this and she has sent us 
screenshots about ISA transfers from HMRC and third party websites. But the HMRC 
screenshot shows the following Investors have the right to transfer their ISAs whenever 
they want and this right must be included in the managers ISA terms and conditions. They 
do this by making a transfer application to the new manager, they cannot transfer an ISA by 
closing it and paying the proceeds into a new ISA with the new ISA manager. 
So here, they are referring to instructions to ISA managers. I say this as this webpage is 
titled Transfer an ISA if youre an ISA manager. The term investor would be Mrs C here. 
This talks about her making an ISA transfer by making an application to the new manager. 
But here, Mrs C was wanting to make an internal transfer, so there wouldnt be a new ISA 
manager. The text is clear that they (Mrs C) cannot transfer an ISA by closing it and paying 
the proceeds into a new ISA with the new ISA manager. So this is why this webpage is not 
applicable here.
Secure Trust would be switching one product (her existing fixed rate ISA) to another product 
as part of an internal transfer (to the fixed rate ISA she wanted to transfer into). This means 
that when they close the current fixed rate ISA as part of an internal transfer, they can 
ensure that previous years ISA contributions are protected as part of the transfer as 
opposed to them using the current years subscription. This would not be possible if Mrs C 
would transfer the money herself to deposit in a new ISA, even if this was still with Secure 
Trust, as they would have to complete the transfer for her, not Mrs C.
Although Mrs C has sent us another screenshot from a third party website about transferring 
ISAs, again this says she should not withdraw money from the cash ISA. The screenshot 
also shows Instead, speak to the new provider and fill in an ISA transfer form. Your new 
provider should then sort it all out, including moving the money over for you. But again, this 
references a new provider, whereas Mrs C was wanting to stay with her current provider. 
The other third party website says You are allowed to transfer ISAs from one provider to 
another and If you want to transfer your ISA from one provider to another, dont close your 
ISA account or withdraw any of the money from your ISA. But Mrs C was not intending to 
transfer from one provider to another. It would be Secure Trust who would be withdrawing 
the funds from one ISA to deposit into another of their ISAs which would have safeguarded 
her previous years contributions. 
So Im persuaded that by releasing funds from the existing fixed rate ISA before the maturity 
date, it would be deemed as a withdrawal  even if this would be deposited into a new fixed 
rate ISA with Secure Trust. I say this because the funds would be withdrawn from the fixed 
rate ISA she held to be deposited into a completely new fixed rate ISA with different terms to 
her existing ISA. It shows in the welcome letter Mrs C received upon opening her fixed rate 
ISA You can only withdraw funds from this account when it closes. If you choose to close 
the account before maturity, you will incur an early access charge as detailed in the ISA terms and conditions. Secure Trust have confirmed that releasing funds from the fixed rate 
ISA would be deemed as an early closure. So Im satisfied from the documents that Secure 
Trust provided to Mrs C that they made it reasonably clear that she would incur a penalty if 
she ended her fixed rate ISA before the maturity date. 
Ive listened to the phone call that Mrs C had with Secure Trust. The call handler makes Mrs 
C aware that as another person could be heard helping her with responses this would be 
deemed as a failed security attempt and she would need to go through security again. Im 
not persuaded that she was prompted as she had already given the answer before her 
husband gave the phonetic version of the answer. Im not persuaded that compensation 
would be due on this point as the impact was minor. I say this because the call handler was 
less than a minute into the security questions before the alleged prompting, and Mrs C says 
okay thats fine after the call handler explains why she needs to start again.  
The call handler correctly confirms Mrs C would have a penalty for making an internal 
transfer and she gives her an indicative figure of what the penalty would be. Mrs C 
challenges that a penalty would apply for an internal transfer and the call handler places Mrs 
C on hold to investigate this. The call handler returns and quotes what she believes is the 
applicable term. Mrs C asks her to double check, and the call handler says she is 100% 
confident that shes correct, but Mrs C asks her to double check as its a lot of money. The 
call handler says she would place Mrs C on a short hold while she checks. 
But unlike last time where there was silence when Mrs C was on hold, this time there was 
background noise, which leads me to believe the call handler thought she placed Mrs C on 
hold when she actually didnt, and she makes a comment about how tired she was, which 
she probably wouldnt have made if she thought Mrs C could hear her. Secure Trust have 
told us theyve informed the call handlers manager about this incident, which Im persuaded 
is proportionate here. So it follows I dont require Secure Trust to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman