DRN-3574721
The complaint
Mr L complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Mr L was given 2 loans by AvantCredit. He borrowed £1500 in March 2016 and agreed to 
repay this over 36 months. He repaid that loan in May 2018. Shortly after he did this, he 
approached AvantCredit and asked for a second loan. This was for £3900 and was due to 
be repaid again over 36 months. When Mr L made his complaint to AvantCredit, he had 
repaid the second loan. Mr L then received correspondence from AvantCredit to say it had 
passed on the loan to a third party.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
AvantCredit gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed to the first loan. It asked 
Mr L about his income and some basic information about his expenditure. It says it verified 
his income using an online tool. It carried out a credit check. It says those checks suggested 
Mr L had enough disposable income each month to afford the loan repayments. 
Mr L was entering into a significant commitment with AvantCredit. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that AvantCredit wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ls financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think AvantCredits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what the AvantCredit gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made 
a fair lending decision. 
AvantCredits credit check showed that Mr L was making use of other credit at the time he 
applied for loan 1. He had a mail order account, 2 loans, a mortgage and 2 credit cards. I 
can see that Mr L had 5 defaults also with large outstanding balances to repay. But I 
acknowledge AvantCredits comments about these accounts. I can see they were all from a 
few years before the loan application and it looks like Mr L had not made any repayments to 
them for quite a while. 
Mr Ls more recent open accounts that I have mentioned all appeared to be well maintained 
with no issues reported. It looked like the credit Mr L had taken out was affordable for him. 
His verified income and expenditure that he told AvantCredit he had, meant that along with 
the credit he had already committed to, that he could afford the repayment for loan 1.
So, at this stage I currently dont think AvantCredit did anything wrong when it agreed to give 
him loan 1, based on what it had gathered and what it had in front of it.
Mr L repaid loan 1. He then shortly after this came back and asked AvantCredit for a second 
loan in May 2018.
As before, AvantCredit asked Mr L for information about his income and expenditure. It 
largely carried out the same checks as it did for the first loan including a credit check. The 
checks again suggested that Mr L had enough disposable income each month to afford the 
second loan repayments. I think on balance, its checks were also proportionate. But again, I 
think it would need to react to what these checks showed, and I dont think it did for loan 2. I 
think it should have not agreed to lend and I will explain why.    
The credit check that AvantCredit carried out showed that Mr L had taken out new credit 
since it had last carried out a check on his finances for the application for loan 1. The 
additional active accounts had been taken out by Mr L within weeks of him applying for this 
loan. I can see that he had taken out 2 loans in April 2018 along with another in January 
2018. He also had an additional mail order account and another credit card.
Mr Ls outstanding debt and his monthly credit commitments had increased significantly and 
in a short space of time. Seeing all of this on Mr Ls credit report, demonstrates to me, on 
balance, that Mr L had become reliant on credit and was taking out loans to repay existing 
debt. This loan would do nothing to alleviate that or improve the situation he found himself in. 
By agreeing to loan 2, all that AvantCredit were doing was adding to Mr Ls growing debt 
burden. For all the reasons I have just mentioned, I dont think the loan repayments for loan 
2 were sustainably affordable for Mr L and AvantCredit shouldnt have agreed to it.  
In conclusion, I think AvantCredit made proportionate checks when it agreed to loan 1 and 
on balance didnt do anything wrong when it agreed to lend at that stage. But by the time Mr 
L asked for loan 2, his circumstances had changed and AvantCredit ought to have seen and 
reacted to this through the checks it made. I am currently minded to think it didnt make a fair 
lending decision when it agreed to loan 2. So, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and AvantCredit 
need to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Both parties have responded with no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Ls complaint.  
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the principal amount that he borrowed for 
loan 2, because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has been indebted with 
interest and charges on loan 2 that shouldnt have been provided to him.
Mr L mentioned in his complaint that AvantCredit sold loan 2 to a third party. But Mr L has 
provided information to our service that he had repaid this loan. AvantCredit will need to 
ensure when it puts things right that it removes all negative information relating to loan 2 on his credit file. This includes working with the third party, for it to do so if it has added any 
negative information on the file about loan 2 also.
AvantCredit should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loan 2 and treat all the payments Mr L has 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ls loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Discuss with Mr L an affordable repayment plan if there is still an outstanding 
balance to repay.
Remove all negative information about Loan 2 on Mr Ls credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman