DRN-2928126
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (t/a Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)) 
hasnt compensated him for breaches of contract and misrepresentation in respect to a 
kitchen he bought. He brings the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(S75).
Mr K has been represented by his wife in this complaint, but for ease of reference I shall 
refer to any statements shes made as being made by Mr K. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr K entered into a contract with a company  who I shall call M  to supply 
a kitchen. M visited Mr Ks property to measure up the space to enable them to design and 
supply the kitchen. The kitchen was due to be delivered on 30 November 2018. 
M delivered the kitchen on the agreed date. But shortly afterwards Mr K contacted M to say 
there were some parts missing. M said its despatch department said its records say the 
parts were on the delivery, but it said it would resend them and looked to arrange another 
delivery date. Mr K asked M if it would deliver after 5pm due to his work commitments, but M 
said it couldnt.
Theres a dispute about what happened after this time. M says it asked Mr K to come back to 
say what day he could accept a delivery. Mr K says he didnt hear anything further from M 
and was waiting for it to arrange a suitable delivery date. On 10 December 2020 Mr K 
contacted M to chase a response. M then spoke to Mr K and agreed a delivery date of 
14 December 2020. 
Mr K says that, due to the delay in delivering all the parts, his kitchen fitter was unable to 
install the kitchen until January 2019. So he says this meant he wasnt able to celebrate 
Christmas as he would have liked. Mr K also complained that M didnt measure his kitchen 
correctly. So he said this meant they had to reduce the storage space in the kitchen. He also 
said that the oven was closer to the wall than they wanted and he said this meant the oven 
door would continually hit the kitchen door  causing damage. He said he had to pay his 
fitter £390 to put this right.
Mr K also said he was unfairly coerced into entering into the contract because M told him the 
price would increase by around £1,000 if he didnt sign the contract. 
Mr K thinks hes entitled to a full refund of the price of the kitchen and wants compensation 
for all the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him and his family. M 
responded and said it would refund the £390 Mr K paid as a result of the mismeasurement of 
the kitchen and it offered £100 to compensate for not supplying everything at the start. It also 
offered £100 in compensation in respect to a complaint Mr K had about the way it had 
handled a data subject access request hed made.
Mr K didnt accept Ms compensation offer and was unhappy with the length of time it was 
taking to resolve his concerns, so he referred his claim to BPF to claim under S75. BPF 
responded to say M had taken fair steps to put things right, so it didnt uphold Mr Ks S75 
claim. Mr K referred his complaint about BPF to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision partially upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Mr K has provided a number of detailed and extensive submissions about why hes 
unhappy with the actions of M and BPF. Hes raised a number of legal arguments about 
where he thinks M has breached the terms of the contract and why he thinks BPF is liable. 
Ive read and considered everything Mr K has provided, but Im not going to comment on 
each and every point hes raised. No discourtesy is meant by this, but simply reflects the 
informal nature of this service. In this decision Ive focused on what I consider to be the key 
issues.
Mr K paid for the kitchen through a fixed sum loan agreement. S75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, BPF is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making M the 
agent of BPF during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr K entering into the loan 
agreement, starting from when he first approached M. But essentially, this means BPF is 
responsible for the acts or omissions of M in relation to the sale of the loan to Mr K. In other 
words, BPF has to stand behind the things M said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the 
sales process.
I should first state that Im only looking at the actions of BPF in this complaint  i.e. the way 
its handled Mr Ks S75 claim. Im not considering the actions of M in this case  Im only 
considering whether BPF has fairly considered its liability for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by M.
Mr K is claiming for both breach of contract and misrepresentation. I shall address each
point separately.
Breach of contract
Under the contact with Mr K, M had agreed to supply a kitchen. As part of the contract, M 
was to measure Mr Ks kitchen space and design and supply a kitchen to fit the space. 
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
contract that M had to measure the kitchen space with reasonable care and skill and then 
supply a kitchen that was of satisfactory quality.
The terms of contract between M and Mr K lists all the parts of the kitchen M was required to 
supply. And it agreed to supply this on 30 November 2018. M delivered the kitchen on the 
agreed date, but Mr K says there were some parts missing. M said its documentation set out 
that it had supplied the parts. But Im satisfied from Mr Ks testimony that its most likely 
some parts were missing. So I think there was a breach of contract in this respect. 
Mr K raised this issue within two days of the delivery  2 December 2018  and M spoke 
with him the next day to arrange a redelivery. Theres a dispute about what was agreed as 
next steps off the back of this call. Its not in dispute Mr K wanted a delivery for after 5pm 
due to his work commitments and M said it couldnt do this. But M says it explained this to 
Mr K and it was left that Mr K would call back with a date that he could do. Mr K says he was 
the one who had to chase M for a delivery date.
I note Mr K has shown he chased M on 10 December 2018 for a response. But this was a 
week after the telephone call when M said it couldnt deliver before 5pm. I dont think I have enough for me to say M caused delays in arranging a further delay in the parts. It seems to 
me that the primary reason there was a delay in delivering the parts is because Mr K was 
insisting M deliver after 5pm. But I dont think it was unreasonable that it said it couldnt do 
this. And, it was also Mr Ks responsibility to mitigate his losses. Mr K was aware of the 
implications for the kitchen fitting date if the parts were quickly delivered, so I think he could 
have taken steps to enable M to deliver the parts sooner. 
Ultimately Im satisfied it was fair for BPF to conclude M had taken fair steps to remedy this 
breach of contract. And I dont think its liable for any losses Mr K says hes suffered as a 
result of the delay  namely that his supplier wasnt able to fit the kitchen until January 2019 
meaning the kitchen wasnt installed for Christmas.
Ive also considered Mr Ks assertion that M didnt measure his kitchen correctly. Hes 
provided photographs of the kitchen installed and also a copy of the computer-generated 
design showing what the kitchen should have looked like. This shows there are minor 
differences to the kitchen supplied and the one designed  most notably a panel wasnt able 
to be fitted between the oven and the wall. Mr K also says that he has less storage than he 
did in the original design.
Mr K paid an extra £390 to his kitchen fitters to make the adjustments to the kitchen cabinets 
to be able to fit the kitchen. M has agreed to refund this. So I think it was fair for BPF to say 
M has already offered to fairly compensate his out of pocket expenses. But BPF should 
refund this cost if M doesnt do so.
Mr K feels hes entitled to a full refund of the purchase price due to this breach of contract. 
The CRA does set out a consumer may be entitled to a price reduction if the breach of 
contract cant be put right. In this case M cant remeasure the kitchen space as the kitchen is 
already installed. So I need to think whether Mr K is entitled to a price reduction. In thinking 
about this I largely take into account the impact the breach of contract has had on Mr K. As 
M didnt measure the kitchen correctly, Mr K says he has less storage space than originally 
agreed. He also says he doesnt have a panel between the oven and the wall.
I note Mr K says he has less storage space, but I need to think about what he would have 
had had it been measured correctly  i.e. to what extent hes lost out. I appreciate he says 
he has less space than he contractually agreed. But, hes ultimately got the storage space 
hed have received had it been measured correctly. So Im not persuaded hes lost out in this 
respect. 
However Mr K hasnt been able to use a panel hes paid for. So I dont think he should have 
to pay for that. BPF has said Mr K paid £40.70 for the panels and its now offered to refund 
the cost of this. I think this is fair. But Ive also considered the photographs Mr K has 
provided and I do agree that the kitchen doesnt look as it should. I also think the loss of the 
panel has had an impact on the aesthetics of the kitchen and I can understand why Mr K is 
unhappy with this. However, I dont think its had a material impact on the way Mr K can use 
the kitchen.
Ive noted Mr Ks comments that the microwave and oven door now hits the kitchen door. 
But I also note that the lost panel was 69mm wide, whereas the oven is 600mm. Im not 
persuaded that its the loss of this panel thats causing the problems Mr K says. 
Ultimately Mr K does have a fully functioning kitchen and almost the entirety of the kitchen is 
what M contracted to provide. And its fair that he pays for this. However, despite this, I do 
think the impact on the aesthetics of the kitchen does warrant a small price reduction of the 
kitchen cost. And I think a 5% reduction of the price is fair. Misrepresentation
Mr K says he was unfairly coerced into entering into the contract because M told him the 
price would increase by around £1,000 if he didnt sign the contract. But M has explained 
that Mr K bought the kitchen during a sale period. I understand the sale period was coming 
to an end and the price was due to increase. So M wasnt given a false statement of fact and 
I think it was fair for M to forewarn him of this. I dont think M pressured Mr K into the sale. 
It was Mr K who approached M to enquire about buying the kitchen. And Ive not seen 
anything to show M gave him false information about its services or pressured him into 
buying a kitchen he wouldnt have bought otherwise. 
Customer service from M
As I said above, in this decision Im considering what BPF should be responsible for under 
S75. As I said, S75 gives Mr K a like claim against BPF if there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by M. So, I must give consideration to what losses Mr K would 
likely be able to recover in court against M when considering what the like claim might look 
like. Im mindful when doing this that courts dont typically tend to make awards for non-
financial losses such as distress and inconvenience for breach of contract apart from in 
limited circumstances (which I dont think would be likely to apply here). 
Mr K says hes entitled to aggravated damages as a result of the severe distress he and his 
family has suffered as a result of Ms actions. I dont dispute Mr K and his family have found 
this matter upsetting. But, I think these are only awarded where significant mental distress or 
anguish occurs. As I said above, theres no dispute M breached some terms of the contract. 
But Im not persuaded these breaches are so severe that a court would award aggravated 
damages. So I dont think BPF needs to compensate Mr K further than what Ive set out 
above.
I also note M has offered to pay Mr K £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered in not receiving all the parts at the start. It also offered a further 
£100 in compensation for the delay in handling a subject access request he made. He 
should contact M directly if he hasnt received this compensation and now wishes to accept 
it.
BPF responded to accept my provisional decision. Mr K said he didnt accept my provisional 
decision and he said he would respond with further information. But he ultimately didnt 
respond any further. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has ultimately provided me with anything further to think about, I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I 
partially uphold this complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. And I require Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited to do the following:1. M has agreed to refund the extra £390 Mr K paid to his kitchen fitters to make the 
adjustments to the kitchen cabinets to be able to fit the kitchen. But BPF should refund 
this if M hasnt already done so;
2. Refund the £40.70 Mr K paid for the panels in the kitchen; and
3. Give a 5% price reduction off the cost of the kitchen.
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited should add 8% simple interest per year on these 
payments from when Mr K paid them until he gets them back. If it thinks that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
I dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman