DRN-4067786
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
(Chaucer) hasnt provided settlement for some accommodation and food costs incurred 
because of a travel delay, under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs L purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, to cover a trip abroad. The trip was 
being taken between 2 April 2022 to 16 April 2022. The policy provided cover for various 
pre-departure and post-departure risks. 
Mr and Mrs L have explained that the journey to the relevant destination was in two parts. 
This being two flights. The first flight was taken successfully. But the airline cancelled the 
connecting flight. And automatically re-booked a new flight, for the following day. 
This meant an overnight stay in the place the first flight had landed in. A hotel was booked 
for that stay, and costs incurred in terms of food, before boarding the next flight.
Mr and Mrs L submitted a claim to Chaucer for the cost of the overnight stay in a hotel, and 
for the food purchased whilst waiting for the new, connecting, flight. Chaucer considered the 
claim. It accepted there was a valid claim under the travel insurance policy  for travel delay. 
It provided a settlement of £50 to Mr and Mrs L. It said this was because the policy provided 
a benefit of £50 for every 12 hours of delay. As the delay in this case was 18 hours, it was 
£50 that was due.
Mr and Mrs L raised concerns that Chaucer hadnt agreed to settle the costs for 
accommodation and food they had submitted. Chaucer responded and explained that the 
travel delay section of the policy didnt provide cover for these things. So, Chaucer said it 
was satisfied it had dealt with the claim fairly.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, and so raised a complaint about the matter. Chaucers position 
on the matter remained the same. Because Mr and Mrs L remained dissatisfied with this, 
they referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator agreed the policy didnt provide cover for accommodation and food costs as a 
result of a travel delay. And they said there werent other sections of the policy that would 
apply to the claim either.
Our investigator also noted there had been some delays in the progress of Mr and Mrs Ls 
claim, and in Mr and Mrs L receiving a response to their emails chasing the claim progress. 
But they didnt consider Chaucer needed to do anything in relation to this element of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators outcome. They still felt the policy was 
misleading and unfair.
Because Mr and Mrs L didnt agree this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. When detailing my outcome 
below, Ive only referred to what I consider necessary to explain my decision on the crux of 
the complaint raised. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered all evidence 
and information when arriving at my decision. Ive explained my decision below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must not unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive thought about whether Chaucer 
acted in line with this requirement when it declined to settle Mr and Mrs Ls claim for 
accommodation and food costs. And Im satisfied it did act in line with this requirement.
As above, Chaucer provided a settlement of £50, for the delay in travel. This payment isnt in 
dispute. So, I havent considered it any further. 
Instead, Ive focused on what is in dispute. The question being whether Chaucer acted fairly, 
or not, in declining to settle the submitted accommodation and food costs.
Its important to note that policies dont cover every eventuality or every loss. As is common 
with insurance policies of this nature, the specific loss needs to be something listed as 
covered within the policy. If the specific loss isnt listed, then it isnt covered.
So, Ive reviewed the insurance documents, to see what these provided cover for. The trip 
was delayed in this instance because of a connecting flight being cancelled, and an onward 
flight being scheduled for the next day. I can see the travel delay section doesnt provide 
cover for anything in addition to the £50 travel benefit mentioned above. So, it doesnt cover 
additional accomodation and food costs. Given this, I dont find Chaucer acted unfairly in 
declining to settle these elements of the claim under the travel delay section of the policy.
Ive also looked to see whether any other section of the policy is relevant to this loss. But 
there isnt another section that applies in this instance. Mr and Mrs L originally noted they 
considered the cancellation section of the policy provided cover for the additional 
accomodation and food costs. But I dont agree. The cancellation sections only provides 
cover where the trip itself is cancelled. And that wasnt the case here. The trip went ahead. 
As the policy doesnt provide cover for the accomodation and food claimed for here, I dont 
think Chaucer has acted unfairly in saying it wont provide settlement for these elements of 
the claim.
Mr and Mrs L have said the policy is misleading, and unfair. Ive thought about what theyve 
said. But I dont agree. Im satisfied the relevant sections of the policy are clear in what they 
provide cover for. And the cover provided under these sections isnt unusual for a travel 
insurance policy of this nature. 
Mr and Mrs L have also raised the length of time it took for the claim to be considered, and 
that they had to keep chasing Chaucer for a response to the loss. Ive therefore considered 
this element of the complaint too.As above, an insurer needs to progress a claim promptly. Mr and Mrs L made the claim on 
23 May 2022, and received a response offering the settlement of £50 on 4 July 2022. So, it 
took around 6 weeks for them to be provided with the outcome. Whilst Chaucer has pointed 
out it had a large influx of claims which caused the delays, I think its reasonable to say there 
was some delay in providing the outcome of the claim to Mr and Mrs L, given the 
straightforward nature of the claim.
From reviewing emails Mr and Mrs L sent to Chaucer during this time, I can see they did 
chase the matter, and their emails appear to have been unanswered until 12 July 2022. I can 
see how the lack of response would have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs L. So, Ive thought 
about whether there is anything Chaucer needs to do, regarding this element of the 
complaint. But I dont think there is. I think whilst frustrating the situation was frustrating, the 
impact of the above wasnt sufficient to warrant compensation.
Mr and Mrs L have said the delays and lack of responses meant their ability to buy food for 
their family was affected, as they were awaiting a reimbursement of £343.87 for the 
accomodation and food claimed for. But Mr and Mrs L were never entitled to a payment for 
these elements of the claim. So, I dont think a more efficient response would have altered 
the financial position in this respect. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company to do anything more in respect 
of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman