DRN-1355075
The complaint
Mr M complains that his car was inadequately repaired when he claimed on his Skyfire 
Insurance Company Limited policy. 
What happened
Mr M was involved in a car accident in April 2018. He notified a claim on his Skyfire policy 
and his car was taken in for repairs. Amongst other things, this involved removing and 
reinstalling the boot seal. There was a dispute about whether the amplifier had been 
damaged in the accident, but it was ultimately replaced. Skyfire says this was done on a 
goodwill basis, whereas Mr M says it was liable. In late 2018, he complained about delays 
and service  and was offered £200 compensation. That complaint wasn't referred to us.
In June 2019, Mr M noticed his amplifier was losing bass. He set up a camera in the boot 
and captured water getting through the boot seal and leaking onto the amplifier. He went 
back to the authorised repairers, who he says replicated the water test and then crimped the 
seal  which seemed to stop the leak. He asked them about his damaged amplifier, but they 
said it was caused by a known fault so he'd need to contact the manufacturer. Mr M says he 
did, but they wouldn't help due to the water damage  and told him it wasn't a known fault. 
Mr M complained to Skyfire. Given the conflicting opinions, it arranged for an independent 
engineer to inspect the car. Mr M met him and showed him the water test video. The 
engineer produced a report which said the water leak and damage hadnt been caused by 
the repairs. So Skyfire didn't uphold the complaint. Mr M referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think there was enough to show it was responsible for the damage. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. In summary, he said the amplifier had worked fine 
for 11 years. Then the seal was replaced incorrectly  and thats when the amplifier was 
damaged. He questioned what evidence there was to substantiate that it was a known fault, 
and pointed out that hed had earlier problems with the approved repairers. He also queried 
which points wed considered, and contested our investigators assertion that the amplifier 
had been replaced initially on goodwill (our investigator explained this didnt affect the 
outcome). As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
 
 
In response to our investigators view, Mr M wanted us to confirm all the points wed 
considered. Im not required to set all of these out, and I dont think that would be particularly helpful or appropriate here. We often have to summarise evidence and arguments, which is 
a reflection of the informal service we provide. But Id like to reassure Mr M that I've 
reviewed and considered all the information he and Skyfire have submitted. Where 
information is incomplete, inconclusive and contradictory, Ive decided whats more likely 
given the circumstances and available information. 
I consider the crux of this complaint to be whether Mr Ms amplifier was damaged due to 
poor repairs during the claim. He says it was, pointing out that he videoed the leak and that  
the approved repairers did crimp the seal when he brought the car in. He thinks there's a 
trend of the repairers not accepting responsibility, given the earlier dispute about replacing 
the amplifier. He also says the manufacturer confirmed there was water damage and told 
him it wasnt a known fault. But the approved repairers say the drain channel in the boot 
couldnt cope with the rain. And it leaked up because the seal sits too low  which is a 
design flaw. They say they pack[ed] the seal out so it would sit higher and water wouldnt 
enter over it  but dont agree this means their initial repairs were inadequate. 
In and of itself, the fact the approved repairers carried out additional work in June 2019 isnt 
enough to show their earlier repairs were poor  as they say they did this to counteract a 
design flaw. So I think it was sensible for Skyfire to arrange for an independent engineer to 
investigate. Whilst I appreciate that the car was inspected after the seal was raised, its clear 
from the report that the engineer was aware of this  and that he also considered Mr M's 
version of events and video when reaching his findings. He concluded that the leak and 
water damage werent caused by the repairs:
 After some investigation by the repairers and myself it is clear that once searched 
online this is a common problem with this model of vehicle with the water entering the 
vehicle over the boot seals and damaging the amplifier causing it to blow. There is 
actually a bulletin from [the manufacturer] where there is now a water shield available 
that sits over the amp and deflects water away from it preventing the damage. 
Therefore taking this information into consideration I do not believe the water leak and 
damage to the amp is caused by the repairs carried out to the vehicle and because 
this is a common problem that the manufacturers are aware of, no further action is 
required
I know Mr M isnt satisfied with the reference to online research. But I think its reasonable to 
place some weight on what both the repairers and independent engineer have cited about 
this. The engineer also went on to say that the repairers were able to inform him of the 
research theyd done and the contact theyd made with a local dealership about this. 
Ultimately, I consider it reasonable to rely on the expert opinion of the engineer, who Im 
satisfied has provided clear reasoning for his conclusion. Mr M hasn't done enough to refute 
this opinion, back up his assertion that the repairers provided false or misleading 
information, or show that the report is otherwise flawed.
Mr M has said he was expecting us to carry our further investigations. Our role is to make a 
fair and reasonable decision based on the available information. If we think more information 
is needed to do this, we'll request it. But as we act impartially, we don't advocate for either 
party; it's for Mr M to substantiate his case. Ultimately, I'm satisfied I can reach a fair 
decision. Balancing Mr Ms arguments and evidence alongside the expert report, and taking 
everything else into consideration, Im not persuaded the damage was more likely caused by 
poor repairs during the claim.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr M, but I hope Ive explained my decision clearly.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman