DRN-3021239
The complaint
Mr I complains about the length of time it took Barclays Bank UK PLC to remove a freeze on 
his account, after the court which had applied this said it could be lifted. And he complains 
about problems hes experienced on the account since.  
What happened
Mr Is account was frozen by court order. That isnt the subject of this complaint. What Mr I 
complains about is how long it took Barclays to respond, when the court said that this freeze 
could be lifted. He said that Barclays was apparently waiting for him to give permission for a 
money transfer which hed already given. And that despite his repeated efforts to get in 
touch, Barclays never responded. Barclays has acknowledged that this was its fault. 
Mr I also told us that hed had ongoing problems on his account for many months after this, 
which meant that he wasnt able to pay any bills by direct debit. Hes set out for us how this 
affected him, and told us about the impact it had on his relationships with other businesses.
Barclays has accepted that it did have the authorisation it needed to unfreeze Mr Is account 
on 8 January, but that it didnt act on this at that time. So Mr Is account was blocked until 5 
February, unnecessarily. Its also accepted that a restriction remained on his account, 
preventing him from setting up new direct debits, until 15 June, although it had previously 
told our service that this issue was resolved much earlier.
Our investigator thought that the offer Barclays had made, of £500 for the initial difficulties 
with removing the freeze on the account, then £200 for ongoing problems with Mr Is direct 
debits, was fair. She set out the position on his account in detail. 
Our investigator said that the court approved the lifting of the freeze on Mr Is account on 8 
January 2021, but that wasnt done, despite Mr I repeatedly contacting Barclays, until 
5 February. So Mr I had no money of his own during that time. His family lent him money, 
but that was embarrassing and stressful for Mr I. 
After Mr Is account was unfrozen, Mr I experienced ongoing issues with setting up direct 
debits from this account. He complained about this in mid-February 2021. 
Barclays replied on 16 March 2021, accepting this was its fault, but not saying when it might 
be fixed. Mr I faced ongoing issues for some months, and had to make all his payments 
manually during this time, although when our investigator wrote to Mr I, in August 2021, she 
understood this was now fixed. 
Our investigator said that although the direct debit problem was now resolved, it had caused 
difficulties for Mr I for some time. Mr I was no longer able to pay his insurer by direct debit, 
although he appeared to have been able to negotiate monthly payments by card. And 
Barclays had said that problems with his water bill would be resolved if he completed a new 
direct debit mandate. Our investigator accepted that there were other impacts on Mr I too, for 
example, Mr I couldnt set up a gym membership, because that relies on direct debit.
Our investigator said that we couldnt ask Barclays to request changes to Mr Is credit file, 
because its Mr Is creditors who update these based on payments they receive. Mr I could 
discuss this with his creditors directly  and our investigator understood that he hadnt 
missed any payments altogether. 
Our investigator thought two payments of compensation, one of £500 for the length of time 
Mr Is account was frozen after the court said it could be unfrozen, and another of £200 for 
the problems hed had with direct debits, did provide a fair outcome to his complaint. 
Mr I didnt agree. He said that a payment of a further £200 could not settle this, given all the 
stress, anxiety and depression that Barclays had caused. Because Mr I didnt agree, this 
case was passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand that Mr I was without access to his bank account for quite some time. But, like 
our investigator, I think that our service can only fairly hold Barclays responsible for the time 
between when the court said the account could be unfrozen, and when Barclays acted to 
unfreeze the account. So that means it isnt Barclays responsibility that Mr I didnt have 
access to his account over Christmas and new year. It is Barclays responsibility that he 
didnt have access to his account between 8 January 2021 and 5 February 2021. Barclays 
has accepted that, and its paid Mr I £500 to say sorry. 
Mr I has set out for us the details of why he doesnt feel this is fair. Hes explained the impact 
of having to rely on family for funds, and how distressed he has been during this period. 
I understand and accept that this will have been a difficult time for Mr I. But I also have to 
bear in mind that some of the distress that he was feeling during this time seems quite likely 
to have been a result of anxiety about a potential court case. And I understand that Mr Is 
credit score dipped at the time his account was frozen, and then remained lower than it was 
previously, but again, I cant be sure that this was all Barclays fault. I cannot rule out that 
this is as a result of his other account remaining frozen after early January.
I have considered what Mr I said carefully, but I do think that the payment of £500 that 
Barclays has made for this part of Mr Is complaint provides a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this part of his complaint.
Mr I then found that he was unable to set up new direct debits on his account. I can see that 
it took Barclays some months to fully reinstate this facility on Mr Is account. And during that 
time, it seems to have thought that Mr Is direct debit problem was solved, when it wasnt. So 
again, I accept that this would be frustrating for Mr I, and that hes been put to some 
unnecessary trouble here.
Mr I had three direct debits on this account, for two utilities and one insurance payment. He 
told us that he would have liked a fourth, for gym membership, but wasnt able to set this up.
Mr Is account was initially frozen by court order. It was during this time that his insurer wrote 
to say that it would no longer allow him to pay by monthly instalments, because his direct debit payment had been missed. I dont think that Barclays is responsible for the account 
being frozen at this time, so I dont think that this is something I can take account of, when 
Im considering compensation in this case. And I can see that Mr I was then able to set up a 
monthly card payment instead, which hopefully minimises the effect of this problem on Mr I. 
I know that Mr I wouldnt have been able to pay for a gym by monthly direct debit at this time. 
I think its likely that he could have used a gym or leisure centre on a pay-as-you-go basis, 
and whilst I understand that this may not have been his first preference, and not as cost 
effective, it seems likely that at least some gym attendance was an option for him. 
I can see that Mr I has needed to make a regular card payment for utilities, as its taken 
some time to set up the direct debit again. And I also think Mr I is likely to have tried to set 
this up again more than once, because Barclays wrongly told Mr I that the problem was 
fixed, when it wasnt. So I do accept that this problem with his direct debits has been 
inconvenient and frustrating for Mr I too. But, bearing in mind that Mr I has been able to 
mitigate that impact to some extent, I also think that a payment of £200 that Barclays has 
offered for this part of Mr Is complaint provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of 
his complaint. So thats what Ill award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr I the additional sum of £200 
which it has previously offered, if it hasnt done so already.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman