The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance 
renewal for their buildings and contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F received a renewal quote from Triton mid-June 2019, to renew their buildings 
and contents insurance policy in July 2019. To ensure their policy remained in force, Mr and 
Mrs F paid the full premium before the renewal date. The amount paid was £857.03
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs F received a letter from the insurers. The letter explained to 
Mr and Mrs F that the insurers had stopped doing business with Triton in January 2019 and 
their policy wasnt in force. The letter told Mr and Mrs F to get in touch with Triton. Mrs F 
tried to do this, and Mr and Mrs F also took out alternative insurance with another provider. 
Mr and Mrs F were concerned their money had been taken fraudulently and they wanted it 
refunded.
They didnt hear anything from Triton and they never received their money back. So, they 
complained to Triton. Triton never responded to Mr and Mrs F, so they brought their 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr and Mrs F. He asked Triton to refund the premium of £857.03, 
pay interest on that amount and pay Mr and Mrs F £100 compensation for the upset the 
matter had caused them.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr and Mrs F have provided. I find 
their information plausible and persuasive.
Mr and Mrs F paid Triton before their policy renewed to ensure their policy remained active. 
And, once they were aware that they didnt have any insurance cover in force, they made 
DRN-1705936sure they sought cover with an alternative insurer. This cost them considerably more than 
Triton had requested in June 2019 to renew their policy. 
Mr and Mrs Fs original insurers cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide 
Mr and Mrs F with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton 
shouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs F any insurance cover with the original insurer. And they 
should have refunded the money Mr and Mrs F paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mr and Mrs F. Mrs F has 
also confirmed that she tried to speak to Triton several times to get their money back, and 
she wasnt able to get through to anyone. None of her calls were returned. Because of this 
upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mr and Mrs F £100 compensation. I think this 
amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr and Mrs F their premium of £857.03;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs F
paid for their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr and Mrs F £100 compensation for the upset theyve been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs F how much has been taken off. Triton
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr and Mrs F a tax deduction certificate if they ask for
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman