DRN-3386210
The complaint
Miss P complains that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED refused to let her reject a 
faulty car.
What happened
On 5 February 202212 Miss P acquired a second-hand car costing £6,080 funded by a 
deposit of £1,202 and the balance by way of a finance agreement with STARTLINE.  The car 
was approaching eight years old and had covered 92,095 miles. 
Miss P says it broke down in April 2021 after covering some 3,000 miles and she contacted 
the broker. She says she was told that the dealer would be in touch, but she said that didnt 
happen. STARTLINEs records show that after she stopped her direct debit in May 2021 
Miss P made contact and said she was in the process of handing the car back due to issues 
with the gearbox and shock absorbers.
STARTLINE says that she first complained about the car to it on 16 August, but she 
provided no evidence of the faults. It liaised with the broker which agreed to pay for an 
independent inspection.
The car was inspected on 30 July 2021 and by that time the car had covered 96,592 miles.  
The inspector concluded that the faults would not have been present tor developing at the 
point of sale. He noted the engine and gearbox undertray was partially missing and parts 
had been torn away. The engine started, but he was unable to move the car.
Miss P has said that she had the car towed to another garage after not hearing from the 
dealer and it had identified multiple faults. I gather the garage replaced a gearbox seal.
The car was eventually repossessed as Miss P had stopped making payments. After 
STARTLINE rejected her complaint Miss P brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that he 
did not have sufficient evidence to overturn the findings of the independent inspector. He 
also noted that the car had been driven for 4,927 miles since its acquisition and that did not 
support the claim that it was faulty at the point of sale.
Miss P didnt agree and said the mileage she had done was irrelevant. She said the car had 
broken down within the three-month warranty period and the dealer had not assisted. She 
said the car had not had a DSG service so it wasnt surprising it failed. She also said the 
independent inspector hadnt given the car a full and proper inspection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. STARTLINE is also the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was relatively elderly and had covered a significant number of miles so some wear 
and tear is to be expected. That said I have to be satisfied it was fit for purpose at the point 
of sale. The problem I have is the lack of evidence. I have the assertions made by Miss P, 
but no supporting documentary or third parry evidence to support her claims. She says there 
was no DSG service carried out, but I have not seen the service book. Nor have I seen 
anything from the garage which carried out the repair to the gearbox that would allow show 
me that the car was faulty at the point of sale.
It is clear it had an issue and this was present at the time of the inspection, but what is not 
clear is that this was present at the point of sale. The independent inspector didnt think it 
had been. I appreciate Miss P doesnt think he carried out a full inspection, but he is a 
qualified mechanic and I have to rely on his findings unless I have clear and strong reasons 
not to. 
I also have noted that Miss P was able to cover some 5,000 miles in the car and apparently 
3,000 before the fault came to light. That does not support the claim that the fault was either 
present or inherent at the time of sale. It is regrettable that older cars do suffer faults and 
these can manifest themselves within months of being sold but that does not mean they 
were faulty at the point of sale.
I have noted that Miss P says the dealer didnt help during the warranty period. I have not 
seen the warranty documentation and I cannot say what was covered, but I cannot hold 
STARTLINE responsible for that. It responded to Miss Ps complaint and arranged for the 
car to be inspected and as this did not indicate the car had been faulty at the point of sale it 
concluded it need not take further action. I consider that to have been a fair and reasonable 
response. 
I appreciate Miss P has found herself in a difficult situation, but I cannot say that 
STARTLINE has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman