DRN-3344061
The complaint
The executors for Mr Es estate complain that Clarke and Partners LLP unreasonably 
delayed acting on instructions for handling a stocks and shares ISA. The fund the ISA was 
invested in was suspended before the instructions were carried out.
What happened
Clarke and Partners administered the ISA held by Mr Es estate. The executors of Mr Es 
estate wanted to transfer that ISA to the beneficiary it was gifted to in Mr Es will. The 
beneficiary then planned to switch the ISA to a new investment fund. To do that, Clarke and 
Partners had the executors complete some paperwork. 
The timeline for gathering that paperwork is disputed, but some points are agreed. One such 
point is that Clarke and Partners met one of the executors  who Ill call executor C in this 
decision  in February 2019. 
Executor C had a dual role, as they were also the beneficiary due to receive the ISA from the 
estate. They were an existing customer of Clarke and Partners, and had in the past  
together with Mr E  discussed switching out of the fund the ISA was invested in. 
Another agreed point is that Clarke and Partners sent a letter after that meeting, confirming 
action wouldnt be taken until after probate was granted for Mr Es estate. That was granted 
on 10 April 2019, to executor C and another person  who Ill call executor D. Its agreed 
that Clarke and Partners collected the grant from executor Cs home, later in April. 
It's also agreed that Clarke and Partners wrote to executor D and asked them to return a 
signed authorisation form. Clarke and Partners say they sent the form out on 1 May, and 
chased it up on 14 May when they hadnt had a response. Executor D says they returned the 
signed form the day after they received it. Executor Ds signature on the form is dated 
13 May. Clarke and Partners say they received the form on 21 May. 
To transfer the ISA to the beneficiary and confirm the instruction about switching funds, 
Clarke and Partners arranged a meeting with executor C. Its not disputed the meeting was 
to be on 30 May, but was rescheduled by executor C for later in June. The transfer 
instruction was signed by executor C on 10 June. 
In the meantime, the fund the ISA was invested in was suspended on 3 June. That meant 
the beneficiary couldnt then switch the money to a different fund. 
The executors complain that Clarke and Partners should have had the paperwork prepared 
sooner. In response, Clarke and Partners say they appreciate the unfortunate timing of the 
funds suspension. But they felt the timing for the paperwork reflected the responses they 
had from the executors. So they dont feel theyre responsible for whats now happened.
I looked at this complaint back in February 2022, and explained my view in a provisional 
decision. While I could see the benefit if everything had been done quicker than it was, I 
found Clarke and Partners had acted in line with the general pace of things at the time. I 
couldnt see any point where there was an unreasonable delay being caused by Clarke and 
Partners. So I said they didnt need to do anything to try to resolve this complaint.
Clarke and Partners said they had nothing to add after seeing my decision. Ive taken that to 
mean theyre satisfied with my understanding of events.
The executors for Mr Es estate raised a number of issues with my decision. They felt Id 
been biased against them, and relied too much on things Clarke and Partners had sent in 
response to our investigation. They challenged some of that information, particularly around 
dates it pointed to for events in April and May. 
The executors also had some new information  theyve confirmed with the ISA provider that 
Clarke and Partners had asked twice for details about the paperwork needed to transfer the 
ISA to the beneficiary. Once in February and again in April 2019. 
The executors felt this showed thered been a two-month delay in Clarke and Partners 
progression of the transfer  they felt the paperwork could have been completed in February. 
Ive considered the executors extra comments, and will address the key issues in this, my 
final decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still of the view Clarke and Partners have provided a reasonable level of 
service. I appreciate the executors for Mr Es estate have disagreed with that view, so Ill 
explain the key points below in a bit more detail than I did last time. And where it will help to 
make my decision clear, Ill respond to some of the points they recently raised. 
As I noted last time, there wasnt an announcement or warning saying that the fund invested 
in would be suspended. While it may have been possible to see there were growing 
concerns about the fund, I cant see Clarke and Partners could have known that 3 June was 
going to be such an important date.
Instead, Clark and Partners look to have let the timescale reflect the interaction they had 
with the executors. I appreciate how the circumstances of the case  particularly the 
emotional impact on the executors of Mr Es death  led Clark and Partners to do that, rather 
than trying to force a quicker pace on the matter. I find it was reasonable for them to let the 
executors drive the flow of the work.
The executors have referred to clear and explicit instructions to have the transfer and fund 
switch done as quickly as possible. But looking at the documents produced in 2019, I dont 
agree thats the case. 
Its true the estate was to transfer the ISA to its beneficiary  executor C. And I appreciate 
executor C intended to move the investment to a new fund. But there are no records of 
executor C giving an immediate or urgent instruction for that.
Instead, Clarke and Partners wrote to executor C on 22 February 2019 and made it clear 
theyd wait for probate before doing anything further. I cant see executor C raised any issue with that at the time. Had they been expecting their instruction to be acted on more rapidly, 
Id have expected to see them raising an issue after getting the letter. 
Similarly, a phone call in April where executor C expressed their intention to make the fund 
switch stopped short of giving any particular timescale for it to be done by. So while I agree 
Clarke and Partners knew what executor C was intending for the ISA, the pace of things 
doesnt seem to have been an issue until after the funds suspension, in June 2019. And as 
Ive said, the timing of that was a surprise to everyone. 
There was still a general need though for things to be moved along efficiently. So Ive looked 
for any periods where matters were sitting waiting for Clarke and Partners to do something. 
The executors have commented about the time waiting for probate to be granted. They feel 
more could have been done at that point to prepare the paperwork. But I dont agree with 
them on that. Until probate was granted, the executors had limited power to give instructions 
about the estates assets. 
And getting probate isnt an entirely predictable process  it could have taken longer than a 
few weeks, during which time something could have happened to make any instructions 
about how to handle the ISA no longer suitable. 
So it was reasonable in my view to wait for probate to be granted before taking any further 
instructions about the estates ISA. 
Theres then the time taken to collect the grant from executor C. The executors have 
referred to Clarke and Partners insisting on coming to collect the grant, rather than have 
executor C take it in to their office. But that doesnt match up with what Ive heard in the call 
recordings where the offer to collect the form was made. 
In the call Ive heard, the offer seems to follow from Clarke and Partners wanting to help 
executor C  who had suffered an injury and was planning a bus trip to deliver the grant. And 
executor C sounded happy at the time to accept the offer. So I find its unfair to suggest 
Clarke and Partners insisted, or otherwise forced that course of action on the executor.
Collecting the grant then told Clarke and Partners who the executors were. I dont think 
Clarke and Partners needed to do more prior to that to identify and contact the executors. 
Ive heard a call recording where Clarke and Partners told executor C they were writing to 
executor D using the address details on the grant. That call is labelled with a date in late 
April, which fits Clarke and Partners position that the letter was then sent on 1 May. It also 
confirms why Clarke and Partners didnt later call executor D directly to chase up the forms  
the grant of probate didnt have a phone number for executor D on it. 
The follow up call to chase the letter fits that sort of timescale too  as the caller from Clarke 
and Partners referred to sending the letter over a week earlier. And it seems likely thered be 
that amount of time between sending the letter and chasing it up, given Clarke and Partners 
general approach of not being too pushy with the executors. The tone of the call to chase up 
the forms is in keeping with letting the executors set a pace that suited them. 
I appreciate the executors feel theres a lot of weight being put on these call recordings in my 
decision. But that reflects that these recordings contain a lot of information, and show me 
what actually happened at the time. They capture the tone of the process  notably different 
to the tone the executors comments now put on things when putting their side of the 
complaint to us. And that in turn creates a consistency in the evidence that I find convincing.The recordings convince me that Clarke Partners did act at a reasonable pace in this case. 
That pace reflects the tone of the interaction with the executors at the time. And while the 
executors have questioned whether some of whats been sent to us has been altered or 
made up, Ive not seen that anything that tells me thats the case. 
I cant see when executor D returned the form, but it cant have been any earlier than 
13 May  when it was signed. Its not clear why it then took until 21 May for Clarke and 
Partners to receive it, but I cant see theres been some failing by them thats responsible for 
that delay. 
I appreciate the executors see the two requests for paperwork from the ISA provider as an 
indication that Clarke and Partners wasted time in April getting something they should 
already have had. But  accepting as I do that Clarke and Partners had the details from the 
grant of probate in late April and sent the form to executor D in early May  I dont see there 
was any significant delay caused by asking for the forms again from the ISA provider. 
As a final comment on the pace set for this work, theres the rescheduling of the meeting at 
the end of May. Ive heard the calls where executor C asked for this delay. They didnt sound 
like they were in an urgent rush to get the transfer and fund switch completed. Instead, they 
seem to have been happy to fit the process around their other commitments. 
As Ive noted above, I find it was reasonable for Clarke and Partners to let the executors set 
the pace in that way, even though it ultimately meant missing a last chance to get things 
done before what became the key date of 3 June. 
Theres no doubt whats happened here was unfortunate and frustrating for the executors. 
But I dont consider it fair to hold Clarke and Partners responsible for that. Their service to 
the executors was reasonable, and appears to reflect a compassionate desire to respect the 
executors grief following Mr Es death, letting them set the pace and tone for the work. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman