DRN-2558757
The complaint
Mr D complains that a van that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FCE Bank plc, trading as Ford Credit, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new van was supplied to Mr D under a hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit that he 
electronically signed in September 2018. He had some issue with the van and a 
manufacturers field engineer identified issues with two of the cylinders and recommended 
that the engine should be replaced. The engine was replaced in March 2020 but Mr D said 
that there continued to be issues with the van. He complained to Ford Credit but wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He part-exchanged the van with a 
third party in September 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She said that 
she didnt have any evidence showing that the repair hadnt been successful and that she 
wasnt able to obtain any due to the van having been sold. So she said that she was unable 
to say for certain that there was a fault with the van that Ford Credit was liable for and that 
she didnt think it would be fair to ask Ford Credit to pay Mr D any compensation.
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman but hes provided no 
further information.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ford Credit, as the supplier of the van, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the van and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the van must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the van that was supplied to Mr D was a new van that had a price of £14,981 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
Mr D complained about some issues with the van but no fault was found until it was 
inspected by a manufacturers field engineer who identified issues with two of the 
cylinders and recommended that the engine should be replaced;
the vans engine was replaced in March 2020 and Mr D was provided with a courtesy 
van when his van was unavailable to him, but he returned the van to the dealer 
because he said that there continued to be issues with it;
the dealer says that it test drove the van numerous times but could find no fault with it 
and Ford Credit says that it would have arranged for the van to be inspected by an 
independent expert but that wasnt possible because of the government imposed 
restrictions in response to the pandemic;
Mr D part-exchanged the van with a third party in September 2020 and the invoice 
says that the van had a value of £10,400 and that £6,630.10 was paid to settle the 
hire purchase agreement;
its clear that there was a fault with the van and its engine was replaced  Mr D says 
that the van continued to be faulty but the dealer was unable to find a fault at that 
time;
Mr D has now sold the van to a third party so its not available for inspection and Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the repair hasnt dealt with 
the fault or that it wasnt an appropriate response to the fault with it;
I sympathise with Mr D for the issues that he had with the van but its been repaired 
and I dont consider that hes provided enough evidence to show that the van 
continued to be faulty; and
I consider that Ford Credits response to his complaint has been fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require 
it to pay any compensation to Mr D or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman