DRN-1855167
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M, represented by their daughter Mrs S, have complained about investment 
advice received from Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd.
What happened
In July 2017, Mr and Mrs M met with an adviser from Ascot Lloyd who advised them to 
surrender their existing with profits bond (with a value of just under £158,000, including a 
terminal bonus of nearly £63,000) and reinvest the monies into a managed portfolio with an 
ISA element.
In June 2019 Mrs S complained to Ascot Lloyd, saying that Mr and Mrs M had been scared 
into surrendering the bond and the new investment had performed poorly, their ISA 
allowances hadn't been used and the advice had been very expensive.
Ascot Lloyd didn't provide a response, so the complaint was referred to this service in 
September 2019. Ascot Lloyd eventually provided its file of documentation, including a final 
response letter dated 3 April 2020 that addressed only the surrender of the bond, saying that 
the adviser had correctly told Mr and Mrs M that the terminal bonus hadn't been 
guaranteed. 
Our investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld. He looked at two main 
issues - should Mr and Mrs M have been advised to surrender their existing bond and was 
the new recommendation suitable for them?
In respect of the former, he concluded that it was reasonable to suggest surrendering the 
bond as the significant terminal bonus wasn't guaranteed, so could've been reduced at any 
time. But the investigator didn't think that the recommendation of the managed portfolio had 
been suitable. He felt it was an over-complicated product given Mr and Mrs M's limited 
investment experience and that alternatives weren't properly explored, such as remaining 
invested with the existing bond provider. He also felt that Ascot Lloyd had let Mr and Mrs M 
down by failing to utilise their annual ISA allowances, which had been part of the 
recommendation, and also with its delayed response to the complaint.  
The investigator suggested that Mr and Mrs M be compensated by comparing the 
performance of the unsuitable portfolio with our standard low-risk benchmark, and also with 
a payment of £200 in respect of the service failures. 
Ascot Lloyd responded to say that it accepted that compensation was warranted for the 
trouble caused to Mr and Mrs M. But it didn't agree that the advice to invest in the new 
portfolio had been unsuitable. It said:
The recommended portfolio provided a tax efficient solution and met Mr and Mrs M's 
level of risk and retained their option of taking income in future years.The adviser outlined the concept of the investment and provided Mr and Mrs M with a 
clear view of how it worked. The existing bond was an old product type with limited 
options.
The suitability report considered the knowledge and experience of Mr and Mrs M and 
provided them with an opportunity to ask questions if they didn't understand any 
points. They also signed the agreement confirmed their understanding.
 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I agree that advising Mr and Mrs M to crystallise the gain they'd made on their with profits 
bond and take advantage of the terminal bonus was a reasonable thing to do. I understand 
that the bonus hasn't been reduced since 2017, but it's nevertheless been quite common in 
recent years for bonuses on with profits investment to be reduced significantly. So, I think it 
was reasonable to look at alternative ways of investing at that time.
But I can't see that the managed portfolio recommended to Mr and Mrs M was a 
suitable alternative. It was, as the investigator indicated, far from a straightforward product. 
By way of example, an extract from the advice report provided to Mr and Mrs M reads:
"I described to you how the Tatton investment process works which forms part of the Ascot 
Lloyd centralised investment process. This process has the benefit of input from Morningstar 
OBSR for fund selection, Ibbotson for asset allocation and Tatton to provide a discretionary 
portfolio service. The process includes timed re-balancing to keep the funds within your 
attitude to investment risk, whilst changes to fund selection and asset allocation can be 
made throughout the year rather than waiting till your annual review."
I accept that it's important that the way in which a recommended product works is explained 
to potential investors. But I don't think it's likely that Mr and Mrs M, with their limited 
investment experience, would have fully understood and wanted a product with this level of 
complexity. 
But even more importantly, I think the product carried with it a level of risk that was 
inconsistent with Mr and Mrs M's 'cautious' attitude to risk and general circumstances. They 
were both in their 70s and all their other money at that point was in deposit accounts 
or premium bonds.
I raised this additional point with Ascot Lloyd, saying that I thought the recommendation was 
at a higher level of risk than Mr and Mrs Ms existing bond had been because of the level of 
reliance upon equity performance. 
According to the advice report provided to them Equity (stock market) exposure will follow 
the respective Ibbotson strategic asset allocation risk profile target which is currently set to 
43%. In the shorter-term Tatton may deviate from this by a maximum of 12.5% (currently 
30.5-55.5%) to adjust actual portfolios to prevailing market conditions. 
Apart from this being another good example of the product's high level of complexity, I think 
it shows the recommendation carried too much risk given Mr and Mrs Ms cautious 
categorisation, particularly in light of the answers they gave in their attitude to risk questionnaire. This, for instance, indicated that theyd had a bad experience with some 
inherited shares previously and wouldn't be comfortable with a 10% short-term drop in value.
As such, an investment that could hold up to 55% in equities doesn't strike me as a suitable 
recommendation in the circumstances. So, I'm of the view that  Mr and Mrs M were mis-sold 
the investment and should be compensated.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs M as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mr and Mrs M would have invested differently. It's not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I'm satisfied that what I've set out below 
is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
What should Ascot Lloyd do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly, Ascot Lloyd must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
           Ascot Lloyd should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay to Mr and Mrs M £200 for the issues relating to not utilising their ISA allowances 
and the delay in responding to the complaint.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Managed 
Portfoliostill existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
 
Actual value            
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Ascot Lloyd 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs M wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mr and Mrs M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs M into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs M would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs M could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Capital 
Professionals Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd to pay Mr and Mrs M compensation as set out 
above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman