DRN-2556526
The complaint
Ms W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly charged her for foreign exchange losses.
What happened
Around February 2020, Ms W transferred £126,000 from her HSBC UK account to her 
account in Hong Kong. She says she wanted to take advantage of a more favourable euro 
exchange rate in Hong Kong. A few days later, Ms W noticed three unexpected debits from 
her account:
6 February 2020 - £971.04
10 February 2020 - £616.38
11 February 2020 - £1,350.63
HSBC told Ms W that these transactions were charges for foreign exchange losses  Ms W 
didnt accept this and complained to the bank. HSBC responded saying that the charges 
were applied correctly. The bank also made reference to a telephone call Ms W had with the 
bank around the time she completed the transfer. HSBC acknowledged Ms W hadnt been 
given accurate advice over the phone. To make up for this, HSBC refunded the largest of the 
three charges - £1350.63.
Remaining unhappy, Ms W asked this service to get involved. Ms W wanted clarity on these 
charges  such as how the charges were calculated and why she was charged in the first 
place, given she didnt exchange her money in to euros until after making the transfer to her 
Hong Kong account. Ms W wants all the charges to be refunded as well as compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience she suffered in dealing with this matter.
Our investigator concluded that HSBC didnt need to take any further action. The investigator 
was able to gather some more information from HSBC  the bank told us that Ms W had 
originally tried to transfer £126,000 in euros and made three attempts to do so. The 
payments didnt complete straight away and eventually Ms W decided to transfer the funds 
to her Hong Kong account using a different facility. 
However, the bank says the original euro transfers were still processing, but didnt complete 
because by that point, Ms W no longer had enough funds in her account. This resulted in 
foreign exchange losses, which the bank says Ms W is liable for. Our investigator 
acknowledged that Ms W couldve been given clearer information in the telephone call 
HSBC mentioned in its final response letter  and she agreed that refunding the largest of 
the charges was a fair way to put things right. 
Ms W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to carry out a final review. Ms W remains 
adamant that she didnt carry out the three attempts to transfer the funds in euros. She says 
shes always been able to get better exchange rates in Hong Kong so wouldve only tried to 
exchange her money there and not in the UK. As she didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think HSBC has acted fairly. I know Ms W will be disappointed to hear this, so Ill explain 
why.
Did Ms W attempt to transfer the funds in euros?
Ive considered whether Ms W carried out the transactions that led to the foreign exchange 
losses. Ms W says she didnt attempt to transfer the full amount in euros three times  she 
says she only transferred the amount to her Hong Kong account via several instalments and 
intended to convert the balance to euros there. So she doesnt agree that the charges were 
fair.
HSBC says Ms W set up an overseas transfer via online banking  this was for £126,000 in 
euros. The bank says that international payments can take up to four working days to 
process and, because the payment didnt go through straight away, Ms W went on to 
complete two further attempts of the overseas transfer in euros. 
As the funds didnt go through, Ms W called HSBC and its during this call that the bank says 
Ms W was mis-advised. Ms W then went on to use the global payments service to transfer 
the funds to her Hong Kong account. HSBC says, by the time the euro payments were ready 
for processing, the balance of Ms Ws account was no longer sufficient  given shed already 
transferred the funds. Because of this, the original three transfers could no longer be 
processed so the bank made the decision to cancel these.
HSBC has provided information from its internal records  these show three attempts to 
transfer £126,000 in euros between 30 and 31 January 2020. HSBC told us that the details 
on its records indicate that the transfers were made via internet banking. Given Ms Ws 
internet banking is most likely accessed only by her  I think its more likely than not that Ms 
W attempted the three transfers in euros.
Ive listened to the call Ms W made to HSBC on 1 February 2020. In this call, Ms W enquires 
about transferring funds in euros but that it hadnt cleared in to her euro account. So, despite 
what Ms W says now, Im persuaded that Ms W did complete the three attempts to transfer 
the funds in euros  even though she may have now forgotten that she did.
Foreign exchange losses
When Ms W first referred her complaint to this service, it seems she needed clarity on how 
the foreign exchange losses came about. Our investigator has helpfully given some more 
detail on this in her view  for clearness though, Ill explain what happened and whether I 
think HSBC applied the charges fairly. 
HSBC says Ms W wouldve seen the following messages when completing the instruction for 
the international transfers: that she needs to ensure her account has a sufficient balance as 
the payment may not leave straight away; and if the payment cannot be made, then the 
payment will be reversed and any foreign exchange losses or gains will be passed to her 
account. 
HSBC cancelled the original three transfers in euros because of a lack of funds. But the 
bank says, because Ms W requested immediate payments each time, the exchange rate that 
applied was the one in effect on the day of the attempted transfers. However, by the time 
these transfers were due for processing, the exchange rate had fluctuated  leading to a loss 
when the transfers were cancelled.  It was unfortunate that Ms W made three attempts to complete the transfer in euros. But it 
seems to me that HSBC made it clear to Ms W  via the message the bank says Ms W 
wouldve seen at the time she carried out the payment instruction  that she needed to 
ensure the balance of her account would be sufficient to meet the intended payment. The 
bank seems to have made it apparent that the payment may not leave straight away and that 
Ms W could be liable for foreign exchange losses if the transaction needs to be reversed. In 
this instance, the bank had to reverse the three payments because of a lack of funds. So I 
think HSBC acted fairly when it passed the foreign exchange losses on to Ms W.  
HSBC agrees its representative couldve been clearer when Ms W called on 1 February to 
enquire about her attempted transfers in euros. Had the bank been clear in this call, its 
unlikely Ms W wouldve gone on to transfer the full funds to her Hong Kong account via the 
global payments service. And if thats the case, then its likely that one of the original euro 
transfers wouldve processed successfully leaving only the remaining two to be cancelled. 
But, even if HSBC provided clearer information, by the time Ms W had called the bank, she 
had already carried out the euro transfer instruction three times. So, had the bank been 
clearer, it wouldve still resulted in her facing at least two of the three foreign exchange 
losses. So clearer guidance in the telephone call wouldve only partially mitigated the foreign 
exchange losses Ms W ended up being liable for. To put things right, the bank refunded the 
largest of the foreign exchange losses - £1,350.63  and given what Ive explained above, I 
think this is fair. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Ms W attempted three transfers in euros around the same. 
Because these didnt go through immediately, Ms W called HSBC and then went on to 
transfer the funds to her account in Hong Kong. This meant that the original three payments 
had to be cancelled due to a lack of funds - the exchange rate fluctuation that took place in 
between led to foreign exchange losses. I think HSBC acted fairly when it passed these on 
to Ms Ws account. 
The bank accepts that clearer information couldve been given to Ms W over the phone. And 
its likely this wouldve mitigated some of the foreign exchange losses Ms W ended up being 
liable for. I think the bank has acted fairly in refunding the largest of these and I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
Im not instructing HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything further in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman