DRN-2864595
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Hitachi, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. This was a new car so I 
dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs after six months, as is the case here, 
we are to assume it wasnt present at the point of supply, when Hitachi were responsible for 
its quality, unless the consumer can demonstrate otherwise. 
Im not persuaded that Mr M has been able to supply sufficient information to demonstrate 
there was a fault with the car.
Hitachi have explained that the dealership cant fault the car and that frequent oil changes 
may be necessary when the car isnt driven in a way that regenerates the Diesel Particulate 
Filter (DPF). 
Mr M has provided a record of his driving in the car that suggests he was driving within the 
parameters set by the manufacturer. But hes not provided any expert evidence to counter 
the arguments the dealership have raised and as theyre the experts on this issue, and its 
Mr Ms responsibility to demonstrate there is a fault with the car and that fault has been there 
from the beginning, I am not persuaded theres a problem with this car and I dont think 
theres sufficient evidence it was of unsatisfactory quality.
Im therefore not asking Hitachi to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman