DRN-4389573
The complaint
Miss A said that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to remove a mistaken hard 
search from her credit file. And she said Halifax wrongly linked her complaint about this to 
her former partner, writing to them together, which caused her distress.
What happened
Miss A told us that she and her then partner applied for a mortgage with Halifax in early 
2022, but unfortunately their search for a property wasnt successful. She said that long after 
theyd given up on buying a house, Halifax recorded a hard credit search on her credit file. 
Miss A said this affected her credit score. She was very unhappy about that, particularly as
she and her former partner had decided not to live together anymore, and she was trying to
move out. So she complained about this to Halifax. She asked Halifax then to look into any
effect on her former partners credit file too, but to do that separately to her complaint.
Halifax said it was sorry about the credit search, and it had taken steps very promptly to get
it removed. Halifax understands Miss A has told us the search is still visible on her credit file
with one credit reference agency (CRA). But Halifax said it had received confirmation from
that CRA that the search had been removed, and it sent this to our service.
Halifax accepts it also merged the two complaints, and wrote to both Miss A and her former
partner together about this. It also accepts that Miss A asked repeatedly, for Halifax to stop
this, but it took some time to separate out her complaint.
Halifax said it was sorry about this, and it wanted to pay Miss A £150. Miss A said that
wasnt anywhere near enough. So she asked our service to look into this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Halifax did carry out a
hard credit search which wasnt needed, but she was satisfied it had acted quickly to remove
it once it realised this. She didnt think it was Halifaxs fault that this search was still visible.
Our investigator said Halifax ought to have taken more care when it set up this complaint,
and oughtnt to have continued to communicate with both Miss A and her former partner
together, after this. But she thought £150 was a fair offer for the distress and inconvenience
described, so she said she wouldnt ask Halifax to do any more.
Miss A didnt agree. She wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it 
was passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I do think the credit search Halifax carried out on 1 November 2022 was a mistake. But 
Ive seen the correspondence Halifax sent to the CRA which is still showing a hard 
credit search for Miss A now, and the reply Halifax received from that CRA did confirm 
all searches from 1 November 2022 had been removed. So I dont think its Halifaxs 
fault if the hard search it had previously asked the CRA to remove, is still showing on 
Miss As credit file now. Im also pleased to see Halifax has asked that CRA again to 
remove this.
I also think it was a mistake for Halifax to write to both Miss A and her former partner
together about this issue. I think Miss A did indicate from the start that any concerns her
former partner might have about this credit search should be dealt with separately. And 
she made this very clear indeed in later correspondence to Halifax.
Miss A has told us how this affected her, and how it made an already difficult time 
worse, before she moved out of the home shed shared with her former partner. I think 
Halifax did have an indication from the start that things were difficult for Miss A, as she 
said that she was trying to move out of the shared home. So I think not only was writing 
to both Miss A and her former partner together not appropriate here, I also think Halifax 
ought to have been alive to that.
Because of that, I think Halifax should pay a little more compensation than it has 
previously offered in this case. I think a total payment of £250 would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. I understand that Halifax has already paid £150, 
so that means it would need to make a payment of £100 now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax said that it felt the decision was fair and reasonable, and it would pay the suggested 
compensation. 
Miss A replied to say that Id missed out the amount of time she had spent on the phone to 
Halifax, repeatedly being told someone would get back to her (she thought this was as many 
as 19 times) and no one ever called back. She said this issue was only progressed because 
she chased. She said this wasted her time and money. Miss A said that recorded calls would 
show that she was continually promised call backs and never once had one.
Miss A thought she should receive at least an extra £100, because she didnt think Id 
addressed that issue at all in my provisional decision. 
Im sorry if Miss A felt that an important issue had been overlooked here. But our service is 
an informal dispute resolution service, and I wont always set down in a decision every detail 
of a complaint that is brought to me. That doesnt mean those details have been ignored.
Id like to reassure Mis A that I did take into account, when I reached my provisional view on 
the appropriate level of compensation in this case, what shed told us about difficulties both 
in getting Halifax to look at what happened when the hard search was recorded on her file, 
and also then in getting Halifax to address her complaint. And although I havent listened to 
the calls Miss A made, I can see that what Miss A told us about this is consistent with what 
she said to Halifax earlier, so I do think its likely that Miss A experienced such difficulties. 
But as I did consider this as part of reaching my provisional decision, I dont think this is 
something that has been ignored in Miss As complaint. Ive reviewed this decision in full now, and I still think that the proposal I initially made provides a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint. So I dont think that the level of compensation ought to be increased, as 
Miss A suggested.
For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind in this case. Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Miss A £100, in 
addition to the payment of £150 it has already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman