DRN-2743872
The complaint
Miss H complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined 
her claim on her motor insurance policy. And complains about poor communications from 
LV.
What happened
Miss H claimed on her policy after a thief attempted to steal her car. She said the car was 
locked but the thief got into the vehicle without any signs of forced entry. She said the thief 
caused around £7,000 worth of damage, mostly to the internal wiring as they attempted to 
start the car. She said her purse and bank cards were stolen from her handbag.
Miss Hs car went to a garage for inspection and estimate of repairs. The repairer said there 
was no damage to the exterior. LVs engineer inspected the car and reviewed the estimate 
and confirmed the repairers findings. LV said Miss Hs claim wasnt covered because there 
were no signs of forced entry and no missing key and her possessions hadnt been locked 
away. LV said Miss Hs car wouldnt self-lock and had to be locked manually via the key. LVs 
engineer said he spoke to Miss H and she felt it possible that shed left the car open this time.
Miss H complained that LV had left her to pay for the damage and she said LV provided 
poor and misleading communications about her claim and declined it with no proof. She 
said she was certain she had locked her car and said there were ways thieves could gain 
entry without a key. She said this hadnt been considered by LV.
LV said there are devices and means of gaining entry to cars but if the thief had these they 
would not have needed to hotwire her car. It said its engineer noted that the attempted 
hotwire was an amateur job as the steering lock was still on and so the thief was an 
opportunist without any device. LV concluded the lack of entry damage meant the car must 
have been unlocked. 
LV pointed to section 2 of the policy, Fire and Theft: What is not covered: loss of damage to    
your car caused: If you havent taken care to protect your car. And further Loss or damage 
to your car by theft or attempted theft if: - Your car was left unlocked.
And then in section 12 General Conditions: Care of your car: You must always take the 
ignition key or device out of the ignition and remove them completely when your car is left 
unattended. You should lock all doors and close all windows and sun-roofs.
Miss H was unhappy with LVs response to her complaint and brought it to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was persuaded by the engineers 
report that the wiring damage was from an amateur attempt to hotwire the car and he said 
the car doesnt have the technology to be entered without a key and no entry damage. The 
investigator said LVs communications were in line with what he would expect during a claim. 
Miss H disagreed with the investigator and said shed been lied to by LV about what 
was happening to her car and had been lied to again as she had never said that she 
might have left her car unlocked. Miss H requested an ombudsman review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
This means I have to decide if it was fair and reasonable for LV to have declined Miss Hs 
claim. 
Miss Hs policy covers attempted theft, damage, and loss. And Im satisfied that a genuine 
theft has been attempted. I say that because Miss Hs car suffered damage as the thief 
attempted to hotwire it. And Miss H lost contents from her handbag which she had left in her 
car. 
Miss H complains her claim has been unfairly declined as she had locked her car and never 
said otherwise. LV says her policy doesnt cover claims for theft unless reasonable care has 
been taken to secure the vehicle. I have looked at the policy and LV are correct that it 
requires the policyholder to take reasonable care to secure the car and that it should be 
completely locked. 
Miss Hs car has been inspected by two experts, including LVs engineer, and they are 
agreed about the damage. LVs engineer said there was no evidence of tampering with the 
lock or signs of a break-in and so no entry damage. 
I understand that there is no key to Miss Hs car that is missing. And the engineers report 
states: it appears to be an amateur attempt to steal the vehicle, if the thief had a key 
there would be no damage as the vehicle has a mechanical steering lock (a key blade is 
needed to unlock) .
When Miss H mentioned other means of gaining entry to a car, I think shes referring to 
the thief using some sort of electronic device rather than an alternative means of 
achieving forced entry. I have considered whether or not its likely that a special device or 
equipment was used by the thief to gain entry to Miss Hs car.  
The engineers report takes in expert evidence about Miss Hs model of car from the 
manufacturer: This model does not have "auto lock" technology - this means that if the 
vehicle is left unlocked it will not lock automatically when the key is not in range of the 
vehicle. The expert advised that: in all the time he had been at [model of car] he had never 
experienced a theft which included piggy backing keys or cloning keys or reading key radio 
waves as they do not have the technology, to do this on these models as it is a simple 
system.
I think the experts have given compelling evidence that there hasnt been any other means 
or device used to gain entry to Miss Hs car. There does not appear to have been a key in 
range of the vehicle so it wouldnt have self-locked. Im also of the view that had there been 
an entry device there would have been no need for the thief to attempt to hotwire the car 
and the car would have been successfully stolen. 
The engineer concluded that the car was left unlocked and LV based its decline of the claim 
upon this. Having considered all aspects of this complaint I dont think this was unfair or 
unreasonable decision to have made. I have no reason to doubt Miss H that she didnt tell 
anyone involved in her claim that she may have left her car unlocked. However, as I dont think she did everything she could reasonably do to make sure his car was secure, I dont 
think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome if I required LV to pay her claim.
I have also considered LVs handling of Miss Hs claim and its communications. There was a 
small delay while LV considered its response to the claim and the expert reports that it 
obtained, and this was prolonged a little by staff sickness. However, overall I dont think LV 
caused avoidable delays with the claim or misled Miss H through its communications. I know 
it will be disappointing to Miss H, but I havent found any reason to uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman