DRN-3013004
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as J, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold two fixed rate 
business loans to the partners and acted unfairly when a change in the security was 
proposed.
What happened
In 2017, J took out two 15-year business loans from Lloyds. Both were for £150,000 with the 
interest rate fixed at 4.15% until 2025. They were secured on two commercial properties, 
which were leased to the same tenant.
In 2019, the tenant wished to vacate one of the properties early and it negotiated a 
settlement figure of £120,000 with the partners. 
The partners wished to use the lease settlement funds to convert the property to residential 
use and they approached Lloyds for consent. But the bank wouldnt agree to the partners 
plan without undertaking a revaluation and it indicated that it might require the £120,000 
surrender payment to be used to reduce the debt first. In the end, the partners decided to 
repay both loans in 2020 in order to accept the tenants settlement offer. As a result, they 
incurred break costs of £5,000 for early termination of the fixed rates.
The partners complained to the bank, saying that the terms of the loans hadnt been suitable 
for their business. The leases were only scheduled to last until 2027 and contained break 
clauses that could allow them to end in 2022. Accordingly, it would have been more suitable 
to have lending with a shorter term and a shorter fixed interest term. They also though the 
banks actions regarding the plan to convert the property were unfair. They said they had 
substantial resources which should have reassured the bank about their ability to repay.
Having looked at the evidence, our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly. In 
summary, he gave these reasons:
The sale of the loans was non-advised, so Lloyds was entitled to offer J the loans on 
the terms it did. However, in such a sale a bank should give customers enough 
information for them to make an informed choice about the loan  particularly 
regarding the fixed rate and potential costs for early termination.  
Before taking out the loans, the partners were given a product profile showing how 
the loans would work and the circumstances in which break costs would be charged. 
One of the examples given was £100,000 being repaid early in the fixed rate period, 
for which a break cost of £2,000 (2%) would apply if five years or less remained. This 
example isnt far removed from what the partnership paid. Moreover, it was a 
scenario that the partners could readily have applied to their own loans, giving them 
a reasonable expectation about level of break costs they might pay. The investigator 
therefore thought Lloyds made it clear that there would be a cost for early repayment, 
and it also gave the partnership a reasonable expectation about what those costs 
might be. 
The bank said the last property valuation was in 2017, which was on the basis that 
the properties were let to a high-quality tenant. Also, without that tenant, or with a 
change of use, the loan-to-value ratio (LTV) might change. The bank therefore 
wanted more knowledge before it committed to the conversion plan. Depending on 
the new valuation, the bank thought there was a possibility that some or all of the 
surrender settlement would need to be used to reduce the debt, in line with the 
required LTV.
As a general principle, the investigator didnt think it unfair for a lender to have a say 
over any decision that will affect the security it holds. Nor did he think it unreasonable 
for a lender to withhold its permission to alter the security if the lenders risk is 
affected. The investigator thought the partners plan did potentially present more risk 
to the bank, so he didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable for the bank to require an 
updated valuation and to inform the partnership that the debt might need to be 
reduced.
J didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. The partners thought the bank had acted 
unfairly. They made the following points, in summary:
When they took out the loans, Lloyds gave them no other loan options. The bank 
representative recommended the mortgages and gave advice.
When the conversion plan was discussed, the partners provided all the information 
the bank requested regarding earnings and accounts. They would have been happy 
to send other information about assets.
Lloyds gave no consideration to the fact the partners were long-standing customers 
with no adverse record. The bank involved the customers in unnecessary expense 
and delays by revaluations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. 
The sale of the loans
Ive seen no evidence from the time of the lending that suggests that bank gave advice. The 
loan agreements state that the borrowing wasnt a regulated agreement under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 or the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The agreements also 
contained a recommendation that the customer take independent advice before signing. Im 
therefore satisfied that the loans were non-regulated business lending and that Lloyds didnt 
give advice on their suitability. Nor was the bank required to give advice on suitability, or to 
offer other loan options.
In the circumstances, the bank was in my view entitled to offer lending on whatever terms it 
chose, as long as it gave enough information about the product. Ive looked carefully at the 
available documents from the sale of the loan. For the same reasons given by the 
investigator, I find that the information and illustrations given by the bank were sufficient for 
the partners to make an informed choice about whether to proceed with the loans. It was 
therefore for the partners to decide whether the loans on offer (including the length of the 
loans and the fixed rates) were suitable for the circumstances of their business.In particular, I think the information about the potential break costs was clearly 
communicated. I note that in the agreements, the amount of the break cost was a set 
percentage of the amount repaid early (4% if more than five years remained, 2% if five years 
or less), rather than an unpredictable cost based on future market rates, as is often seen in 
other fixed rate loan contracts. So, in my view, the bank provided clear information about the 
potential scale of the costs the partners would pay to exit the loans early.
For these reasons, I dont find that Lloyds acted unfairly when it sold the loans to the 
partners.
The banks response to the plan to convert the property
I agree with the investigator that Lloyds was entitled to consider how the partners plan 
would affect its own risk regarding the security for the lending. The termination of the 
tenancy and change of use could well have changed the value of the property and the 
assessment of the required LTV. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable to ask for an 
updated valuation and to warn the partners that debt reduction might be required.
I can understand the partners frustration at the time because they were planning to use the 
£120,000 settlement for the conversion and felt their other income and assets made them a 
safe bet for the lending. But a lender is entitled to take its own view of its lending risk, so I 
think it was reasonable for Lloyds to seek further information and to discuss possible 
changes to the lending arrangements. The discussions didnt reach a conclusion because 
the partners terminated the loans, so there was no revaluation and no revised deal between 
Lloyds and the partners.
For these reasons, I dont find that Lloyds acted unfairly regarding the lease settlement and 
the partners plan to convert the property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman