DRN-4091077
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with  PSI Pay Ltd (trading as ecoPayz) decision to close her account and 
retain her information.
What happened
In April 2022, Mrs K opened an account with PSI. On the same day Mrs K applied to 
upgrade the account. As part of its account opening processes PSI asked Mrs K to provide 
identification and proof of address documents. 
PSI reviewed the documents Mrs K provided. The documents Mrs K provided failed that 
verification check. Following this PSI decided to close Mrs Ks account and decline her 
upgrade request. 
After PSIs decided not to continue with Mrs Ks upgrade application and close her account, 
Mrs K contacted PSI and asked it to delete all the information it holds about her. She said 
this was her right in line with Article 17 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)  
right to erasure  commonly known as the right to be forgotten. 
PSI responded and said whilst Mrs K had a right to ask it to delete her information it needed 
to keep Mrs Ks data for a period of time. PSI explained that it had to comply with its legal 
obligations, applicable law and security/fraud concerns which meant it was unable to delete 
Mrs Ks data.
Mrs K complained to PSI. She said PSI had been rude and had no basis for not allowing her 
to open an account. She also said PSI should remove any information it held about her in 
line with the right to be forgotten legislation. In response to Mrs Ks complaint, PSI said it 
hadnt done anything wrong when it decided to close Mrs Ks account and decline her 
upgrade request. And reiterated that it would continue to hold onto Mrs K data in line with 
legislation and regulations it must comply with.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs K referred her complaint to this service. It was looked at by 
one of our adjudicators who said PSI hadnt done anything wrong and that Mrs K should 
contact the Information Commissioners Office regarding PSIs retention of her information. 
Mrs K disagreed. She said she doesnt understand why PSI wont delete her data as she 
isnt a customer of the business. And she wants PSI to provide the reason behind its 
decision to close her account.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint came to me to decide. On 6 March 2023 I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
Having carefully considered everything,  I dont think that PSI have treated Mrs K unfairly 
and so I am not intending to uphold her complaint. And Ill explain why.
Firstly, its not the role of our service to decide whether or not a business has breached data 
protection laws  thats the role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But we can 
look at whether a business has treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
those regulations in their course of business. I note Mrs K has concerns about the security of 
her data and is worried it might be misused or lost   if this is the case, she can raise these 
directly with the ICO. I can see that the investigator has already provided her with the ICOs 
contact details.
Mrs K told PSI that she wants the data it holds about her destroyed. She says she isnt a 
customer of PSI and believes that PSI has no basis to retain her information  in other words 
she has withdrawn her consent for it to continue to process/hold her data. PSI says it needs 
to keep information about Mrs K due to its legal obligations. And that it has a legitimate 
interest resulting from Mrs Ks account opening, which is to ensure that there are no further 
account opening applications made by Mrs K.
PSI originally recorded Mrs Ks data for the purpose of opening an account  it was part of 
its account opening process There are many activities related to providing an account that 
PSI need to carry out. For example, fraud, identity, credit searches and money laundering 
checks. These are all activities related to Mrs K opening an account, which PSI must 
complete to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations.
As Mrs K has pointed out, the GDPR sets out the right to be forgotten. But the regulations 
also specify that this is not an absolute right, and only applies in certain circumstances. In 
brief, PSI are entitled to keep Mrs Ks data. While there is a right to erasure under Article 17 
the GDPR, this is not an absolute right. The GDPR regulations say the right to be forgotten 
does not apply if processing by a business is necessary for several specific reasons, and 
these include if there is a legal obligation to retain the information. 
PSI is bound by the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds 
(Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017/692. Under these regulations they have a 
requirement to undertake customer due diligence when establishing a business relationship 
(regulation 27). Where regulation 27 applies, they must verify the customers identity 
(regulation 28). Any information obtained under regulation 28 must be kept for five years. As 
a result, PSI are required to keep the documents provided by Mrs K despite her request to 
delete it under the GDPR.
Having looked at all the information available to me, including PSIs actions and the 
information its provided I dont think I can say that PSI has acted unreasonably or unfairly in 
coming to that conclusion. I can also see that it followed its usual procedures handling data 
on a closed account. So, I wont be asking them to delete Mrs Ks data.
Ill next deal with PSIs decision to close Mrs Ks account and decline her request for an 
upgrade. As the adjudicator has already explained, its generally for financial institutions to 
decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for 
deciding whether to open or close accounts and providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. 
I know Mrs K is upset that PSI closed her account. But having looked at all the information 
available to me, Im satisfied that PSI had sufficient grounds to close her account and did so 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So, I cant say PSI has treated Mrs K 
unfairly when it decided it no longer wanted her as a customer.
Finally, I understand that Mrs K wants PSI to provide a proper explanation for why it closed 
her account. I can see that Mrs K has listed the terms and conditions of the account and 
says none of them apply to her. But PSI is under no obligation to tell Mrs K the reasons 
behind the account closure, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mrs K this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
to do so.
Having considered everything, my provisional decision was not to uphold this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. Now both sides have had an opportunity 
to comment I can go ahead and issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should not be upheld for 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of 
this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman