DRN-3657975
The complaint
Mr K complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) refused to carry out 
remedial work or consider his claim under the subsidence peril.
What happened
Mr K had buildings insurance with Admiral. He made a claim under his policy for damage 
which he thought was caused by subsidence. Admiral thought it was storm damage and 
carried out repairs. The work had a three-year guarantee.
Around two years later, Mr K reported that the wall cracking had reappeared. Admiral 
investigated the damage, but its expert concluded the cracks were due to natural shrinkage. 
Mr K didnt agree because of the time that had passed since the original repair, so he asked 
for another opinion. 
Admiral carried out a desk top investigation using the photos taken during the first visit. It 
concluded that the cracks were due to shrinkage.
Mr K was dissatisfied with the failure to carry out an on-site inspection and he asked Admiral 
to reconsider his claim. Having considered Mr Ks complaint, Admiral said it hadnt handled 
communication with him as well as it should, so it paid £50 by way of apology. It also agreed 
to arrange for a second on-site inspection.
On receipt of the second expert report, Admiral told Mr K again that the damage was caused 
by shrinkage. It confirmed that shrinkage wasn't covered under the policy because it was 
natural wear and tear. Admiral also said that natural shrinkage wasn't covered under the 
three-year guarantee.
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator initially thought Admiral should carry out repairs under the guarantee. 
However, after receiving a copy of the experts opinion, she decided that it hadnt done 
anything wrong. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr K disagreed. He sent in photos again of the brickwork which he thought showed clear 
signs of subsidence. He also questioned why it would take more than two years for 
shrinkage to show. To resolve his complaint, Mr K wanted Admiral to carry out remedial work 
and check for subsidence. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. While I realise this will come as 
a disappointment to him, I havent seen anything to indicate that Admiral did anything wrong. 
Ill explain.
Theres a lot of evidence in respect of this complaint. I wont comment on everything and our 
rules dont require me to. Instead Ive considered the complaint as a whole and Ill comment 
on any specific evidence which I think best helps explain my decision.
I think its also worth pointing out that its not within my remit to decide whether the damage 
is caused by shrinkage, poor workmanship or subsidence. Rather, it is for me to decide 
whether Admiral responded to Mr Ks claim and complaint fairly and reasonably given the 
evidence available, and I must rely on that same evidence.
The issue is that Mr K doesnt agree that the cracks in his walls and plasterwork are due to 
shrinkage. He thinks theyre either due to poor workmanship when Admiral completed 
repairs or, more likely, subsidence.
Admiral had two experts inspect Mr Ks home and a third carried out a desk top assessment 
of the photos. All three experts concluded that the cracks were due to shrinkage and that 
there was no evidence of subsidence. 
Shrinkage
Looking at the photos and comparing them to the description of shrinkage cracks in the 
reports, I havent identified anything which would cause me to think Admiral had reached an 
unfair decision about the cause of the cracks. The photos show cracks in the plaster which 
are typical of those caused by drying and the expert reports confirm that the shrinkage can 
take a while to appear. While Mr K says the cracks wouldve appeared sooner if they were 
due to the drying and natural movement, I have no reason to doubt the experts report on the 
time it can take.  
The reports compare the cracks which have developed to the lack of any cracks to the more 
structural brickwork repairs carried out originally. As the structural repairs havent opened 
up, the experts conclude that the cracks must be shrinkage. Im satisfied that the description 
and conclusion sound fair in the circumstances.
The policy document confirms that shrinkage isnt covered, so I see no reason to require 
Admiral to carry out any further repair work.
Subsidence
Mr K believes the damage is due to subsidence, but all three expert reports concluded that 
its unlikely. I appreciate that isnt an absolute guarantee and may be causing Mr K some 
concern. However, in the absence of any other evidence, I think it was reasonable for 
Admiral to rely on the expert opinion.
Mr K has noted in particular that the cracking inside his home under the first-floor window 
mirrors that outside his home in the external brickwork. Theres no doubt that there is 
cracking on each side of the wall, but the evidence shows that the direction of the crack is 
different. Externally, the crack runs along the mortar  Mr K describes it as the path of least 
resistance - and it has a stepped appearance, albeit not running very far. Internally, the 
plasterwork shows a vertical crack in an almost straight line running down from the window 
ledge, typical of that seen in many homes once plaster has dried. Therefore, I can see why 
the expert didnt agree that the cracking was mirrored on each side of the wall.I did note in one report that trial holes could be used to identify whether there is a drainage 
issue affecting Mr Ks property, should he want clarification. Thats because the 
neighbouring property shows signs of being affected by its drain which runs underground. 
I wouldnt expect Admiral to carry out this work because it has already had three opinions 
reaching the same conclusion and I wouldnt expect it to keep looking into Mr Ks claim once 
it is satisfied theres no subsidence. However, if Mr K wishes to have that reassurance, he 
can make arrangements for the work to be done privately. If he does so, and the results 
show a problem covered under his policy, he would be free to contact his insurer again to 
make a claim.
As it stands, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the damage is a peril covered 
under Mr Ks policy, so I see no reason to require anything of Admiral.
Goodwill
I understand Mr K was unhappy that Admiral didnt respond to his contacts when it shouldve 
done. Admiral agreed it hadnt handled communication well and offered £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Having considered the account notes, Im satisfied the offer is fair in the 
circumstances and in line with the type of award this service would require. Therefore, I 
wont be asking Admiral to offer any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman