DRN-2628933
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bentleys Motors (Warrington) Limited, trading as Bentleys Citroen, 
provided incorrect information as to the amount due in order to settle a credit agreement for 
one car and enter into a new credit agreement for another one.  
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs B and her husband, Mr B, attended a Bentleys Citroen dealership in 
order to change their two current cars for a family car. Both cars were on finance 
agreements, and it was intended that the new car would also be acquired via a credit 
agreement.
Having found a suitable replacement car, Mrs B was provided with a settlement figure for her 
current cars outstanding finance agreement by Bentleys Citroen.  Mrs B says that she was 
told that she would not need to pay any further instalments under that agreement once this 
settlement figure had been paid. She also says she was told she should cancel her direct 
debit to ensure no overpayments were made under that agreement.
Mrs B paid the settlement figure for her car and entered into a new credit agreement for the 
new car. However, shortly afterwards, the first finance company said that Octobers 
instalment remained due for the car she had traded in.
Mrs B contacted Bentleys Citroen and said that she thought this payment was being asked 
for in error. Following emails and calls with the finance company and Bentleys Citroen, which 
included the finance company sending debt collection letters, Mrs B made a formal 
complaint to Bentleys Citroen. 
Bentleys Citroen accepted that a mistake had occurred but said the settlement figure, 
provided for the car in October, was on the basis that the October instalment would be paid. 
It offered Mrs B £150 as compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs B was unhappy at Bentleys Citroens response. She said a fair outcome would be for 
the full amount of the instalment to either be paid by Bentleys Citroen. or waived and for 
compensation to be paid for the distress that been caused to her by being given misleading 
information. She complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. She said there 
had been confusion caused by Bentleys Citroen as to whether Octobers instalment still 
required paying, but it had accepted this and offered compensation to reflect the impact this 
had had on Mrs B. Our investigator said she thought the amount offered had been fair, as 
the outstanding contractual payment would have still been due under the agreements terms 
and conditions. So, Octobers instalment had been correctly requested by the finance 
company.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view. She said she thought Bentleys Citroen had 
deliberately misled her over the instalment. She said she was unclear why the October 
instalment for her former car had been requested when no request had been made for the 
car her husband had also had under a credit agreement. Mrs B said that Bentleys Citroen 
had withdrawn the offer of compensation when she had informed it she would be making a 
complaint to this service.
As Mrs B didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mrs B was wrongly advised about the October instalment being payable 
by Bentleys Citroen. Mrs B says she thinks this was deliberate, but I havent seen anything 
that would suggest that was the case. The confusion over the instalment may have arisen 
over Mrs B having altered the payment of her direct debit and moving it back by two weeks 
when shed changed employment.
Credit agreements are paid one month in arrears, and Ive seen that the settlement figure 
provided by the finance company for Mrs Bs original car was clear that it was based on the 
October instalment having been paid. So, I cant say the finance company acted incorrectly 
in seeking the October instalment after the settlement amount had been received. I also 
think its fair to say Mrs B was responsible under the terms and conditions of that agreement 
to make the monthly payments.
I appreciate that this situation has caused Mrs B upset and frustration. She was told she 
wouldnt have to make a further instalment and then, having taken out a new agreement, 
was told by the previous finance company that an instalment was still outstanding. I 
understand this isnt something she would have budgeted for, and I think that Bentleys 
Citroen should pay Mrs B compensation for the resulting distress and inconvenience that 
arose. 
However, I dont agree with Mrs B that its fair for Bentleys Citroen to cover the whole 
amount. This is because this was a payment Mrs B was responsible for under the agreement 
and it always needed to be paid. Bentleys Citroen mistake was to inform Mrs B that 
Octobers instalment didnt need to be paid when it did. So, I cant say its mistake caused the 
payment to arise rather than it misled her as to what was owed.
In these circumstances, I think Bentleys Citroens offer, to pay Mrs B £150 compensation, 
was fair as it reflects the impact on her of finding out she had been given misleading 
information about the amount that was due to settle the agreement. 
Ive seen that, although Bentleys Citroen had withdrawn the offer of the compensation, 
pending Mrs Bs complaint to this service, it has now paid this amount to Mrs B.
Mrs B has queried why the October instalment was due for her car, but not for her husbands 
car that was also returned, and the agreement settled. I cant answer that question as I 
havent seen the settlement quote for that car, or whether the monthly payment for October 
had been already been taken. And, even if the October instalment hadnt been paid for the 
second car, that wouldnt mean that Mrs Bs payment didnt fall due. As set out above, Ive 
seen evidence that this payment was outstanding, and the finance company was entitled to 
ask for it.
I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Mrs B but, for the reasons given above, 
Im not upholding her complaint and Im not asking Bentleys Citroen to do more.My final decision
As set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman