DRN-3774974
The complaint
A company Ill call C complains that Handeslbanken PLC (Handeslbanken UK) removed its 
BACS facility, then closed its account unfairly.
C is represented by one of its directors, Mr H.
What happened
C held a banking relationship with Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) in Sweden and 
Handeslbanken UK. Although this decision only relates to Cs complaint about 
Handeslbanken UK, I will refer to matters regarding the Swedish branch for the sake of 
clarity.
Between 2019 and 2021, C fell into dispute with the Swedish branch in connection with a 
loan. The Swedish branch requested security for the loan that C wasnt prepared to give, 
and C moved its banking facilities away from Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ). C says the 
Swedish branch then told Handeslbanken UK to close Cs account, which it subsequently 
did.
C said Handeslbanken UK had firstly withdrawn its BACS facility and later closed its account 
on instructions from the Swedish branch. Mr H complained and asked Handeslbanken UK to 
reinstate the account, but it declined to do so. It issued its final response to Mr Hs complaint 
on 8 November 2021. It said a decision had been taken to request a personal guarantee 
from Cs directors in order to support the provision of banking facilities in the UK. And that 
Cs branch in Sweden concluded that Cs BACS facility should be withdrawn when Cs 
directors declined to offer personal guarantees.
It said Handeslbanken UK had conducted a standard due diligence review and it 
acknowledged C had provided the information requested as part of that review. But it said it 
had decided to close Cs account nonetheless, and stated that the decision to do so and the 
decision to withdraw Cs BACS facility was made by Handeslbanken UK and was 
independent of anything that had happened in Sweden.
Mr H remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said hed been told 
the account would be closed because of a risk it would go overdrawn and said 
Handeslbanken UKs actions were as a result of a vendetta on the part of Svenska 
Handelsbanken AB (publ) in Sweden.
Our investigator looked at Cs complaint but she didnt uphold it. She said she was only 
looking at Cs complaint about Handelsbanken UK, and wouldnt comment on matters 
involving Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) in Sweden. She said Handelsbanken UK had 
acted in line with its terms of business, and hadnt made an error. So she didnt uphold Cs 
complaint.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings. He said Handelsbanken UK hadnt explained 
why it closed Cs account, that Handelsbanken UK had asked for a deposit of £8,000 as 
security to continue banking, and he said its actions were in breach of EU competition laws. 
He asked for an Ombudsman to review matters afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to 
do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to 
compensate a customer who has had their account closed. As long as they reach their 
decisions about that in a legitimate manner, this service wont usually intervene.
I know Mr H is upset that Handeslbanken UK closed Cs account and that he feels he has 
been treated unfairly. But having looked at all the information available to me, Im satisfied 
that Handeslbanken UK had sufficient grounds to close Cs account and did so in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. So, I cant say Handeslbanken UK has treated C 
unfairly when it decided it no longer wanted C as a customer. And Handeslbanken UK is 
under no obligation to disclose the reasons for its decision to C, so I cant reasonably tell it to 
explain itself any further.
Im also satisfied that it followed its process correctly. Section 13.2 of Handeslbanken UKs 
terms of business say that it can close Cs account by giving it at least two months notice. 
That section says Handeslbanken UK can close Cs account without notice in certain 
circumstances, and it lists the criteria it must meet in order for it to do so. And 
Handeslbanken UKs notice to close gave the required two months notice, so Im satisfied it 
met its contractual obligations.
Ive also looked at Handeslbanken UKs decision to withdraw Cs BACS facility. In doing so, 
Ive thought about what Mr H has said and Ive looked at the information Handeslbanken UK 
has provided our service in support of its decision. In its final response letter, 
Handeslbanken UK told Mr H that a BACS facility created a credit risk and that it had 
withdrawn the facility after C refused to provide a personal guarantee. 
I recognise Mr H didnt think it was necessary to provide a guarantee, but ultimately that is a 
decision for Handeslbanken UK to make. It is entitled to weigh the risks it considers are 
presented by its various facilities and to set the parameters under which it is prepared to 
operate those facilities. Mr H was within his rights to decline to offer security, but equally, 
Handeslbanken UK was within its rights to withdraw the BACS facility given C didnt meet its 
requirements. 
So because of what Ive said above, Im satisfied Handeslbanken UK acted reasonably and 
that its decision to remove the BACS facility wasnt unfair. And while I understand Mr H 
considers this all came about because of what happened in Sweden, Im satisfied  
Handeslbanken UK ultimately made its own decisions and did so in a manner was entitled 
to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C and C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman