DRN-3186058
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy as he believes that Santander UK Plc have recorded incorrect adverse
information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr Y had a current account with Santander that fell into arrears. Mr Y arranged to pay the
overdrawn arrears on the account but didnt feel that this was reported accurately by
Santander to his credit file. Mr Y was also dissatisfied how Santander had reported the
status of his account in general to the credit reference agencies, so he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Ys complaint. It acknowledged that it had made incorrect reports to
the credit reference agencies for the months of October and November 2020 following Mr Y
clearing the balance in full in September 2020, and it apologised to Mr Y for this and credited
£50 to Mr Ys account as compensation for the error. However, Santander maintained that
the rest of their reports to the credit reference agencies were correct.
Mr Y wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Santanders continuing
reports to the credit reference agencies didnt acknowledge a payment plan that Mr Y had
agreed to and made payments towards, as well as another month where Mr Y had made a
payment to Santander but was recorded as having not done so. So, they recommended that
this complaint be upheld in Mr Ys favour on that basis.
Santander didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigators, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 October 2021 as follows:
Santander have demonstrated that they made the following reports to the credit 
reference agencies for the account in question.
2019 Dec: Arrears status one
2020 Jan: Arrears status two
2020 Feb: Arrears status three
2020 Mar: Arrears status four
2020 Apr: Arrears status five
2020 May: Arrears status six
2020 Jun: Arrears status six - payment arrangement agreed
2020 Jul: Arrears status six - payment arrangement agreed
2020 Aug: Arrears status six
2020 Sep: No arrears reported (because arrears repaid in full by Mr Y)
At the start of August 2019, Mr Ys account was approximately £880 overdrawn. Mr Y 
was making payments of £10 per month to reduce the balance of the account, and 
Santander had authorised an overdraft on the account for Mr Y to enable him to do 
so and they also werent applying interest to the overdrawn balance.
However, in August 2019, Mr Y made a £150 withdrawal from the account. This was
contrary to the repayment agreement with Santander and took the balance of the 
account beyond the authorised overdraft limit.
Mr Y didnt make any payments towards the account in September or October 2019, 
and in October 2019, Santander charged a £50 unauthorised overdraft fee to the 
account. A second unauthorised overdraft fee was applied to the account by 
Santander in November 2019, when Mr Y continued to not make a payment towards 
the account. And this pattern continued in December 2019, when no payment was 
made to reduce the balance of the account, and when Santander applied a third 
unauthorised overdraft fee to the account.
Later in December 2019, Santander reported to the credit reference agencies that 
the account was in arrears, with an arrears status of one. For current accounts, such 
as this account, the arrears status corresponds to the number of months that the 
bank considers that the account has been in a state of unauthorised arrears.
Given that Mr Y had made a withdrawal of £150 in August 2019 that had effectively
counteracted the previous 15 months of £10 monthly arrears repayments, and given 
that Mr Y had made no repayments towards the account in the four months since that 
withdrawal, I find that Santander reporting that the account was only considered as 
being one month in unauthorised arrears in December 2019 to be generous, and Im 
satisfied that this reporting wasnt unfair or unreasonable in any way.
Santander also made the decision to withdraw the authorised overdraft from Mr Ys 
account in December 2019. Its for a bank to decide whether it will offer, or continue 
to offer, an overdraft facility to a customer. What this service would expect would be, 
if a bank were choosing to withdraw an authorised overdraft facility, that it would do 
so on the basis of a valid reason and would give the customer fair notice that the 
facility would be withdrawn.
In this instance, given that Mr Y hadnt made any payments towards the account for 
some time and had taken the balance of the account beyond the authorised overdraft 
limit, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to withdraw the overdraft 
facility. Additionally, Santander have been able to demonstrate that it sent letters to 
Mr Ys registered address informing him in advance that the authorised overdraft 
facility would be withdrawn.
In January 2020, Mr Y made two payments towards the account totalling £30, and he 
made another payment of £10 in February 2020. But at this stage, as explained 
above, Mr Y no longer had an overdraft facility on the account, and so Santander 
continued to report to the credit reference agencies that the account was in 
unauthorised arrears with an arrears status of two and three months respectively, for 
the months of January and February. It should also be noted that the payments that 
Mr Y made here didnt bring the balance of the account under the previously 
authorised overdraft limit. As such, Im satisfied that it was fair for Santander to have 
made these credit reference agency reports.In March 2020, Mr Y made a payment of £50 towards the account. He also spoke 
with Santander and agreed a repayment plan  to be reviewed after two months  
with the first payment due on the plan before the end of March.
Unfortunately, Mr Y didnt make the agreed repayment before the end of March, with 
the first payment of approximately £72 only being received on 1 April 2020. And, 
while a second payment at the agreed amount was received later in April, because 
the first agreed payment hadnt been made in March, as was required, Santander 
considered that the payment plan had been broken and continued to report that the 
account was in ongoing arrears without a payment plan in place, and with an arrears 
status of four and five for March and April respectively.
I realise that Mr Y feels that he did make the two payments required by the 
negotiated payment plan. But given that Mr Y didnt make the first payment in the 
timeframe required, I dont feel that I can reasonably censure Santander for 
considering that the agreed plan hadnt been met. And while Mr Y may contend that 
he only missed the agreed timeframe by one day, its still the case that the payment 
wasnt made by the date required. As such, Im satisfied that Santanders reporting to 
the credit reference agencies for the months of March and April is fair and 
reasonable.
In May 2020, Mr Y made a further payment of £72 towards the account. However, 
given that no repayment plan was in place at that time, and given that the account 
was still overdrawn with no overdraft facility in place, Santander reported to the credit 
reference agencies that the account was in unauthorised arrears with an arrears 
status of six. This is the maximum number of months that an account can be reported 
as being in arrears, and again, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for 
Santander to have made this report.
Mr Y then contacted Santander again and agreed a new repayment plan at £72 per 
month. It remained the case that the account was in unauthorised arrears, but for the 
months of June and July, Santander reported to the credit reference agencies that 
the account had an unauthorised arrears status of six, but that a repayment 
arrangement was in place.
However, Mr Y didnt make a repayment towards the account in the month of July 
2020, and so Santander considered that the repayment arrangement had been 
broken and as such in August 2020 they reported again that the account was in 
unauthorised arrears with a status of six but removed the notice that a payment 
arrangement was in place on the account. And again, given that no payment was 
made towards the account in the month of July, Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for Santander to make this report.
Towards the end of August 2020, Mr Y made a payment to clear the outstanding 
arrears on the account in full, and no further reporting of arrears was made to the 
credit reference agencies by Santander following this payment.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Santander have acted in 
any way unfairly or unreasonably in how theyve reported the ongoing arrears status 
of Mr Ys current account to the credit reference agencies.
Im aware that our investigator felt that because Mr Y had entered into a repayment
arrangement in March 2020, that this should have been reflected in the reporting that
Santander made to the credit reference agencies. However, given that Mr Y didnt 
make the first payment required by the arrangement within the necessary timeframe, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to conclude that the arrangement 
had been broken and Im further satisfied that the reports that Santander did make to 
the credit reference agencies for the months of March and April 2020 were accurate 
and fair.
Additionally, our investigator also felt that because Mr Y did make a payment in 
August 2020, that Santander should have reported that the previously agreed 
payment arrangement was still in place for that month. However, given that Mr Y 
didnt make a payment towards the account in July 2020, Im satisfied that it was fair 
for Santander to conclude that that payment arrangement had been broken and to 
report that no payment arrangement was in place for that month.
It follows from this that Im satisfied that Santander have made fair and accurate 
reports to the credit reference agencies for all of the months under consideration 
here. And as such my provisional decision will be that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr Y and Santander the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. Santander confirmed that they were happy to accept my final decision, 
whereas Mr Y didnt respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision on the same basis as outlined in my 
provisional decision above, and so it follows from this that my final decision here will be that I 
wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr Y was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman