DRN-2402321
The complaint
Miss A complains about how AXA Insurance Plc have handled her buildings insurance claim.
AXA provided its final response to Miss A on 22 September 2020, so my decision only 
focusses on events up to then. Any events mentioned that took place after this are purely for 
reference purposes.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXA said they had concerns about items Miss A was claiming for, as they believed 
the items were similar to ones claimed for under a previous claim
Its not unusual or unreasonable for an Insurer to ask further questions if they have 
concerns before they agree to settle a claim - or to require further information or 
evidence if they feel those concerns havent been satisfied
I can appreciate why Miss A feels frustrated her complaint hasnt progressed. But 
from looking at AXAs concerns and what theyve said in response to the information 
provided by Miss A, Im not persuaded AXA have acted unreasonably in requiring 
more information before agreeing to settle the claim
I can see a meeting was held between AXA, Miss A and Miss As Solicitor in 
September 2020. Following this AXA sent a statement to Miss A, that she needed to 
sign before the claim could progress any further. But I cant see this has been 
provided to AXA
From looking at what has happened and from what both parties have provided, Im 
not persuaded AXA have caused any unavoidable delays
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman