DRN-3733408
The complaint
Miss A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss A was provided with Capital One credit card in July 2015. The initial limit was £200. 
There was one credit limit increase in June 2016 to £450. Miss A says that the credit card 
shouldnt have been provided. Miss A was also provided with a second credit card by Capital 
One but her complaint regarding that credit card was resolved and so this decision only 
relates to the credit card issued in July 2015.
Capital One partially upheld Miss As complaint about the July 2015 credit card. In its final 
response letter, it said that the initial lending decision was taken more than six years before 
Miss A raised her complaint and so it didnt consider this aspect further. It accepted that the 
credit limit increase in June 2016 shouldnt have been provided. If offered to refund Miss As 
interest and charges but didnt offer to amend her credit card.
Miss A thought that her credit file should be amended as the lending was irresponsible and 
so adverse credit information should be removed. She also said that the initial lending 
shouldnt have been provided as she had poor credit, including having a debt relief order. 
She said that further checks would have shown the lending to have been unaffordable.
Our investigator received information from Miss A to show the complaint was raised within 
three years of Miss A becoming aware of her cause for complaint. Capital One accepted 
this. Our investigator therefore considered the initial lending decision as well as the credit 
limit increase. She thought the checks carried out before the credit card was provided didnt 
show the lending to be unaffordable. She noted that Capital One had upheld Miss As 
complaint about the credit limit increase but thought additional to the offer to refund interest 
and charges arising as a result of the credit limit increase, once the balance had been 
cleared, the adverse information should be removed from Miss As credit file.
Capital One agreed with or investigators view. Miss A didnt. She reiterated that there was 
an outstanding debt relief order on her credit file when the credit card was provided and said 
this showed she didnt have the disposable income to afford the repayments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
As set out above, this decision relates only to Miss As credit card account opened in July 
2015.
Capital One accepted that the credit limit increase on Miss As credit card shouldnt have 
been provided. The outstanding issues are whether Capital One undertook reasonable 
checks before the credit card was provided in July 2015, and whether these checks raised 
concerns that meant the credit card shouldnt have been provided. And whether the redress 
offered in response to its acknowledgement that the credit limit shouldnt have been 
increased is fair and reasonable.
Initial account opening
Before Capital One provided Miss A with a credit card it gathered information through its 
application process and carried out a credit check. There arent a specific set of checks that 
a lender is required to undertake before providing credit, but the checks need to be 
proportionate. In this case the credit limit provided was £200 and so I think it was reasonable 
that Miss A was asked about her income and that the information received was relied on 
along with the information from the credit check.
I appreciate that Miss A feels more detailed checks should have taken place and I note her 
comments about her commitments at the time she applied for the credit card, but in this 
case, particularly considering the size of the credit limit, I think the checks were reasonable. 
However, just because I think the checks were proportionate, it doesnt necessarily mean the 
lending was affordable. Therefore, I have considered what the information gathered showed. 
In this case the credit check showed that Miss A had defaulted accounts. However, these 
were historic, and the other information received didnt raise concerns. Miss A has explained 
and provided evidence that she also had a debt relief order in place at the time but as this 
wasnt shown in the credit results received by Capital One, I do not find I can say that it was 
aware of this. And as I dont think further checks were required, I therefore do not find that 
the credit information received raised concerns that meant the credit card shouldnt have 
been provided.
Miss A declared an annual income of £14,500 and said she was a student at the time. Based 
on this income I do not find that Capital One acted unreasonably by providing the credit card 
account with a £200 credit limit. 
Redress 
Capital One upheld Miss As complaint about the June 2016 credit limit increase. It said 
interest and charges relating to this lending decision would be refunded along with statutory 
interest on overpayments. Following our investigators recommendation Capital One also 
agreed that all adverse information would be removed from Miss As credit file once the 
balance had been cleared. I find this reasonable.
Putting things right
Capital One accepted in its final response letter that it shouldnt have increased Miss As 
credit limit to £450 and offered to refund interest and charges arising from this. It also, after 
our investigation, agreed to amend Miss As credit file.
For clarity this means that Capital One should, in regard to the July 2015 credit card: 
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £200. 
As I understand the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to 
Miss A along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. Capital One should also remove all adverse 
information recorded after June 2016 regarding this account from Miss As credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman