DRN-3631573
The complaint
Mrs S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold a Level Term Assurance 
(LTA) policy. This is because she understood she would receive a cash lump sum at the end 
of the policy, and she wasnt aware of the 25-year term.  
What happened
In August 2007 Mrs S took out an LTA policy in branch. The plan commenced in September 
2007; it provided a sum assured of £150,000 over a 25-year term with a £21.65 monthly 
premium. 
Mrs S complained to NatWest and explained that she didnt understand what the plan was, 
she wanted to cash this plan in, but this is not a savings or an investment plan. NatWest 
responded to the complaint in June 2022. It didnt uphold the complaint, in short it said Mrs S 
took the plan out on a self-direct basis, so no advice was given. 
NatWest confirmed policy documents were sent to the address it had on file and the 
information included terms and conditions and cancellation documents. It said although Mrs 
S felt she had wasted her money; the policy provided the benefit of life cover for a number of 
years.  
Mrs S remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. Our investigator issued her view and 
explained why she felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld, in summary she thought NatWest 
had provided clear and accurate information about the policy. Mrs S didnt agree with the 
investigators findings, she maintained that the policy had been mis-sold and she was not 
made aware about the nature of the policy during her meeting with NatWest.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has explained that she didnt understand what this policy was, and nothing was 
discussed during her meeting with NatWest. But I would like to point out that NatWest has 
confirmed this was a non-advised sale and so whilst its not possible for me to determine 
with certainty what was discussed when Mrs S was in branch, Im satisfied that NatWest 
didnt advise on the suitability of this policy. 
So, Ive considered the evidence, which is available to me and must decide what, on 
balance, is most likely to have happened.  
NatWest has said that Mrs S would have selected the sum assured, the term and the 
premium amount she wanted for the policy. Ive reviewed the policy documents Mrs S 
wouldve been sent following the sale of the policy and Ive seen no mention of a lump sum 
being paid at the end of the period, nor is it indicated that this policy is a savings or 
investment vehicle. The documents also made it clear that this was a term policy, so would 
not provide cover for the whole of Mrs Ss life.  
Additionally, Ive reviewed the policy booklet sent when the policy was taken out. I can see it 
stated the type of policy was LTA and the policy was due to expire in September 2032 with a 
25-year term. There is no reference to a cash payment being made at the end of the term 
and its reasonably clear that the policy only provided cover for a specified period. A cash 
lump sum is usually paid out in respect of some savings policies which are paid into over a 
specific period. 
Where a savings policy is taken out the provider will usually include an illustration or 
estimate of what might be paid out if premiums are paid. This isnt included in any of the 
documents here. Im satisfied that the documentation provided to Mrs S following the sale of 
the policy was clear about what the policy included, and no reference was made to paying 
out a lump sum at the end of the period or that it would provide cover for life.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman