DRN-1932540
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is about holding costs applied by CMC Markets UK plc (CMC) to a 
Contracts for Differences (CFD) position in his account. He says the holding costs were 
wrongly calculated on the opening price value of the position; that they should have been 
calculated on its daily value; and that, as a result, he has been overcharged.
What happened
CMC disputes the complaint. It says detailed provisions in the terms for Mr Os account 
made it clear that holding costs applied to CFD Margin Trades, like his, and that they were 
calculated on the basis of the relevant trades opening price. 
It also says that this has been applicable and has applied since the account was opened in 
2015; that as a gesture of goodwill it allowed Mr O to close the trades in the relevant position 
and to reopen them at current price levels (around the time of his complaint) in order to 
reduce his holding costs; but it remained the case that those costs would be calculated on 
the basis of the [new] opening price.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He agreed with CMCs position and he took the view that available evidence 
(including illustrations of the terms for calculating holding costs) supported its position. 
Mr O disagreed with this outcome. He referred to evidence of a CFD position held with CMC 
in a previous account, for which holding costs were calculated on daily values (not original 
values); he said this showed inconsistency on CMCs part; and he said the same 
inconsistency applied to two other positions held in his account for which holding costs have 
been calculated on daily values (not original values). 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman  to me. Mr O provided documentary evidence of 
the inconsistency he alleged, and I considered them. They were mainly screenshots. I took 
the preliminary view that they appeared to show inconsistency, as alleged, and the 
adjudicator shared this (and Mr Os evidence) with CMC for its comments. CMC explained 
as follows:
Upon review of the evidence it identified that they relate to Mr Os positions  in the 
same trades  in his previous account and on its previous trading platform.
Mr O opened a new account in 2015, into which he thereafter moved the positions; 
the holding costs terms for that account are as it has presented to this service; and 
they support the calculation of holding costs on opening price values.
Statements from the new account (in the new platform) do not show inconsistency, 
they show that for the complaint related position and the others that Mr O has used 
as comparators, the same approach of calculating holding costs (on opening price 
values) has applied.
The holding costs applied in Mr Os account have always been visible to him in his 
daily statements and account history.
Mr O was given an opportunity to comment on CMCs response. He agreed that his 
positions were indeed transferred from the previous account to the new account, but he 
argued that he was not informed about a change of terms with regards to the calculation of 
holding costs  and that CMC must be held responsible for having failed to give him such 
notice. He referred to a link he was sent at the time he was seeking information about the 
new account, which did not mention such a change. He also said that in June this year CMC 
sent him notice that financing of positions would thereafter be charged on daily price values 
(not opening price values). 
Overall, it appears that Mr Os position is that an element of inconsistency on CMCs part 
remains and that he ought not to be bound by any changes in the holding costs terms for the 
new account which were not brought to his attention at the time he opened the account (or at 
the time he transferred his positions).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that CMC has addressed and nullified the point of inconsistency I previously 
perceived. Mr Os complaint features the holding costs applied to the relevant position in the 
new account; the new account appears to have arisen from CMCs new trading platform and 
it had its own terms and conditions; it therefore follows that it would be wrong to compare the 
application of holding costs in the distinct circumstances of the new account with how they 
were applied in the previous account.
The terms and conditions for the new account  dated July 2015 (before Mr O transferred his 
positions to the new account)  are sufficiently clear. As the adjudicator noted, its provisions 
set out the existence of holding costs (for CFD margin trades), defined them as being 
calculated on opening price values and illustrated the calculation to add clarity. Even more 
clarity was provided in CMCs Cost Disclosure terms document of 2019, which dedicated an 
entire section to holding costs and conveyed the same message. On these grounds, and in 
the absence of evidence showing a contrary calculation, I accept that holding costs were, 
from 2015, to be calculated on opening price values of margined positions in an account.
I appreciate that Mr O claims not to have been given specific notice in this respect and it is 
possible that the terms for holding costs, in particular, were not verbally highlighted to him in 
the course of his correspondence with CMC during the opening of the new account or during 
the transfer of his positions. For the sake of fairness, it is equally possible that they were. 
There is insufficient evidence to determine this. In any case, I am persuaded that he would 
have agreed  and would have been required to agree  the terms for the new account in 
order to have been granted the new account. As stated above, those terms provided 
information about the calculation of holding charges on opening price values. 
The link Mr O was sent at the time he was enquiring into the new account appears to have 
been, in the main, a CFD educational resource. I would not expect information about new 
account terms and conditions to have been accessible from that. Those terms and 
conditions would have been accessible to, and agreed by, Mr O in the course of his 
application for the new account (or transfer to the new account).
I note that Mr O has referred to notice this year, from CMC, which appears to reverse its 
approach for calculating holding costs. The notice said that from 6 July they will be 
calculated on the basis of daily price values. I am not persuaded that this adds weight to Mr Os complaint. He was allowed to mitigate his 
position when he closed the relevant trades and reopened them on prices which reduced the 
holding costs he would incur. At that point, and by reopening the trades, he essentially 
accepted the calculation of holding costs on opening price values. If, as it appears, CMC has 
since changed its approach to calculating holding costs on daily price values and has given 
prior notice of the change, that would be a matter for its reasonable commercial discretion. It 
does not establish inconsistency, instead it amounts to a change of commercial practice.
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that holding costs were wrongly applied to Mr Os 
position.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman