DRN-4050547
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about a Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) Insurance policy where
Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG (Helvetia) are the
underwriters of the policy. She says when she made a claim under the policy, she received
less in settlement than she was expecting.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case, because I intended to come to a 
different outcome to the Investigator  because of this, I wanted to give both parties the 
opportunity to respond before I came to my final decision on the matter. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which forms part of this final decision. 
On 25 January 2022, unfortunately, Mrs Ys car was stolen and not recovered. She made a
claim under her car insurance policy, and her car insurers settled her claim for £14,000,
which it said was the market value of the car at the time of loss.
Mrs Y then made a claim on her GAP Insurance policy. Mrs Y says she took out a Return to
Value policy and she says she told Helvetia that her car was worth £20,000 when she took
out the cover. But Helvetia valued her car at £14,501 at the time of taking out the cover. Mrs
Y says the valuation should have been discussed with her at the time of taking out the policy
because this is significantly less than what she told it the car was worth. Essentially, she
doesnt think Helvetias valuation of her car is correct.
Mrs Y thinks that Helvetia should pay her an additional £5,500  as she is out of pocket by
this much due to the valuation. Shes also said shes suffered stress and anxiety as a result
of whats happened.
Helvetia responded to Mrs Ys complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They explained that it had
paid the difference between the settlement from the car insurer, and the cars valuation when
the policy was taken out. So, it thought it had acted fairly.
Mrs Y didnt agree. She feels that Helvetia should have paid her the difference between what
the car insurer settled the claim for, and the £20,000 she valued her car at.
The Investigator also looked into Mrs Ys complaint. They found that the type of policy Mrs Y
had taken out was a Return to Value, which mean that Helvetia needed to pay the difference
between the market value of the car at the time of loss, and the market value of the car when
Mrs Y took out the policy. The Investigator saw evidence to satisfy themselves that
Helvetias valuation of £14,501 was a fair one, and so they thought Helvetia had acted in line
with the terms of the policy  and they didnt think Helvetia needed to do more to put things
right for Mrs Y.
Mrs Y didnt agree with the Investigators view. In summary, she made the following points:
Her car was a special edition model  and shed had the car valued herself prior to 
taking out the cover. This valuation was for £20,000.
The new car quote from 2019 shows the value of the car is in the region of £23,000. 
So, its not plausible that a short while later her car could be valued at £14,500.
She says she was told over the phone that her GAP insurance covered the difference 
between the new value and the current value  which is why she took the cover out.
Helvetia should have let her know if her car valuation at inception was going to be 
much lower than the £20,000 valuation she provided when she took the cover out.
Because Mrs Y didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on
the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I intend to uphold Mrs Ys complaint in part. I
appreciate this decision will still likely come as a disappointment to Mrs Y, but Ill explain my
reasons for this below.
Having looked at the sales process Mrs Y went through when she purchased the GAP
Insurance online, I can see that after she answered questions about her car, she was given
the option of taking out a Return to Value (RTV) policy. Mrs Y chose to continue on this
basis  as confirmed in the Schedule of Cover that was sent to her after the purchase.
The policy documents state that: If during the period of insurance your insured vehicle is
subject to a total loss claim and is written off by your comprehensive motor insurer, subject
to the terms and conditions of the policy, we will pay you the difference between: RTV: the
motor insurance settlement paid by your motor insurer and the insured value at the start
date.
Insured value is defined, in the policy document, as: the lower of the Price Guide retail value
for a vehicle of the same make, model and specification level, age, mileage and overall
condition at the start date (or an equivalent published value if the Price Guide retail value is
no longer available).
Essentially, what this means is that Helvetia, in the event of a claim, would pay the
difference between the settlement figure provided by the car insurer and the price guide
retail value of the car at the start date of the policy, this is often also known as the market
value.
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mrs Ys car at the time of policy
inception. Its probably worth noting here that the motor guides both Helvetia and this service
check are for valuing used vehicles (which Mrs Ys vehicle was at inception of the policy).
Generally, we find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research of likely sales figures. The guides also take into
account regional variations as well as the cars make, model and other specifications (like
special edition models). So, we generally find them to be more reliable than other resources
such as adverts.
Having checked the guides, I can see that Helvetia used the guide which produced the
highest value for Mrs Ys car, which was £14,501. While I appreciate this isnt the amountMrs Y was expecting, and she thought shed get more, I think Helvetia have been fair in its
valuation and providing Mrs Y with the upper valuation.
I have seen that Mrs Y told Helvetia on the application that her cars valuation was £20,000.
Mrs Y says she had her own valuation done prior to taking out the cover which confirmed
this valuation, but I havent seen any evidence to support this valuation.
Mrs Y has also sent this service a copy of the invoice from when she purchased the car. But
the invoice isnt a valuation, its the amount she paid for the car. I cant reasonably say that
because Mrs Y purchased her car for a higher price some months prior to taking out the
cover, means that the valuation Helvetia placed on the car was wrong.
I can understand from Mrs Ys point of view that her car couldnt have gone down in value so
much over such a short period of time. And Im afraid that this isnt something I can really
comment on. My role is to check the valuation Helvetia placed on the car at the time of
taking out the cover  and for the reasons Ive already explained, I think it has done this
fairly.
What I have seen though is that Mrs Y bought the car for £18,454.94. I know the total on the
invoice she has provided us with is more than this, however, much of the other charges on
the invoice arent for the car itself. So even if Mrs Y had taken out a policy that covered her
to the cost of car from the invoice, any policy would only likely pay out a maximum she paid
for the car itself, and not for the other charges on the invoice.
Mrs Y thinks that Helvetia should have told her that the valuation at inception was less than
the £20,000 shed valued it at. But it was up to Mrs Y to give Helvetia an accurate valuation
 this is explained during the online application. However, I do think that Helvetia could have
made it clearer to Mrs Y during the application the consequences of not placing an accurate
valuation on the car. But even if it had explained the consequences, the valuation of the car
wouldnt have changed. What I mean by this is Helvetia would have always paid up to the
market value of the car at the time she took out the cover.
With this in mind though, I do think its possible Mrs Y has paid more in premium than she
should have. Helvetia charged her a premium on the basis of the cars value being £20,000.
But in reality, it would have only paid the market value of the car which we now understand
is less than this at £14,501. Had it been made clear to Mrs Y the consequences of not
inputting an accurate valuation into the application, I think its likely she would have provided
a more accurate valuation, and subsequently probably paid less premium for the cover. So, I
currently think Helvetia needs to refund Mrs Y the difference in the premium she would have
paid.
I have also taken on board Mrs Ys comments in that she contacted Helvetia during the
application process to confirm the type of cover she had taken out. She says she was told on
the phone that she would be covered for a £20,000 valuation. I have asked Helvetia for a
copy of this call. It responded to show me the contact it had with Mrs Y since July 2021 (prior
to taking out the policy)  but the only calls it had a record of were those that took place 
around the time of the claim in 2022. So unfortunately, its difficult for me to know what Mrs Y
was told over the phone.
But I have seen that during the online sales process, and the documents available to Mrs Y
after the sale, all explained that the car would be covered up to the market valuation of the
car at inception of the policy. I think what has happened here is that there seems to be some
confusion with how Helvetia would determine this valuation  Mrs Y thought this would be
what she told it on the application form, and Helvetia explained that this would be done on
price guides. So, Mrs Y has suffered a loss of expectation as to how much she thought shewas likely to get in the event of a claim, but I dont find that Helvetia are to blame for this loss
of expectation.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs Y was hoping for. And I really am sorry to have
disappointed her. But having taken everything Ive read and been told into account; I cant
currently find that Helvetia have treated Mrs Y unfairly in terms of the valuation. However, I
will likely be asking Helvetia to refund the extra premium she paid as a result of insuring a
car with a valuation of £20,000, when the premium charged should have been at a valuation
of £14,501. Helvetia should also pay Mrs Y 8% simple interest on this refund from the date
Mrs Y purchased the policy, until it repays it to her.
In response to this decision, I ask Helvetia to provide evidence to show me what premium it
would have charged Mrs Y if shed provided the correct market valuation of £14,501 at
application stage. The premium charged should be based on what it would have charged in
August 2020 (inception of the policy).
Both parties have now responded to the provisional decision. 
Helvetia has provided me with evidence to show what the policy would have cost if it had 
covered Mrs Y up to £14,500. 
Mrs Y responded to say she was disappointed with the outcome. She said that she couldnt 
understand why her car was valued at £14,000 at the time of theft, and Helvetia said it was 
worth only around £500 more two years previous when she took out the cover. Mrs Y says 
she has now been left without a car as the settlement paid off the finance. Shes also said 
that the actions of Helvetia have made her mentally unwell.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what both parties have said since my provisional decision, I have decided 
to partially uphold Mrs Ys complaint for much of the same reasons as stated in my 
provisional decision. 
Im sorry to have disappointed Mrs Y - I can understand why she feels this way. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I have reviewed the motor valuation guides, and I can 
see Helvetia offered Mrs Y a fair valuation for her car at inception of the policy. And I havent 
seen any evidence that puts the valuation from the guides into question. So, I think Helvetia 
has fairly relied on the guides when valuing Mrs Ys vehicle. Im sorry that Mrs Y says she is 
now out of pocket, and that the situation has made her unwell. But for the reasons Ive 
already explained, I dont think Helvetias valuation was unfair. 
I do still find that Mrs Y paid more in premium than she should have. Thats because I dont 
think it was made clear to Mrs Y at application stage what the consequences of not providing 
an accurate valuation would be. And had she provided an accurate valuation at inception 
then she would have paid less premium for the cover. So, Helvetia needs to put this right. 
Putting things right
Helvetia has provided this service with evidence to show that the premium it would have 
charged had Mrs Y entered a valuation of £14,501 would have been £123.11  and not the 
£139.32 she paid. So, Helvetia should put things right for Mrs Y being doing what Ive said below:
Reimburse Mrs Y the difference in premium, which is £16.21.
Pay Mrs Y 8% simple interest per annum on the difference from when Mrs Y 
purchased the policy, until it reimburses her. *
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Helvetia to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to above. Helvetia must give Mrs 
Y a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ys complaint in part. I order Helvetia 
Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG to put things right for Mrs Y 
by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman