DRN-3383952
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC have closed his account and wont allow him to 
access his funds.
What happened
Mr D is based overseas. Barclays sent him a letter dated 28 June 2021, to inform him that 
they would be closing his account with them on 27 August 2021. Mr D says he received the 
letter in August 2021 and he petitioned to keep his account open on 26 August 2021 and 
again the following day, but Barclays closed his account and transferred the money to a 
holding account in the Barclays Group. 
Mr D complained to Barclays and requested that they electronically transferred the money to 
an account in his name. He also offered to change his address for correspondence to a 
different overseas country. Barclays did not uphold his complaint. They said that they were 
no longer able to offer banking services in the country that Mr D was based in and they 
couldnt overturn the decision. They explained they couldnt change Mr Ds address to a 
country he wasnt permanently living. Barclays explained that one of their colleagues had 
attempted to speak to Mr D, but she was unable to, so she sent Mr D an email for him to 
contact Barclays and they provided the email address and referred him to his original letter if 
he would prefer to telephone them.
Mr D corresponded with Barclays a number of times over the following months. Barclays 
outlined to him what he needed to do for them to transfer him the funds, which included 
providing certified identification and completing forms, but Mr D offered to visit a branch of 
Barclays (or visit the premises of senior management) to show his passport and prove his 
identity, but Barclays reiterated their procedure in order for Mr D to obtain his money.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. He said that the notice of closure letter that 
Barclays sent him was not by registered means and was sent through the normal post and 
regular postal mail could take at least four weeks for it to arrive in his country, when it is sent 
from England. He explained that he had just received his March 2020 statement from 
Barclays on 15 February 2022 which showed it can take nearly two years to receive post 
from abroad, especially during a pandemic.  
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. He said that Barclays had given him 60 
days notice that they were going to close his account. He said that he could not hold 
Barclays responsible for any postal delays as this service would be provided by third party 
companies and this would be outside of their control.
Our investigator said that Barclays had sent Mr D an email on 26 August at 9:16am, (his 
local time) and he responded to them before his account was closed informing them that he 
would ring them the following morning. Our investigator explained that as Mr D was aware 
that they were going to close his account he could have transferred money out of his 
account before his account was closed, but he didnt do so, therefore his funds were 
transferred to a secure holding account on 27 August 2021.
Mr D asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In  
summary he said that Barclays can be held responsible for how they send time sensitive 
mail, he would be travelling to the UK shortly so all that should be required is for him to 
identify himself to branch staff with his passport in order for them to transfer his money. He 
said that our service should find this fair and reasonable because his presence in the branch 
with his passport would be the ultimate security measure and would prevent unauthorised 
individuals from accessing his money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of points to this service and Barclays and Ive considered and read 
everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id also like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer 
for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr D from the outset that Im unable to tell Barclays how to manage their procedures 
when they make a commercial decision to close an account down.
It is not the role of this service to instruct a business how they should communicate with their 
customers or how they operate their identification requirements in order to release money 
from a holding account back to Mr D, as these are business decisions for Barclays. So I 
cant ask them to verify Mr D by just his passport in a branch of theirs (or with a senior 
employee such as Mr D has asked to meet with previously) when this is not their standard 
procedure to verify a customer when an overseas account has been closed. I also cant ask 
them to send mail by couriers or secure mail, or even to indicate on the envelope that urgent 
action may be required. Only the regulator can make Barclays change the way they act in 
this regard.
Barclays gave Mr D 60 days notice that they were closing his account. Ive considered what 
Mr D has said about how they provided this notice, that it wasnt sent by registered post as 
this was sent through the normal post. Ive also read what hes said about a recent 
statement taking nearly two years for him to receive this. But I wouldnt expect Barclays to 
be aware of the timescales it would take for mail to be received in each country they send 
mail to and although Mr D has said how they send post is in their control, Im satisfied that 
when Mr D receives mail or reads his mail is out of their control. I say this as they rely on 
third parties to deliver mail to their customers. They have explained to Mr D that their 
procedure is not to use couriers or secured post.
Mr D has told us that mail would take at least four weeks to arrive from England. Here, 
despite the time it took a statement to get to him, he has told us that he did receive the 
notice letter before the closure date. So Im satisfied that Mr D would have been able to act 
and move his funds to a different account he held before the date of the closure, even if he 
did not have a lot of time to act upon this as he would have liked  as he told us he received 
their letter in August, so he should have been able to transfer the funds out of the account 
before it closed on 27 August 2021.
Mr D communicated with Barclays on 26 August 2021, so Im satisfied that he had time to 
move the funds before Barclays closed the account. But he petitioned to have the account 
stay open instead. So I cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr D not acting upon the letter he 
received  regardless of how long before the deadline he had received it, when Barclays were clear on the letter that his account would close on 27 August 2021. The letter said it is 
important that you contact us to transfer any funds out of your account by this date. But Mr 
D did not do so even though he told us he received the letter prior to this date.
Although Mr D petitioned for his account to stay open, this was not agreed to by Barclays  
and they are not required to agree for an account to stay open, so I cant say Barclays acted 
unfairly for doing this.
Barclays have been clear how Mr D can access his funds. Ive noted the strength of his 
feelings that he should be able to go into a branch with his passport and they should be able 
to give him his money and we should find this to be fair and reasonable, but Barclays have 
set out what documents are required and what forms need to be completed. But Mr D has 
not met this requirement yet and as Ive previously mentioned, I cant order Barclays to 
change their identification procedures. 
As Mr D is willing to visit a Barclays branch when hes in the UK with identification, then it 
may be prudent for him to bring the requested identification to the branch and ask a Barclays 
member of staff if they can assist him with the forms Barclays require in order to release his 
money. This way, he would have the peace of mind that he could regain access of his 
money in a timely manner, especially since the account was closed almost a year ago and to 
ensure that all of the requirements have been met. Or he could contact Barclays on the 
details that theyve already gave him to see how he can meet their requirements, if he is 
unable to travel to the UK. But it follows I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman