DRN-3316302
The complaint
Miss D and Mr N complain that U K Insurance (UKI) trading as Direct Line unfairly declined 
their legal expenses claim. 
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Miss D has a motor insurance policy which includes legal expenses insurance (LEI) 
cover underwritten by UKI. 
Mr N is a named driver on the motor insurance policy and wanted to use LEI cover to 
pursue a claim for breach of contract against the dealership and manufacturer of the 
insured vehicle. 
UKI has said the claim isnt valid because the policy doesnt cover motor contract 
disputes. 
Mr N disagreed. He said UKIs website says cover is provided for pursuing a breach 
of contract claim when buying or selling a car.
UKI pointed to its website which says: remember, if you already have car insurance 
cover with us, the wording of your policy may differ from the one youll find here.  It 
said as Miss Ds policy started in 2019, the latest policy on its website doesnt apply. 
UKI added that even if it did, there would still be no cover because the contract was 
entered in 2015, which was before the motor legal cover started and the policy 
doesnt cover events which pre-date the policys inception.
UKI addressed Mr Ns concerns about how it had handled his complaint about the 
service itd provided. UKI was satisfied it had been handled appropriately and that it 
hasnt prejudiced Mr Ns position to pursue legal action. 
Mr N remained unhappy and brought a complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked at it and thought UKI had fairly declined the claim. He explained that the 
separate issue raised about UKIs handling of Mr Ns complaint to UKI wasnt 
something we could look at, as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. 
Mr N remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken in to account the requirements set by the Regulator, which include that 
insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a claim. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy document. The relevant policy document is the one which 
applied at the time the policy was taken out. Ive looked at this and in respect of motor legal 
protection cover, section H says:
[] This cover can be used to claim your uninsured losses if you and your car are 
involved in a road traffic accident with a moving vehicle, as defined by the Road 
Traffic Act, where someone else is to blame. 
We will pay the costs to help you claim your insured losses from the person who was 
to blame for the accident. 
Included in this section are examples of uninsured losses which may be claimed for. Having 
looked at this, I note claims regarding contract disputes does not feature. So, Im satisfied 
UKI acted fairly when it declined Miss D and Mr Ns claim on the basis that the claim wasnt 
covered. 
For completeness, Ive considered Mr Ns point that as a later policy document on UKIs 
website includes cover for contract disputes, the claim should be covered. I dont agree, and 
Ill explain why. First, when visiting the website, the wording makes it clear that if the insured 
already has car insurance cover, their policy wording may differ to the latest version on UKIs 
website. So, Im satisfied Miss D and Mr N knew they needed to refer to their specific policy 
document.
Second, even if disputes about contracts were covered, the claim wouldnt be valid because 
both the policy document from the time of sale, and the latest version on UKIs website 
states that it doesnt cover incidents which began before the cover started. This is a typical 
term of policies of this nature.
Mr N has said issues arose within the policy term, but Im not persuaded by this argument. I 
say this because the vehicle was purchased in 2015 and Mr N has said issues with it arose 
in 2017.  Whilst I accept there might have been ongoing issues which occurred during the 
policy term  I note his reference to the Limitation Act and his concern that information 
hadnt been disclosed to him - whats key is whether the incident which has given rise to the 
claim can be traced back to an earlier date. From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied it can 
be and so there isnt a valid claim. 
I have also considered Miss D and Mr Ns concerns about UKIs handling of their complaint. 
But as our investigator has outlined previously, this isnt something I have the power to 
consider. Thats because the complaint handling issue in this case is separate to Mr Ns 
complaint about the fairness or otherwise of UKIs decision to reject the claim. As such, its 
not a regulated activity and so isnt something I can consider within our rules. So, I wont 
comment on it any further.
I know my decision will disappoint Miss D and Mr N, but I hope for the reasons set out above 
they understand why I havent upheld it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman