DRN-4340340
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited should pay her claim on her 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a luxury sports utility vehicle, first 
registered in 2020.
Mrs H had acquired the vehicle on a finance agreement by March 2022 (the date of its most 
recent registration document V5.)
Mrs H went online in mid-July 2022 and took out insurance for the vehicle. Mrs H said the 
vehicle was worth over £90.000.00.
The policy was in the name of an insurance intermediary. Mulsanne was the insurance 
company that was responsible for dealing with any claim. 
In mid-December 2022, Mrs H reported that someone had stolen the vehicle.
Much of the complaint is about acts, omissions and communications by claims-handlers on 
behalf of Mulsanne. Insofar as I hold Mulsanne responsible for them, I may refer to them as 
acts, omissions and communications by Mulsanne.
In early February 2023, Mulsanne declined the claim on the grounds that the vehicle hadnt 
been fitted with a tracking device.
In mid-February 2023, Mrs H (through a solicitor) complained to Mulsanne that it should 
meet the claim.
By a final response dated mid-April 2023, Mulsanne turned down the complaint.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us in mid-May 2023.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Mulsanne had treated Mrs H unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining the claim.  
The investigator said the requirement for a tracking device had been made clear to Mrs H.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mulsanne has been responsible for some conflicting information.
Nevertheless, the vehicle was of higher value and at higher risk of theft than most other 
vehicles. I accept Mulsannes statement that it wouldnt have insured Mrs Hs vehicle against 
theft without a requirement for a tracking device. 
I accept that Mrs H couldnt have taken out the policy without first seeing and agreeing the 
following:
Youll only be covered for theft and attempted theft claims if you have a tracking 
device
So Im satisfied that Mulsanne made it clear enough to Mrs H when she took out the policy 
that it wouldnt cover theft of her vehicle if it didnt have a tracking device. 
In addition, after shed taken out the policy, Mulsanne produced a policy schedule and a 
statement of fact document. It included the following:
Statement of fact
 It's important that the information below is correct and complete to the best of your 
knowledge and belief. If not, your premium may be changed, your claim may not be 
fully paid or we may have to void your policy.
If any of the information is incorrect, you must contact us immediately.

Do any special conditions apply to my policy? 
Yes. Because of your circumstances, there are some additional conditions applied to 
your policy.
For more details on each endorsement, please see your policy handbook
 
Vehicle Security - Tracker 
Youll only be covered for theft and attempted theft claims if you have a tracking 
device. 
Subscriptions relevant to the tracker must be continuously active at the time of loss.
Mulsanne sent a welcome email to Mrs H asking her to check the schedule.
Ive been satisfied that Mulsanne made it clear enough to Mrs H when she took out the 
policy that it wouldnt cover theft of her vehicle if it didnt have a tracking device. Mrs Hs 
vehicle didnt have a tracking device. 
So, whilst I dont under-estimate Mrs Hs loss, I dont consider that Mulsanne treated her 
unfairly by declining her claim. 
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Mulsanne to pay the claim or to do any more in 
response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman