DRN-3577620
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds (Assurants) handling of 
a claim she made under her mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M made a claim to Assurant for water damage to her phone  IMEI ending 7308.
Assurant accepted the claim and instructed a courier service to collect the damaged phone 
and deliver a replacement phone.
Assurant subsequently contacted Mrs M to advise that the phone they received wasnt the 
phone insured under the policy, nor the same brand of phone as Mrs Ms. They sent her a 
collection bag and asked that she return the correct phone. Assurant said it would place a 
block on the replacement it provided if it didnt receive the correct phone.
Mrs M says that the correct phone was provided to the courier by her son. She says the 
courier could have swapped out or misplaced the phone.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ms complaint, but he didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said Assurant had provided evidence that it hadnt received the correct phone 
(IMEI ending 7308) and that instead it received a phone of a completely different brand (IMEI 
ending 7414). He said Assurant had advised that items collected by the courier were placed 
in locked tote boxes and so were unable to be tampered with. Based on the evidence, he 
wasnt persuaded the correct phone had been returned, so he didnt think Assurant had 
treated Mrs M unfairly.
Mrs M didnt accept our investigators opinion. So as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I consider is more likely based on the 
evidence which is available.
Mrs M says that her son definitely provided the correct phone to the courier. But beyond her 
testimony here, Ive not been provided with any additional supporting evidence to show that 
this was the case. And Im also mindful that Mrs Ms testimony isnt first-hand, as she wasnt 
present when the courier attended.
Assurant have provided screenshots of its delivery centre system showing that the correct 
phone hasnt been logged as received by them. It has provided photos of the phone it 
received, which is clearly not the correct phone. And it has provided the courier services 
delivery logs and photos. This includes a photo of the package it delivered, but there is no 
photo of the phone collected  as Mrs M suggests was taken.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ms assertion that the courier is at fault here. While I accept 
this could be a possibility, Im also mindful of the explanations provided by Assurant. It says 
the courier wouldnt have known what they were delivering or collecting  which I think calls 
into question the likelihood that they would have been in a position to swap out Mrs Ms 
phone for the one which was received by Assurant. And it also says the courier would have 
placed the collected package in a locked tote box which could only be opened when it was 
delivered to Assurant.
I accept Mrs Ms point that its impossible to prove whether the phone was locked in the box 
as it was supposed to be. But taking everything into account Im not persuaded that Mrs Ms 
version of events is most likely what happened. I think its more likely, on balance, that if the 
correct phone had been given to the courier, it would have been received by Assurant. But 
Im satisfied that Assurant didnt receive Mrs Ms phone.
Mrs Ms policy only provides cover in the event of loss, theft, damage or breakdown. This 
claim was for damage. The policy further explains that in the event of a successful claim for 
damage, the damaged phone becomes Assurants property. So, I think its reasonable that 
Assurant would want to receive the damaged phone, both because its entitled to, and to 
validate that there had actually been a valid claim in the first place.
Because Im persuaded that Assurant hasnt received the correct phone, I dont consider its 
decision to place a block on the replacement phone it provided to be unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Assurant 
General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman