DRN-2976974
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund £2,500 that they 
lost when they were the victims of a scam.  
What happened
What Mr M says
Mr and Mrs M have a joint account. Mr M received a call from someone who said they were 
from Santander. He says he was called from the Santander number on the back of his card. 
Mr M was told that someone had gained access to his bank details and passwords and that 
he needed to transfer his funds to a new account. Mr M says he was unsure, so he 
terminated the call and called the same number back. The original caller answered his call 
and told Mr M his funds were at risk. On 20 February 2019 Mr M transferred £2,500 from his 
joint account with Mrs M to the account details provided to him. Mr M was told hed receive a 
call back once the account had been set up for him, but this didnt happen so he became 
concerned and contacted Santander. At this point Mr M was told that Santander would not 
ask him to transfer funds and he realised he was the victim of a scam. 
Mr M thinks Santander should refund him the amount he transferred to the scammer 
because funds were taken under false pretences and Santander should have protected him. 
What Santander say
Santander hasnt provided Mr and Mrs M with a refund. It says Mr M logged in to his account 
from his usual IP address and passed the online security process. He chose the payment 
reason Anything else and was provided with a relevant warning concerning safe account 
scams. Santander also said it has followed the correct process to try to recover Mr and Mrs 
Ms funds, but the receiving bank advised that none remained. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator didnt think Santander should provide Mr and Mrs M with a refund. She said 
Mr M authorised the transaction and noted it wasnt unusual or uncharacteristic given Mr and 
Mrs Ms previous account and payment history. 
Mr M didnt accept what the investigator said. He noted that he responded quickly and 
instinctively when he received the call from the scammer. Mr M said he didnt feel hed acted 
with gross negligence, particularly given the increasing sophistication of scams that 
Santander had much more knowledge of than him. Mr M referred to BSI  PAS 17271: 2017 
and noted, 
The PAS aims to help financial institutions protect customers from financial harm, by 
identifying good practices in systems and procedures to prevent and detect fraud and 
financial abuse, recognizing customers who might be susceptible to risk, and advising on the 
best way to respond to certain situations. It establishes that, as a general principle, the 
organization should deliver a service that: 3.1(b) takes a proactive approach to minimize 
risks, impact and incidences of financial harm.
Mr M said that at the time he made the payment he was particularly vulnerable due to 
personal circumstances and was inexperienced in the finance sector  making him a target 
for this type of scam. Santander was aware of this risk and failed to protect him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice (including the BSI code referred to by Mr M in his 
response to the investigators opinion) and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs M have had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept Mr and Mrs 
M have been the victims of a cruel scam. What I need to decide is whether Santander did 
enough to protect him from the loss he suffered and what, if anything, ought to be done to 
put things right. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Santander need do anything further. I 
understand that Im delivering a very difficult message and Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs M 
that Ive carefully considered their complaint before reaching this decision. 
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably when it made the payment?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice (and taking in to 
account the code Mr M referred to in his response to the investigator) Santander should 
have been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So, Ive first 
considered whether the payment request Mr M made was unusual or uncharacteristic.
Having considered Mr and Mrs Ms payments for the 12-month period before the transaction 
I dont consider it was. I say this because:
- Mr and Mrs M had made significantly greater payments previously. They made 
cheque payments of £4,695 and £15,000 in October and November 2018 and card 
payments of £2,000 and around £1,000 in January 2019. Direct debit payments also 
left the account, including a payment for just over £9,000 a couple of days before the scam payment. In the circumstances, a payment of £2,500 would not stand out as 
unusual or suspicious.
- Mr and Mrs M had previously made faster payments from their joint account, so the 
method of payment also wasnt unusual. In March 2018 they made two faster 
payments, each one for a little over £1,000.
- The payment didnt clear Mr and Mrs Ms account of funds. After the £2,500 payment 
they were left with a balance of £186.99. If the account had been cleared and there 
were other indications of potential fraud Id have expected Santander to take further 
action - but this wasnt the case. 
So I dont consider I can fairly conclude that Santander should have flagged Mr and Mrs Ms 
payment as suspicious.  
Id like to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that Im not asking Santander to refund the £2,500 
they lost because I consider Santander acted reasonably in not identifying the payment as 
potentially fraudulent  and not because of Mr Ms own actions. So Im not saying Mr M 
acted negligently, whether grossly or otherwise, but simply that I dont consider there was 
enough to lead Santander to believe Mr and Mrs M might be the victims of fraud and to 
prompt it to ask them questions about the reason for the payment. Theres a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent  and then 
responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate 
payments. If payments like the one Mr M made, which are not unusual or uncharacteristic, 
are all flagged many legitimate payments wouldnt be made efficiently. 
Recovery of funds
Im satisfied that Santander did what it could to try to recover the money from the receiving
bank. After Mr M contacted Santander with concerns about the payment, Santander 
contacted the receiving bank promptly but unfortunately the payment could not be 
recovered. I cant hold Santander responsible for this. I appreciate that Mr M called 
Santander to report the scam on the same day the funds were transferred but Im afraid 
fraudsters usually remove funds very quickly and this is what appears to have happened 
here. The payment was made at 21.31 on 20 February 2019 and Santander contacted the 
bank that received the funds at 22.49 that same day. On 20 March 2019 the receiving bank 
confirmed that no funds remained. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman