DRN-3180412
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund payments which were made 
as the result of a scam.
Although the loss came from a joint account, for ease of reading and as hes done most of 
the correspondence, Ill mainly only refer to Mr M.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr M says he received unsolicited contact from someone claiming to represent an 
investment firm called S. The caller, who Ill refer to as Ms A promised high returns with 
zero to low risk and reassured him that he could withdraw his funds at any time. Ms A told 
Mr M that she would open a trading account for him and would trade on his behalf. She 
came across as professional and trustworthy, so Mr M gave her access to his computer to 
be shown how to trade. He also shared his card details to fund the investment. Mr M could 
see his trading account balance growing  reaching over £40,000. When he made a request 
to withdraw his funds, Ms A informed him a withdrawal could not be authorised unless more 
money was invested.      
Ultimately, between February 2019 and April 2019 eight payments totalling around £16,000 
(inclusive of transaction fees) were made using Mr Ms Visa debit cards  to two merchants 
M and T.
In June 2019, Mr M visited a HSBC branch to make a further payment as directed by Ms A. 
The branch staff had concerns that Mr M may have fallen victim to a scam, because when 
questioned he said he needed to pay this further amount to be able to withdraw funds from 
his trading account. They refused to make the payment and contacted the Police in line with 
the UK Banking Protocol Initiative. 
The following day Mr M asked HSBC to assist him with recovering the money hed lost. The 
case was referred to HSBCs Specialist Investigations Team. Mr M told them that hed not 
made the payments. Whilst he confirmed that hed shared details of both his cards with 
Ms A, he said she took the money from his account leaving him overdrawn. As Mr M was 
alleging the payments were unauthorised this was investigated by HSBCs Fraud Team not 
their Disputes Team (who often handle whether there are any recovery options through other 
means such as chargeback). The Fraud Team concluded that Mr M had authorised the 
transactions and is therefore liable for them. It didnt agree to a refund. 
Mr M complained. He remained unhappy with the outcome. He said branch staff had told 
him he would receive a refund. He also wanted HSBC to investigate S and for the criminals 
to be caught as it would stop this from happening to other innocent people. He felt that 
HSBC had a duty to identify and prevent fraudulent activity, and that it was not doing enough 
to stop these types of scams from taking place.
HSBC sympathised with the situation Mr M found himself in but maintained the claim 
outcome was correct and that it would not be providing a refund. It also explained, its role is 
not to investigate S or identify the individuals who commit this type of fraud  its simply to 
decide who is liable for the disputed transactions. It provided assurances that its fraud 
detection system is updated regularly to mirror fraud trends. It provided general investment 
scam warnings and confirmed that it will fully co-operate with any Police or Action Fraud 
investigation.     
The matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators considered the complaint 
but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. She thought as there were no reasonable 
prospects of success under Visas chargeback scheme HSBC choosing not to raise 
chargeback claims was neither an unfair nor unreasonable exercise of its discretion. 
However, she did think that one of the eight payments made, which was over £5,000 was 
sufficiently unusual for Mr M and his account that it should have prompted some sort of 
intervention from HSBC. But she didnt think this would have resulted in Mr M changing his 
mind about making further payments. In summary she concluded looking at the evidence 
available to HSBC at the time, that she didnt think it couldve reasonably prevented Mr Ms 
losses. As he disagreed, Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr M has faced in recent years  its clear hes had 
a far from easy time and has lost a considerable sum of money through scams. So I do 
understand why he wants to do all he can to recover the money he has lost here and why he 
would like a full fraud investigation to be carried out into S. He naturally wants those 
responsible to be caught and prosecuted. But I think it would be helpful if I start by explaining 
that the Financial Ombudsman Service considers complaints about the actions of financial 
services businesses  we cant look into complaints about the actions of other third parties. 
We also cannot investigate criminal matters. The Police are the right authority to investigate 
the actions of the criminals. And whilst I appreciate and have noted Mr Ms concerns about 
the lack of interest or support from other organisations he has contacted for help, I must be 
clear that all I can consider and decide here is whether HSBC has acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances.
  
I too acknowledge Mr Ms general concerns about banking systems and processes not being 
fit for purpose; enabling criminal activities and not doing enough to support and protect 
victims. But whether or not the regulations and rules are sufficient is ultimately a matter for 
the financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and is not something I can 
comment on. The Financial Ombudsman Service has no powers to fine or punish 
businesses or tell them to change their processes.
Authorisation 
Mr M alleges that he didnt consent to all the payments and Ms A took money out of his 
account without his consent. The regulations that are relevant here are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These say that a payment transaction is 
regarded as authorised by the payer if it was made using the legitimate security credentials 
provided by the payment service provider (here HSBC) and if the payer gave consent to the 
execution of the payment transaction. 
Having considered all the evidence and information available I think, on balance, its most 
likely that Mr M did consent to the payments he disputes. I say this for the following reasons:The disputed transactions were made on two different debit cards. 
- Four payments were made, across February 2019 and March 2019, to M using debit 
card 1. 
- The subsequent four payments were made in April 2019, to T using debit card 2. 
Ive addressed each debit card separately for ease. 
Payments to M made with debit card 1
- Mr M told HSBC when he was first contacted by Ms A, he shared his debit card 
details and agreed for payments to be taken to fund his trading account. He also told 
our Investigator he trusted Ms A and shared his card details as she told him shed be 
opening his trading account for him and would be trading on his behalf. 
 
- Funds were transferred into Mr Ms HSBC account from an account he holds with 
another bank before payments for corresponding amounts were made to M.
- Whilst Mr M says he only became aware payments had been taken from his account 
when his account became overdrawn (this wasnt until the final disputed payment 
made to T, with debit card 2). HSBC has provided our service with Mr Ms online 
banking login details. I can see he generally logged into his online banking a couple 
of times a month, so Im satisfied he wouldve been aware of the payments leaving 
his account and the associated transaction fees. 
 
- Mr M says he cancelled his debit card when he couldnt withdraw his funds from his 
trading account. He didnt want any further payments to be taken. I think, its fair to 
say at this point had any payments been taken from Mr Ms account without his 
consent I wouldve expected him to have raised it with HSBC sooner. I cant see that 
he did.
- If the payments taken were unauthorised as Mr M alleges, given Ms A wouldnt have 
known that Mr M had cancelled his card nor what his account balance was I wouldve 
expected to see further attempts to obtain funds. However, HSBC has confirmed no 
other transactions were attempted after the card was cancelled.  
So taking all the above into consideration, on balance, Im satisfied Mr M consented to all 
payments to M.
Payments to T made with debit card 2
- Mr M told HSBC hed also shared his new debit card details with Ms A. When asked 
why he did this, Mr M said he agreed to invest more money because shed told him 
he wouldnt get back the money hed already invested unless he invested more. He 
was told that his trading account balance with S would be reduced by 15% if he didnt 
invest more money. 
 
- Again, funds were transferred from an account Mr M holds with another bank before 
payments were made to T. - I can see the day after Mr Ms account had become overdrawn, he transferred funds 
into the account to bring it back into credit. Around that time, hed also logged into his 
online banking several times. So Im persuaded Mr M was aware of the payments 
made to T and the associated fees. Had these payments been unauthorised and 
taken without Mr Ms consent as he alleges, Id have expected him to have raised 
this with HSBC at the time. But I cant see that he did. In fact, Mr M continued to try 
to make payments as instructed by Ms A. In June 2019 he visited a branch 
requesting to send further funds. And it wasnt until the branch staff intervened that 
Mr M became aware; he was being scammed.
- If Ms A was taking payments without Mr Ms consent, Id have expected to see 
further attempts albeit unsuccessful ones once there were no funds available in 
Mr Ms account. HSBC has confirmed no further transactions were attempted aside 
from those disputed, which amounted to roughly the amount credited to the account.         
So on balance Im satisfied Mr M consented to all the payments made to T.  
 
Of course, I can see why Mr M makes the argument that payments taken were not 
authorised by him and were taken without his consent. But the fact that the payments took 
him over his overdraft limit; were taken by a merchant with a different name to that Mr M 
believed he was dealing with or because he says he was unaware of the associated fees 
does not mean they were not authorised for the purposes of the PSRs. As Im satisfied, the 
payments were authenticated using Mr Ms legitimate security credentials and hed 
consented to the payments being taken (irrespective of where to and the amounts for). 
These payments must be regarded as authorised payments. Therefore, Mr M is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
To be clear, simply because Mr M has been the victim of a sophisticated scam doesnt 
entitle him to a refund. HSBCs only option to try to recover the funds was a chargeback 
which would be subject to the scheme rules. Or potentially if HSBC had failed in its duties, it 
might have refunded him in response to his complaint, to put things right.
 
Chargeback 
Our Investigator wrote a detailed view that explained the scheme rules in some detail. Both 
Mr M and HSBC have read the Investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only 
that which forms the basis of my decision. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. There is no right to a chargeback. It is for the regulated 
card issuer (here HSBC) to decide if it has a basis upon which it can raise a chargeback 
claim. HSBC are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Visa.
Taking everything into consideration I cant find that HSBCs decision at the time to not raise 
a chargeback was unfair or unreasonable. I say this for the following reasons: 
- Mr M reported the matter as fraud and said he had not authorised the payments to be 
taken from his account. HSBC followed the correct procedure treating the 
transactions as unauthorised and investigating the matter.
Following its investigation, HSBC was satisfied, most likely, Mr M authorised the 
transactions. It also didnt believe any chargeback rights existed. Ive reached the same outcome as HSBC and am satisfied these transactions were 
authorised, by that I mean correctly authenticated and consented to by Mr M. And it could be 
argued that the nature of Mr Ms claim is in fact that hes been scammed and what hed been 
promised was not provided. Ive thought about, as our Investigator has, taking into 
consideration Visas scheme rules, requirements and the acceptable causes (possible 
reason codes under which a dispute could be raised) in these circumstances, whether 
Mr Ms chargeback claims had a reasonable prospect of succeeding. And I dont think they 
did. Ill explain why.
- Mr M hasnt provided any acceptable evidence that would support chargeback claims 
to be made under Visas scheme rules.
- Time limitations placed on Visa reason code 12.7. Visa regulations say no more than 
75 calendar days can pass between the transaction processing date and the dispute 
processing date for these claims. Mr Ms claims were made too late for this reason 
code to apply.
- Mr Ms claim is that he has been scammed by S. I fully appreciate he thought he was 
dealing with a legitimate investment firm and believed the payments were made to 
them for bitcoin trading, the fact remains that the Visa debit card payments were 
made to M and T, not to S. From what Ive seen, M and T are both legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges. As far as I can see M and T did not defraud Mr M nor 
steal his money; nor put obstacles in the way of him withdrawing any funds. It seems 
to me that on the balance of probabilities M and T simply did what was asked of 
them: in return for Mr Ms payments, they exchanged and remitted an equivalent 
amount in bitcoin to the wallet address that they had been provided with. So for the 
purposes of chargeback it is most likely that respective claims wouldve been 
defended by M and T as they wouldve been able to evidence that they provided the 
service that theyd received payments for.    
So, for the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that HSBC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection with any rights or responsibilities under Visas chargeback 
scheme, so I cannot uphold this complaint on that ground.
Intervention 
HSBC does have a duty to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. So 
Ive thought about whether it couldve reasonably done anything more to prevent Mr Ms loss 
at the time the payments were processed. So I need to consider whether: HSBC ought to 
have intervened in any of the payments? And if so, whether that intervention would have 
made a difference?
I can see in June 2019 when Mr M visited a branch to make a payment HSBC did intervene. 
Branch staff were concerned that Mr M was a victim of fraud and so invoked the Banking 
Protocol  that meant that Mr M was spoken to by Police Officers. Ive listened to a call that 
took place between branch staff and the Fraud Team when Mr M returned to the branch the 
following day. The member of staff explains that despite Police involvement the day before, 
Mr M had returned to branch and still believed S were a genuine firm. Shed gathered further 
evidence to convince Mr M that hed likely fallen victim to a scam. Eventually Mr M accepted 
this, and a fraud claim was raised.      Before this intervention eight payments had been made using Mr Ms debit cards, so I have 
considered whether these ought to have triggered HSBCs systems such that it ought to 
have questioned whether he was a victim of a scam and intervened. Ive carefully 
considered the operation of Mr Ms account. The first payment was made in February 2019, 
to M for around £150. Im satisfied this wouldnt have triggered HSBCs systems. I also dont 
think that the second payment which was a month later in March 2019, also to M for around 
£1,800 was so unusual that it ought to have triggered an alert or given grounds for 
suspecting fraud. However, the same day there was another payment, to M for over £5,000 
and I think this was sufficiently unusual and uncharacteristic that HSBC ought to have 
intervened. 
So, Ive gone onto consider whether an earlier intervention by HSBC would have likely made 
any difference to the circumstances of the scam, and whether it wouldve ultimately 
prevented the loss from occurring. And having considered all the evidence, on balance, Im 
not satisfied it would have made any difference. I say this because whilst I wouldve 
expected HSBC to have given Mr M specific warnings about investment scams and advised 
him to carry out checks to satisfy himself of S legitimacy when he authorised the £5,000 
payment. Assuming Mr M did this, at the time S was a regulated firm and there was no 
adverse information reported on the FCAs website. Similarly, there werent any published 
warnings on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) and by his own admission Mr M trusted Ms A. With this in mind and 
given, Mr M still believed S were genuine even after a warning from Police and branch staff 
Im not persuaded any reasonable level of intervention by HSBC at this earlier stage would 
have resulted in him not going ahead with the payments. I note that a warning was later 
published on the FCAs and IOSCOs website in relation to S, but that didnt happen until 
July 2019. So it wouldnt have been available to view at the time of this conversation.  
Overall, whilst I think HSBC ought to have done more, Im not persuaded this would have 
ultimately made a difference and I think Mr M would have proceeded with the payments in 
any case.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr M being the victim of what was clearly a cruel scam 
that has had a significant impact on him and his family. But it would only be fair for me to 
direct HSBC to refund his loss if I thought they were responsible for the failure that caused it. 
And while Ive made it clear that HSBC ought to have acted sooner, Im not persuaded that 
they wouldve been able to prevent Mr Ms loss. So, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold them 
liable in these circumstances.
I also recognise Mr M feels HSBC has a duty to stop these criminals from carrying out such 
terrible crimes and is unhappy they arent doing more to help. But as he is the victim, it 
would be for Mr M to raise the matter with Action Fraud and Police  not HSBC. And Ive not 
seen anything that makes me think HSBC would not co-operate with the authorities should 
any criminal proceedings take place in the future.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, as I know he feels strongly about this matter. But in the 
circumstances, I will not be asking HSBC to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons above, despite my natural sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms loss, I dont uphold 
this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman