DRN-3414746
The complaint
Miss G, who is represented by her mother, Mrs G, complains that Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited terminated her hire purchase agreement unfairly.
What happened
In June 2020 Miss G acquired a second-hand car funded with a hire purchase
Agreement. It was six months old and had covered 3,116 miles. The car cost £16,765 and 
Miss G paid a deposit of £2,000. The hire purchase agreement required her to pay £279.48 
for each of the following 48 months plus an optional final payment of £5,310.
Miss G was affected by the pandemic and in January she asked for a three-month payment 
deferral. This was agreed and payments were due to recommence on 1 May 2021 at an 
increased rate of £304.63 per month. Miss G says that her original payment date was the 4th 
of the month and this was changed to the 1st without her knowledge. This caused some 
delays in payment being made as she hadnt the funds in the account to meet the payments.
Miss G was required to confirm her acceptance before the payment deferral went into effect, 
but she didnt do so. She paid the sum due on 1 May 2021 and called VWFS a few days 
later to request a further payment deferral. It responded in writing on 19 May 2021 to confirm 
agreement and told her the new monthly payments would be £333.73 from 1 September 
2021. VWFS put the 1 June payment on hold and asked Miss G to confirm her acceptance 
of the terms. Again she didnt confirm her acceptance. As she thought the monthly payments 
were too high.
VWFS emailed Miss G on 1 June 2021 to explain that, as the payment deferral hadnt been 
confirmed by her, it had been withdrawn. Payment was due immediately and she was asked 
to make a manual payment.  It also said she could re-apply for the payment deferral if it was 
still required.
On 29 June VWFS emailed Miss G offering a payment arrangement to repay the arrears 
over a 12-month period. It said that no contact would be assumed to mean Miss G was 
happy with this proposal and it was scheduled to start from 1 August 2021.
On 1 July 2021, VWFS was unable to take the monthly payment by direct debit which 
increased the arrears to £609.26. Miss G has said she expected payment to be taken on 4 
July 2021 and ensured funds were available for then; she said she was unaware the direct 
debit payment had failed.
On 20 July 2021, VWFS emailed Miss G to confirm a payment arrangement offer to
start 1 August 2021 which would repay the £609.26 arrears over a 12-month period which 
meant an additional £50.77 a month. This email stated, please respond.. if this is affordable 
and we will set the arrangement to pay up.  VWFS says it has no record of Miss G 
responding to this, so the payment arrangement wasnt set up.
The normal monthly direct debits were successfully taken on 1 August 2021 and 1 
September 2021. Contact records from VWFS show that reminder notices for the £609.26 
arrears were issued on 13 August 2021 and 3 September 2021.
VWFS was again unable to collect payment on 1 October 2021 and on 5 October 2021 they 
issued a default notice to Miss G. This said £913.89 was outstanding in arrears and gave a 
deadline of 24 October 2021 to repay the arrears or reach an agreement to pay them. The 
notice said failure to act by 24 October 2021 could result in terminating the agreement; 
recovering possession of the car plus any arrears or late payments and interest; and 
demanding earlier payment of all sums due under the agreement.
 On 29 October 2021, VWFS sent a further arrears text to Miss G. Its contact records show 
Miss G phoned them the same day and said the arrears were VWFS own fault, that shed 
previously been told she could pay £15 per month to clear the arrears.
 She was unable to reach a payment agreement with VWFS during this call and said shed 
call back. VWFS notes show they told her no arrangement to pay was in place, that the
default notice had been issued, and she was at risk of the agreement being terminated. 
Following the call, notes show they emailed Miss G an income and expenditure form to 
complete so it could explore an affordable amount to address the arrears.
Payment was taken successfully on 1 November 2021. VWFS issued a further arrears text 
asking Miss G to contact them on 12 November 2021. On 23 November 2021, VWFS 
terminated the agreement and asked a collections agent to arrange collection of the car.
On 26 November 2021 Miss G called VWFS and said she was unaware that the agreement 
had been terminated and believed an arrangement to pay was in place. She says she 
offered to pay off her arrears in full but was told the full balance needed to be cleared.
On 29 November 2021 Mrs G called as Miss Gs representative and said Miss G lived with 
dyslexia and hadnt understood the correspondence shed received. She also said that 
letters appeared to have been delayed in the post and there hadnt been sufficient time for 
Miss G to respond to them. She said that her daughter hadnt told her about the 
correspondence and so she hadnt been able to help. She also said that she had asked that 
her number be added to VWFS file but it said that it had no record of that request.
Miss G has told this service she was stranded abroad from 22 July 2021 until 25 September 
2021 because of the pandemic travel restrictions and was unaware of the arrears. Miss G 
says she gave VWFS her mothers contact details before she went on holiday. Shes also 
said she didnt receive the default letter issued on 5 October 2021 until the end of October 
2021  so after the deadline to respond - and believes it was unfair of VWFS to expect her to 
respond immediately.
VWFS rejected Miss Gs complaint. It said that it had made every effort to help Miss G, but 
she had not acted on various requests and in the end the agreement was terminated. Miss G 
brought her complaint to tis service where it was considered by one of our investigators. 
Miss G said that she didnt receive many emails from VWFS and some went into her junk 
folder. She also said that letters sent by VWFS arrived late e.g. a letter issued 5 October 
didnt arrive until late October. She also said that she didnt fully understand the income and 
expenditure form she had been sent so she didnt return it.
Our investigator concluded that VWFS had done nothing materially wrong. She was satisfied 
that Miss G was aware that she had to confirm her acceptance of the payment deferral offers, but she had not taken them up. She said that VWFS had used a variety of means of 
communication to reach out to Miss G. 
It seemed to her that Miss G had not fully understood the documents due to her dyslexia. 
She recognised the difficulties Miss G had encountered, but VWFS were unaware of this and 
Miss G had the opportunity to seek help. She didnt think VWFS had been unreasonable in 
expecting Miss G to have been able to read and understand the letters and emails it had 
sent. She also noted that during the period Miss G was away the majority of communications 
from VWFS were either email or texts. Finally she noted that Miss G was aware of the 
possibility of the agreement being terminated on 29 October and no action was taken until 
23 November which showed a further degree of forbearance. 
Miss G didnt agree and said VWFS hadnt acted on her request to contact her mother while 
she was away. She also said that she didnt have her UK SIM while she was away for three 
months. She also said she had not covered the miles she was entitled to and so the car was 
worth more than it would have been. She said her credit score had been ruined due the 
incompetence of VWFS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Miss G who is a key worker, but I dont consider I can uphold her 
complaint. I will explain why.
I appreciate there are two mitigating circumstances. Firstly there was the two months she 
was abroad and not receiving letters. I also gather that since she wasnt using her UK SIM 
she may not have been receiving texts or emails. That period ran from 22 July to 25 
September. However, she first sought help in January 2021 and the agreement wasnt 
terminated until late November 2021. That means there were a number of opportunities for 
the issue to have been resolved outside the period she was out of the country. 
I have not seen any record of Mrs G having been authorised to act on her daughters behalf 
during that period. It may well be that Miss G did ask for that to happen during a phone call, 
but I would expect some written authority to have been provided before the business was 
able to communicate with a third party. It is possible that Miss Gs request wasnt acted on 
formally by VWFS, but I dont have clear evidence of what happened in that regard.
While I can understand that Miss G will have been distracted by her situation while abroad 
and dealing with the uncertainty of that but I am not aware of her or her mother acting to 
ensure VWFS was made aware of the situation. It was dealing with increasing arrears and 
limited contact from Miss G. It had offered her support in the form of deferments and on each 
occasion it had not receive the written confirmation it had sought. 
The second mitigation is the impact of Miss Gs dyslexia. Mrs G has explained that it has 
had a wider impact than one might imagine and affects her daughters ability to process and 
understand written information. I fully accept that. However, it is clear Miss G was aware of 
the need to reach an agreement with VWFS and it is reasonable to expect her to have 
sought advice from her mother or other third party so as to finalise any agreement which 
would have allowed her to help manage her finances.
VWFS offered Miss G a number of opportunities to enter into a deferment or payment plan 
and sent her a number of communications so she would have been made aware of the state 
of her account. If VWFS had not sought to support Miss G on numerous occasions I may have reached a different conclusion. However over a period of some 10 months Miss G was 
given a number of chances to address the problem.
It is also reasonable to presume that Miss G would have had some understanding of what 
money was being paid from her account and that she was aware that she was in arrears.
VWFS took some 10 months from when Miss G first sought help until it terminated the 
agreement. I dont believe it was aware of her dyslexia and it endeavoured to communicate 
with her using a variety of methods. It made reasonable efforts to support her, but eventually 
without the required response from Miss G it reached a point where it felt termination was 
the appropriate course of action. I am unable to say that it did anything materially wrong in 
its handling of this matter.
I appreciate Miss G finds herself in an unfortunate position, but I am unable to conclude that 
was as a result of any errors by VWFS.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman