DRN-3841447
The complaint
Mr T complains Coventry Building Society (CBS) gave him incorrect information as to when 
his savings account matured. He also complains he wasnt able to make an internal transfer 
between his accounts or a faster payment. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them here.
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Maturity of the savings account
Mr T complains during a telephone call with a CBS advisor he was told his savings account 
would mature and the interest would be applied on 6 October 2021. However he said the 
interest was applied on 5 October and had he known this, he wouldve transferred the 
money out of the account that day. CBS said Mr T was told during the call the account would 
mature on 5 October and he could access the money from 6 October.
Ive seen a copy of the documentation Mr T was sent when the savings account opened. It 
says:
What happens at the end of 12 months? At the end of 12 months, on the anniversary of 
account opening, your account will transfer to an Easy Access Saver (7) - an account which 
allows unlimited withdrawals without charge.
Shortly before the savings account matured, Mr T was sent a letter about it and the next 
steps. It says:
At the end of 5th October 2021, we'll automatically move your savings to an Easy Access 
Saver (7)* and close your Regular Saver (3) - Annual.
Based on the above, its clear once the account matured, Mr T would be able to access the 
money from 6 October 2021. 
I havent been provided with a copy of the call that Mr T refers to but I dont find its 
necessary to listen to it in order to reach an outcome. Based on Mr Ts testimony, he wanted 
to access the money once the interest had been applied and Im satisfied the earliest he 
could do so was 6 October 2021. On that basis, I dont consider the information provided by 
the CBS advisor was incorrect. 
Transfer between accounts
Mr T complains he was unable to transfer money between one CBS savings account to 
another.
Ive reviewed the terms of the savings account in question and the terms say the following 
about paying money into the account: 
You can't put money into your Regular Saver (5) from another Coventry Building Society 
account.
Based on the above term, I find it was made clear that transfers into the account from other 
CBS accounts werent permissible. Mr T was provided a copy of these terms so I cant say 
he wasnt made aware of the same. 
Moreover, I note when he tried to make the transfer he received a message outlining that it 
couldnt be made. So again, he was made aware about this. However Mr T comments at the 
time of making the transfer online, that particular CBS account was provided as an option to 
transfer money from. I can understand why this would cause him confusion and why he 
believed this transfer would be possible. CBS has told our service, they dont currently have 
the ability to turn off this account as an option but its something they are looking into for  
future IT developments. Overall, I find CBS acted fairly in applying the terms of the account. 
Making payments 
Mr T complains when he made a payment to a third party bank account, the payment wasnt 
processed as a faster payment meaning it wouldnt be made instantaneously. He 
comments other financial businesses apply such a method of payment. 
The terms and conditions that apply to CBS accounts says the following concerning making 
payments:
We take the amount off your available balance as soon as you make the request. The 
money goes into the receiving account on the next Business Banking day.
This means payments would take up to one business working day to reach the beneficiary 
account, it wouldnt be received immediately. In CBS final response letter theyve explained 
in further detail why theyve made a commercial decision not to process faster payments 
due to concerns around fraud. This is their decision to make and not one that our service 
would generally interfere with. Instead, I must consider whether CBS have fairly applied their 
terms and conditions and in this case, Im satisfied theyve done so. 
Other
Lastly, I understand Mr T is unhappy about the level of service received by CBS. He says he 
was told he would receive call backs but that never happened. CBS say they did contact him 
on 11 and 12 October 2021 as agreed and they outlined their position regarding his 
complaint.
I havent been provided with details about these calls but on balance I find its more likely 
they did take place and the above was explained to Mr T. As it was clear he didnt agree, I 
dont find it was necessary for CBS to have several further conversations about it. As I would 
expect, they investigated the complaint and communicated their findings to Mr T so I cant 
say CBS did anything wrong.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman