DRN-2331906
The complaint
Mr T is represented. His representative says Trade Facts Ltd (trading under the legacy 
brand of Galvan) did as follows:
Gave him unsuitable advice to open one of its advisory accounts for trading 
Contracts for Differences (CFDs) and Options CFDs  it says the account should 
never have been opened as it was inappropriate for him and the underlying CFDs 
trading activity was too risky and complex for him.
Did not ensure that he understood the risks associated with the account/trading and 
the financing costs involved  which accounted for around £2,100 out of his total 
trading loss of around £18,700.
Churned his account in order to generate commission for itself  based on an 
average of around 6 trades per week throughout his trading between September 
2014 and March 2015 (totalling 151 trades); and based on Galvans commission 
accounting for around £12,000 out of his total trading loss.
Galvan disputes the complaint.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded it should not be upheld. In 
the main, she said:
Record of Mr Ts profile at the time his account was opened shows that he had total 
annual income of £62,400 (from two sources); annual disposable income of £20,232; 
liquid assets of £27,500; 10 years experience in trading listed shares and bonds 
(with an average trading size of £10,000 and frequency of five per year); a medium 
risk profile; and income and growth objectives.
Mr T had the financial capacity to undertake the account and CFD trading, and he 
funded the account with £5,000 at the outset. He also had enough trading experience 
to undertake the account. In addition, evidence of contact notes related to 
assessment of his application for the account refers to him saying he actively traded 
in the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) and suggests he also told Galvan he had 
previous experience of CFDs. After opening the account, the evidence also refers to 
his tendency to trade aggressively and to him trading mainly on his own ideas from 
around December 2014.
It was reasonable for Galvan to conclude that the account and CFD trading were 
suitable for him. Its brochure informed him about the associated risks and the risk of 
losing more than his deposit. In addition, and in the absence of telephone recordings, 
the scripts used by Galvan for its initial calls show that further risk warnings would 
have been given to him during those calls. Contact notes show these calls were 
made and suggest that a brochure was given to him. He was informed about the 
risks and nature of CFD trading. The same applies to the costs associated with CFD 
trading  evidence of contact notes and the client agreement he signed show 
references to information about fees/charges/commission.
With regards to the churning allegation, the absence of telephone recordings does 
not help in considering whether (or not) Galvans trading recommendations had 
reasonable rationales behind them. However, evidence from the contact notes shows 
the following  that he was trading on a mix of his and Galvans ideas; that he had a 
tendency to initiate his own trade exits (using limits and market orders); that Galvan 
sometimes warned him about the trades he was making; and that, at a certain point, 
he was recorded as trading mainly on his own ideas, making losses and having to 
withdraw the remainder of his funds from the account. Overall, it does not appear that 
Galvan operated against Mr Ts best interest or that his losses were wholly due to its 
advice or that it churned his account.
Mr Ts representative disagreed with this outcome. In the main, it says:
Discrepancies in Mr Ts recorded profile must be noted. The following were in conflict 
with what was recorded  his annual earnings were actually between £48,000 and 
£52,000; individually, he had negative liquid assets (-£13,000) and there is evidence 
that he failed a suitability test for this reason before being encouraged to re-apply; he 
passed the test only after he was encouraged to re-present his application as one 
jointly with his wife; and when suitability of the account had to be reassessed in June 
2015 there is record that Galvan was told the majority of his liquid assets at the time 
was held on his fathers behalf. In these circumstances the account was 
inappropriate for him, the medium risk profile should not have applied, and the 
account should never have been opened.
The account was limited to a maximum size of £5,000, yet his total loss amounted to 
over three times this amount.
The assessment discrepancies call into question the reliability of Galvans records 
about Mr T trading aggressively. In addition, his application profile  in which he 
confirmed never previously trading in Forex, Futures, Options, CFDs and Spread-
betting; and having no education or professional qualification related to CFDs  does 
the same. It was Galvans responsibility to explain to him the realities of the 
associated trading risks, as he traded, and the generic contact notes references to 
overexposure do not establish this. 
The scripts provide limited evidence of what was said between the parties, given the 
absence of telephone call recordings; the scripts and the brochure presented to Mr T 
are not in dispute, but by allowing him to open the account after initially failing the 
suitability test Galvan should have taken extra care to make him aware of the risks 
and of losses as they happened in his account. In addition, Galvan had a regulatory 
duty to inform Mr T in writing about the initial unsuitability outcome and to withhold its 
advice if he insisted on proceeding with the account regardless.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Appropriateness and Suitability
The full arrangement in Mr Ts case involved his opening of the Galvan advisory account and 
then his opening of a CFD trading account with a third-party trading platform provider firm. 
The latter was where the actual trading happened, and the former was used to manage the 
trading. The latter appears to have been an execution only trading account. In that respect, it 
is likely that the third-party firm would have conducted its own assessment of 
appropriateness for his account opening application, as required by the regulators Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules (at COBS 10A). The duty upon a firm to assess appropriateness of a financial product or service arises when 
either is being provided without advice or portfolio management. I note that some of the 
arguments that have been made in this complaint reflect points about appropriateness. The 
complaint is about Galvan, not the third-party platform provider. Galvans role in the 
arrangement was to provide the advisory account service, so its service included advice and 
the appropriateness duty would not have applied to it. Instead the duty to assess suitability 
of the account (and CFD trading)  under COBS 9A  applied.
Evidence of Mr Ts profile in 2014 is as the investigator summarised  and as I summarised 
above. In addition, available evidence also suggests that Mr T declared net overall assets of 
over £300,000. I acknowledge the points his representative has made. I can understand why 
it claims discrepancies. However, I am mindful that responsibility remained with Mr T to 
present, to Galvan, accurate and relevant information about his circumstances. He  not 
Galvan  was the master of that particular knowledge. Galvan was entitled to rely on what he 
presented  in terms of his financial capacity (and profile)  unless it had cause to doubt him. 
I have not seen evidence that it had cause to doubt him.
The points about assets being shared with his wife and/or his father and/or held on behalf of 
his father have been noted. However, if those assets were not accessible to him it follows 
that he would not have declared them. Upon declaring them, it is reasonable to conclude 
that they were accessible to him. I am not persuaded to delve into the details of his access 
to those assets, that is his private affair, what is relevant is the fact that he presented himself 
to Galvan in the context of those assets and I have not seen evidence that Galvan ought 
reasonably to have doubted, questioned or rejected his reference to those assets.
The same analysis applies to information about Mr Ts trading experience. His experience in 
listed shares and bonds is not in dispute. As the adjudicator said, some of the contact notes 
suggest he told Galvan that he previously traded AIM stock. They also suggest he said he 
had some previous knowledge of CFDs. On balance, I consider that the notes are reliable 
and I have not seen evidence to show that Galvan ought reasonably to have doubted or 
rejected these representations.
I too have noted the initial suitability test failure, on 29 August 2014. I do not interpret the 
contact notes as showing he was induced to re-apply jointly with his wife. The notes say he 
asked about the alternative of a joint account and that he then arranged to return to Galvan 
the following week. Evidence from the trading/transactions statement shows he deposited 
£5,000 into the trading account on 19 September 2014 and opened the account (having 
passed suitability) on the same date. Overall, it does not appear that he was unduly 
influenced to open the account.
There is little in terms of risk profile assessment evidence, but I consider it useful to consider 
how Mr T reacted to the information he received in Galvans brochure. His receipt of the 
brochure is not disputed. The product information details in the brochure was well set out in 
what I consider to be an accessible layout and in accessible language. It provided 
information (and, in the relevant sub-sections, illustrations of trading profits and losses) 
under a number of different sub-headings, including What is CFD, A brief history of CFDs, 
How do CFDs work?, What is margin trading?, Leverage and risk, CFD commissions 
and CFD trading strategies. The message about the high risks in CFD trading was 
reasonably clear in the brochure. 
Mr T was not put off by that message, as he probably would have been if he was risk averse 
or if he was of a low risk profile. Instead, he proceeded with the account. This provides a 
basis to conclude, on balance, that he was prepared to undertake the risks associated with 
CFD trading. In this context, I do not consider that record of his medium risk profile lacks 
credibility. Irrespective of his readiness to undertake the risks, I also do not consider that the risks in 
CFD trading were unsuitable for him. On balance, I draw this conclusion based on his overall 
profile as addressed above  that is, his financial circumstances (with capacity for loss within 
that), his trading experience and his attitude towards risks. Given the contents of the 
brochure, I also do not consider that the nature of the risks in CFD trading was 
misrepresented to him. His representative says there is conflict between the maximum size 
set for his account and the losses he incurred. However, this point appears to ignore the fact 
that the leveraged nature of CFD trading, which Mr T was aware of and which, he knew, 
could expose him to losses beyond his account deposit, meant possible losses in multiples 
of his £5,000 deposit was a known and foreseeable risk that he undertook in the account.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded by the claim that Galvans account was 
unsuitable for Mr T. For the sake of completeness, I also do not consider that the account 
stood contrary to the income and growth objectives. Whilst its underlying CFD trading was 
risky, a successful account could arguably have met either or both objectives.
Beyond the initial assessment of suitability, I understand his representatives point about 
extra care required in ongoing risk management within the account. I am satisfied that the 
contact notes  in the absence of telephone call recordings  indicate that such care and 
ongoing risk management took place. As the investigator said, there is evidence of warnings 
that were given to him. They relate to risks and trading costs, including  identifying that he 
could be in breach of his maximum exposure and warning him against that; general warning 
to reduce his exposure; and identifying that his account was in a state of margin call and 
cautioning him to discipline his trading (which had become on mainly independent) in order 
to avoid close outs. 
The notes also show that Galvan was monitoring his trading patterns, exposures and losses 
 and indicate that such monitoring sometimes features in the discussions between the 
parties. Telephone call recordings would have been ideal evidence to consider further, but 
due to the passage of time it is not unreasonable that none exist. Nevertheless, I find there is 
enough evidence to indicate that the account was monitored.
Churning
COBS 9.3.2 (1) provides guidance on what the regulator considers to be churning and it 
says churning could exist in the form of A series of transactions that are each suitable when 
viewed in isolation may be unsuitable if the recommendation or the decisions to trade are 
made with a frequency that is not in the best interests of the client. 
The focus is on the frequency with which a firm carries out transactions for its client and on 
its clients best interests and the idea is to ensure that frequent transactions are not carried 
out only or mainly for the purpose of generating commission for the firm. 
Mr Ts representative has referred to the commission and financing costs he incurred. It is 
part of the nature of CFD trading that commission is charged for each opening trade and for 
each closing trade. The financing of positions  due to leveraging (borrowing) inherent in 
CFD trading  is also a part of its nature, and financing carries additional costs. 
There should be a reason(s), based on trading strategy and/or advice, behind each opening 
trade and a corresponding reason(s) behind each closing trade. That reason(s) should have 
nothing to do with the generation of commission for the business and should have everything 
to do with the customers best interests. Where there is evidence to show that particular 
opening or closing of trades, or batches of such trades, were lacking in reasons related to 
the customers best interests, it becomes more likely (than not) that the trading account was being churned. The only or main beneficiary from such trades would have been the firm (in 
terms of earned commission). I have not seen evidence of this in the present case.
Commission payments clearly contributed significantly to Mr Ts losses. In addition, there is 
evidence of high trading frequency. However, there is also evidence that many of the trades 
happened on Mr Ts ideas, so in the absence of Galvan recommending such trades it cannot 
reasonably be said that it used them to churn commission. Those trades were Mr Ts ideas, 
not Galvans. In addition, the regulators rules require me to consider whether such high 
trading frequency  as far as related to those initiated by Galvan  was (or was not) in his 
best interests. 
Another common characteristic of CFD trading is the presence of speculation on many short-
term price movements. Generally speaking, it can be more likely (than not) that CFD trading 
occurs at a relatively high frequency in order to make it viable or profitable  or, arguably, in 
order to make it in the clients best interests. This results in an increased amount of 
legitimate commission earned by the firm because of the increased amount of trading. 
Churning is therefore not an automatic conclusion to be drawn from evidence of frequent 
trading  it is even less likely a conclusion in Mr Ts case where many of the trades were not 
Galvans ideas. 
Without persuasive evidence of particular trades or batches of trades made on Galvans 
recommendation, made on arbitrary, reckless or unreasonable advice and made contrary to 
Mr Ts best interests, the allegation of churning cannot reasonably succeed. I have not seen 
such evidence, so I am not satisfied that his account was churned. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman