DRN-3781909
The complaint
Mr G is complaining about Trading 212 Limited. He says they didnt close a contract for 
differences (CFD) trading account when he asked them to, and hes complaining about the 
price adjustment they made when rolling over a specific futures contract.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 February 2023. I said I wasnt inclined to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint and explained as follows:
Account closures
Mr G says hes a vulnerable person and addicted to trading and that by keeping his 
account open, Trading 212 caused him to lose significantly more money than he should 
have. Trading 212 have said that they have clear processes in place for supporting 
vulnerable people suffering from an addiction and would close an account immediately as 
soon as they are notified of the problem. But Ive been through all the correspondence 
and I agree with Trading 212 that Mr G hadnt told them of his addiction or of any financial 
difficulties.
Mr G also says he repeatedly asked Trading 212 to close his account. I can see that in 
August 2019, he messaged Trading 212 but their reply simply said that he needed to 
send an email to request the closure of his account and removal of his data. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest that Mr G sent Trading 212 the necessary email.
Mr G messaged again in February 2020. Again, he asked Trading 212 to close his 
account and this time asked them not to contact him again. Trading 212 again replied to 
say that he needed to send an email to a particular email address. Mr G asked the 
Trading 212 representative: Can you please send a transcript of this chat to them 
please? to which the Trading 212 representative replied that he would after the chat was 
finished. Reading the chat history, I think this last point was misunderstood and the 
Trading 212 representative meant that he would send the transcript to Mr G  I cant see 
that the transcript was emailed to Trading 212s email address as Mr G asked. 
Im inclined to say the transcript should have been emailed, as requested, to the relevant 
email address, and that this should have started the closure process. However, I also 
think Trading 212 should make it easier for people to close their accounts. Mr Gs 
messages, both in August 2019 and in February 2020, should have been enough to 
trigger the start of the closure process, rather than requiring him to send a follow-up 
email. 
Having said all that, an email to the appropriate email address wouldnt have been 
enough on its own to close the account  the transcript says [then] we will be able to 
proceed further with your query. Its clear further steps would have been needed to 
complete the closure of Mr Gs account. Trading 212 would have needed Mr Gs 
instructions as to what to do with any open positions, and may have needed him to fund 
the account in order to close it. So I cant be sure that the account would have been 
closed even if Trading 212 had followed up on Mr Gs request to close his account. On 
balance I think the account would likely have stayed open. It follows that I wont be asking 
Trading 212 to put Mr G in the position hed have been in had the account been closed 
earlier. 
Rollover adjustment
When a futures contract is rolled over, its common for there to be a substantial price 
difference  because of the difference in expiry dates but also because of a lack of 
liquidity on one of the contracts. That was particularly true in this case. Trading 212 
closed the old contract at USD 3,199.10 and issued a new instrument with a longer expiry 
date, at USD 3,137.40. So they made a rollover adjustment to Mr Gs account - an 
adjustment based on the last price of the previous instrument and the first price of the 
new instrument. 
Mr Gs main point of complaint in relation to the rollover is the closing price on the old 
instrument  hes accused Trading 212 of manipulating this price. I can see that the price 
increased substantially at the end of the contract, and Trading 212 also acknowledged 
this. But Ive seen screenshots from Bloomberg which show that the closing market price 
was USD 3,196. Trading 212s last price on the old instrument was USD 3,199.10. So I 
cant say Trading 212s closing price was unreasonable  its usual for there to be a small 
difference (or spread) from the market price. 
Trading 212 didnt have any further comments. Mr G was disappointed though. In his 
response he said:
there were other message exchanges which Trading 212 havent provided to him or 
to us;
Trading 212 has put barriers in place to prevent him from closing his account; and
they should have given him extra spread protection instead of closing his position at 
USD 3,199.10.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Gs comments, but they havent changed my mind. I asked 
Trading 212 to give us all the messages theyd exchanged with Mr G and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest they havent done so. Ive been through all of these messages. In order 
to say that Trading 212 should have taken steps to close Mr Gs account Id have to be 
persuaded that Mr G had told Trading 212 about his addiction  but Ive seen nothing to 
suggest this was the case. I can see Mr G asked Trading 212 to close his account  but not 
that he told them why. Trading 212 told him what steps he needed to take  and although I 
remain of the opinion that they could have made things easier for Mr G, I still dont think its 
fair to say they should have closed his account without any further input from Mr G.
Mr Gs comments on the rollover dont change my mind  Trading 212 are within their rights 
to charge a spread even when the market price changes rapidly  I cant say this was unfair 
or unreasonable. 
As Mr Gs comments havent changed my mind, and Trading 212 didnt have any comments 
on my provisional decision, it follows that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about Trading 212 Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman