DRN-3339740
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tandem Bank Limited has been unreasonable in their requests for 
information from him.
What happened
Mr C had an instant access savings account with Tandem. He transferred money in and out 
of it on a very frequent basis, sometimes significant sums transferred in and out on the same 
day.
Tandem, bearing in mind their regulatory requirements, contacted Mr C in November 2021 to 
ask why he was doing this, and he explained that it was to take advantage of different 
interest rates with different account providers. Mr C expressed frustration that interest rates 
were fluctuating, and said that he was losing track of where his money was.
Tandem contacted Mr C in a similar vein in December 2021. He explained the same, but this 
time was asked to provide copies of statements to show the origin of the funds.
Statements werent received so Tandem contacted Mr C a third time in January 2022, and 
their call notes show Mr C said he didnt want to provide statements. Mr C complained as he 
felt he should be compensated for his time if he had to provide them.
Tandem did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. They explained that they had a regulatory duty to 
make such enquiries.
The case was brought to our service and an investigator explained that they agreed Tandem 
had done nothing wrong.
Mr C felt they had. He reiterated that it was Tandems actions  in changing interest rates  
that meant he was moving the money. And as such they should compensate him for having 
to provide statements.
Mr C also said he was upset at being contacted two days before Christmas because he had 
been in good spirits and the call had frustrated him. Mr C accepted that Tandem hadnt done 
anything wrong, but he still felt like they had caused him distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear to me that Mr C feels hes being savvy in trying to take advantage of the best 
interest rates from different providers. But in doing so it isnt a surprise to me that Tandem 
wanted reassurance of the origin of his funds. There is nothing wrong with Tandem doing 
this and I dont think the level of contact or requests have been at all unreasonable. So, they 
dont have to compensate Mr C for any frustration arising from this.
Mr C says he wouldnt have to move his money around if the interest rates didnt fluctuate. 
And that Tandem doing this was the reason why he moved his money. In turn he feels that, 
but for Tandem changing the rates, he wouldnt have to go to the trouble of answering their 
questions and providing his statements.
But while its Mr Cs decision on where to keep his savings, he should understand that 
moving money in and out of accounts in the way he is doing is likely to lead the account 
providers to ask questions  it is the responsible thing for them to do. And I cant say 
Tandem have done something wrong just because Mr C has found a rate he prefers with 
another provider.
I acknowledge Mr Cs point that Tandem should already know the origin of the funds 
because they were originally with them. But Tandem cant know exactly how Mr C moves his 
money around when he transfers his funds between several different account providers all 
the time. Even Mr C said he loses track of this, and its his money.
I also note, Mr C volunteered to provide Tandem with account statements during the first 
call, and said it would not be a problem. In the end Mr C didnt send the statements, he said 
he couldnt be bothered, but even if he had, I wouldnt expect Tandem to pay him 
compensation for doing so.
Finally, while Mr C says the call two days before Christmas upset him, it was a normal 
working day for most businesses. So, I dont think Tandem did anything wrong in calling him 
then. And I note that when they asked if it was a good time to talk, Mr C said it was. The call 
itself was short and the adviser was polite.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman