DRN-2927597
The complaint
Mr R  through a representative  complains about how long it took Bank of Scotland plc 
(BOS) to transfer his child trust fund to a junior ISA. 
What happened
Mr Rs representative made an appointment in December 2019 to arrange for his child trust 
fund to be transferred to a junior cash ISA. There was initially a delay opening the new ISA. 
And then faults with the paperwork delayed the transfer of the money. The transfer wasnt 
completed until July 2020. 
In their response to Mr Rs complaint, BOS accepted they hadnt handled the matter 
properly. To acknowledge this, they reimbursed losses that the fund had suffered after 
13 December 2019, and paid interest that the ISA would have earned from that date if it had 
been set up correctly. They also paid a total of £175 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience caused for Mr R by the mistakes. 
Mr Rs representative brought the complaint to us to consider. Our investigator said he felt 
BOS had taken reasonable steps to resolve the complaint, by reimbursing the losses 
suffered and paying some compensation for the non-financial impact on Mr R. But Mr Rs 
representative didnt feel the compensation amount was right, and asked for the case to be 
looked at again.
So its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the service from BOS wasnt up to a reasonable standard in this case. I can 
see Mr Rs representative had arranged an appointment in branch on 6 December 2019 to 
start the transfer of the trust fund to an ISA. It should have been possible for BOS to explain 
what would be needed from Mr R ahead of that meeting, so that there wasnt any need for 
further meetings. And BOS should then have been able to complete all the paperwork 
needed to get the transfer moving efficiently.
The letters Ive seen show they failed to do that. More than one meeting was needed in 
branch, and key details were missed in the paperwork. 
Having found BOS failed to provide a reasonable level of service, the question then is how to 
put things right. My starting point for that is to see what needs to be done to put Mr R in the 
position he would have been in, if the service had been reasonable. 
BOS look to have already taken steps to achieve that. Theyve now completed the transfer. 
And theyve done it so that it uses the value the trust fund would have had on 13 December 
2019. So I see no lasting financial loss that needs to be reimbursed to Mr R.
The non-financial impact  in this case frustration and extra effort needed from Mr R and his 
representative to get the transfer finished  is harder to put right. Nothing I can do takes it 
away, but compensation can at least acknowledge it.
Here, I see BOS have paid Mr R £175 in compensation. Thats in line with cases where the 
emotional impact on a customer has been persistent, but not too severe. That seems to 
match with the details of this case. Mr R doesnt look to have been caused any major 
financial difficulty by his money not being in the ISA. And a lot of the extra effort seems to 
have been taken on by his representative  who our jurisdiction doesnt allow me to give a 
remedy to. 
So I find that  while their service wasnt up to a reasonable standard on the ISA transfer  
the steps BOS have already taken to put things right are enough. They wont need to do 
anything more, so that means Im not going to uphold the complaint.  
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman