DRN-3612523
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund two payments (one for £1,057.67 and 
one for £533.65) totalling £1,591.32  which she lost as a result of a third-party scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator broadly for the 
same reasons.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Its not in dispute that Ms D authorised the payments. So, even though she was the
victim of a scam, the payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations.
Santander had an obligation to follow Ms Ds payment instructions, and Ms D is presumed
liable for her loss in the first instance.
However, there are circumstances in which a bank should make additional checks before 
processing a payment, or, in some cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm.
I appreciate the transfers were not in line with Ms Ds everyday activity. However, the 
balance wasnt cleared and they were (as far as the bank was concerned) still relatively 
modest payments. 
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimizing disruption to legitimate payments. Those arrangements do need 
to accommodate that spending habits alter, and it will be impossible to prevent all fraud 
without a significant number of genuine payments being delayed considerably and 
inconveniently. 
To the bank, both transactions appeared to be genuinely authorised payments. On the face 
of it, it seems to me that that there was no reason why the payments wouldnt have seemed 
genuine. I dont think Santander acted unreasonably in processing the payments without 
making further enquiries.
Ive thought about whether Santander did enough to try and recover funds when notified by 
Ms D she had been scammed. However, the payments did not go directly to the scammer 
but to an account in Ms Ds name before being moved to the scammer. Santander isnt 
under an obligation to try and retrieve the funds from the scammers/final destination account 
and any money from the beneficiary account was moved immediately by Ms D as part of the 
scam  so no funds remain. 
I do accept Ms D has fallen victim to what can only be described as a cruel and callous 
scam. Im sorry she has lost money and I can understand why she would like to be 
compensated for all her losses. But I cant hold Santander responsible for her having fallen 
victim to a scam. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation she finds herself in, 
ultimately, I dont think the activity was suspicious enough such that Santander should have 
intervened.
It therefore follows that I dont think that Santanders refusal to reimburse Ms D for the 
transactions was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman