DRN-1236858
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in May 
2000. Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in May 2000. The policy was 
added to Mrs Cs credit card account when she applied for the card in person. The policy 
cost 78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Halifax made Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. Ive seen a copy of the application form and note that the option of PPI was 
checked and the application form was signed by Mrs C. Ive noted that the 
application form was pre-populated, but on the basis that this was an advised sale, 
and was conducted in a branch, face to face, I think its reasonable to conclude that a 
discussion took place and that the form, including Mrs Cs personal details are typed 
because the form was completed on-screen before being printed off for Mrs C to look 
over and sign. And as the PPI premiums wouldve appeared on Mrs Cs monthly 
credit card statements, had the PPI been added to her account without either her 
knowledge or her consent, I wouldve expected her to query the PPI in the first few 
months of the account being opened in May 2000.
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs C, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, she told us she was employed and in good health so she wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have 
had a need for the cover. 
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for her. Mrs C 
told us she had some occupational sick pay in the event that she was off work due to 
sickness or an accident, but this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months and 
at a level over and above that provided by her employer. And although she had a 
small amount of savings, this policy wouldve allowed her to use her savings for other 
more pressing matters at what would likely have been a stressful time.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs C and her representative have said, but these points dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman