DRN-3877996
The complaint
Ms D complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) irresponsibly gave her two loans that 
she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 9 February 2018, Ms D applied for and was given a loan of £10,000 which was to be 
repaid over 36 months with a monthly payment of £379.96. On 1 June 2019, Ms D took 
out a loan that repaid the first loan, the loan amount on the credit agreement was 
£7,801.41, the loan had a term of 60 months and a monthly repayment of £213.80. 
In 2020, Ms D complained to Santander to say that the loans werent affordable and that 
Santander ought to have made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances 
before providing the loans. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Santander didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 12 December 2022, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not 
to uphold Ms Ds complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Ds complaint is that Santander made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Santander has explained that it relied in part on information that Ms D provided at the 
time of application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Ms 
Ds name to assess Ms Ds level of debt at that time and to understand how she had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Santander 
decided to agree to the loan amount of £10,000. So, there was some assessment of 
affordability at the time of the lending decision.
Considering the size of the loan and the total cost of repaying it over time, I think it was 
reasonable to take steps to confirm Ms Ds income. Ms D told Santander she had a good 
income and that was not contradicted by the software Santander used to confirm that. 
I have seen insufficient reason for Santander to have made further checks on Ms Ds 
expenditure. Ill explain why I say that. 
I have noted that the credit search that Santander performed suggested there had been 
hardly any adverse credit issues on Ms Ds credit file before the loan was given in 2018. I 
have seen Ms Ds full credit file and that supports what Santander found, which was that 
Ms Ds credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application in 2018. When I say 
this, I mean that Ms Ds management of her existing credit was almost entirely good. Ms 
Ds credit file shows that things were not so good after the second loan, but I must look at 
the information that was or could have been available to Santander at the time it made its 
lending decisions, and not to use hindsight. 
So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decisions for the first 
loan was made, Ms D was affording her existing credit. And so, Santander were not put 
on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the 
information that Santander had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to 
feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Ms Ds financial situation. 
So, I think that in this case the searches were proportionate. But was the lending 
reasonable? I think it was. 
I think that had Santander seen the credit file Ms D showed us, I think they would have seen 
insufficient reason from it not to offer her the loans in 2018 and 2019. Ms D had been 
managing her existing credit well. I understand that this was not easily achieved by Ms D, 
but her sense of her own financial difficulties, had not found its way onto her credit file. 
Ms D told Santander that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation 
(refinancing). So, I dont see the lending decision of Santander to provide the loan for 
debt consolidation, as evidence solely of new credit being provided by Santander, adding 
to an existing amount of personal borrowing. Instead, it looks like Ms D was taking steps, 
that could be termed sensible, to manage her existing debt by taking out this loan and 
using it to secure more favourable terms to some existing credit. I say that because Ms D 
would have been saving money on interest she would have been paying elsewhere and 
paying less for her debt than she was already paying. So, it doesnt seem automatically 
unreasonable for Santander to have facilitated that.
Having considered all the submissions made to me in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence that the other information that Santander acquired or had presented to it at the 
time of the lending decision, would have led them to think that the credit they were 
offering was unreasonable. 
Subsequently Ms D had problems making her repayments on loan one. The second loan 
refinanced the first loan and was restructured over a longer term to make the monthly 
repayments more affordable. I see nothing unreasonable in Santanders actions on the 
second loan. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Santander provided to Ms D was unreasonable.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 30 December 2022. Santander has responded agreeing my 
provisional findings. I am grateful to Ms D for pointing out a typographical error in the 
provisional decision which has been amended in the version above. Ms D was disappointed 
with those findings and has repeated her reasons for thinking the loans were unreasonable. 
As both parties have responded I am proceeding to my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons 
(above) for not upholding Ms Ds complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman