DRN-4009518
The complaint
Mr D complains about Lloyds Bank PLC.
He says that Lloyds didnt do enough to protect him from becoming the victim of a scam and 
wants Lloyds to refund him the money he has lost.
What happened
Mr D made contact with two individuals via dating websites. After speaking with Mr D, these 
two individuals persuaded Mr D to invest in cryptocurrency and made introductions to other 
third parties. It is now known that these individuals were scammers. 
He was persuaded to purchase the crypto with using his Lloyds debit card and then transfer 
this from his own crypto wallet to the scammers. 
The scammers then started to apply pressure to Mr D, encouraging him to invest more 
money to reach a certain levels which would allow him to make higher levels of profit and 
make withdrawals. 
However, he was then told that he needed to pay more money in order to make withdrawals 
and to access his supposed profit but needed to make further payments to do so. 
It was then that Mr D realised he had been the victim of a scam.
By this time, in total, Mr D had paid £6,910.32 across ten transactions. 
He complained to Lloyds, but it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr D then brought his complaint to this Service. Our Investigator considered things but didnt 
think that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. 
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I know that this will be 
disappointing for him, so Ill explain why.
Was Mr D the victim of a scam?
It is not in dispute here that Mr D was the victim of a scam  he was initially persuaded to 
invest through a dating app, and then introduced to third parties who applied pressure to 
Mr D to part with further money in order to access his supposed profits. The scammers then 
cut all contact when Mr D would not part with any more money.
Did Mr D authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr D isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
I dont think its in dispute that Mr D authorised the payments in question here - he provided 
the one-time passcodes to authorise some of the payments and they were made using his 
own debit card.
I understand Mr D had been tricked into instructing Lloyds to make the payments  but while 
Mr D never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact he 
authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of Mr Ds payments
After Mr M made the payments, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to do anything further until it was 
notified of the scam.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Lloyds) and the merchants (here, H, ES and K).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would unlikely have been successful. This is 
because H, ES and K are legitimate crypto exchanges and provided the services that Mr D 
had requested of them  the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a 
wallet of Mr Ds choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is 
therefore a separate matter  and so a successful chargeback would likely never have been 
possible  and so I dont think that these payments were recoverable once they had been 
made.
Should Lloyds have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Lloyds reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Mr D made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Mr D authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Lloyds should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
This leads me to consider the payments that Mr D made  and if Lloyds should have 
intervened.
Having considered Mr Ds account activity prior to the scam payments being made, I dont 
consider that any of the payments were sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to 
reasonably say that Lloyds should not have allowed the payments to go through. All of the payments were of relatively low value, and Mr D had made payments of similar amounts 
before. The payments were also spread out over a two-month period.
I understand that Lloyds requested Mr D to confirm he was making three of the transactions 
using a onetime password (OTP)  two of these being the largest payments that he made. 
But I dont think that these payments warranted any further intervention from Lloyds other 
than confirming with Mr D that it was him making the payments. 
I also know that Lloyds also declined other payments that Mr D attempted to make in 
between the payments that left his account as it deemed them to be high risk. But payments 
classed as high risk can still be genuine, and not every payment to a seller of crypto is due 
to a scam  and Mr D also authorised payments in between these declined transactions. 
And as Ive said above, there is a balance to be struck, and generally a bank is expected to 
process payments a customer has authorised it to make. 
So I cant say that Lloyds should have been obliged to have taken any further steps than it 
did, or have gotten in touch directly with Mr D about the payments, and Im satisfied that it 
didnt miss an opportunity to prevent the payments from being made.
I do have sympathy for the situation that Mr D has found himself in  he has been the victim 
of a cruel scam. However, the loss that he has suffered is ultimately caused by the 
scammers themselves  not Lloyds. And I cant ask Lloyds to refund this loss to Mr D when I 
dont think that it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman