DRN-3210738
The complaint
Mr B complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr B acquired a used car through a HPA with Land Rover Financial Services in November 
2016. In March 2021 he took the car for a service and was told the engine needed 
immediate replacement at a cost of around £9,000. Mr B raised his complaint with Land 
Rover Financial Service saying that he had serviced the car and had the MOTs carried out 
as required and that the engine shouldnt have failed having been driven less than 100,000 
miles.
Land Rover Financial Services said that given the age and mileage of the car it didnt accept 
that the issue with the car was present or developing at the point of supply.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that given when the issue was 
identified and the mileage Mr B had been able to drive, she couldnt say the issue with the 
engine was present or developing at the point of supply or that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the cars mileage at failure was 
88,480 and he had done everything he should have regarding the car and so the engine 
shouldnt have failed at this point. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B acquired a car through a HPA. Under the regulations, the finance provider can in 
certain circumstances be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. 
As our investigator explained the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is of particular relevance to this 
complaint. Satisfactory quality can take into account several factors and given Mr B acquired 
a car, relevant factors could include the cars mileage, age and history. Although the car 
wasnt new  and therefore some wear and tear could be expected  it was only a few 
months old and had been driven 6,200 miles. Therefore, the car would be expected to be of 
a quality that reflects its age and to be sufficiently durable.
Mr B raised his complaint more than four years after acquiring the car. I can understand why 
he was upset when he was told a new engine was required. However, for me to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that the engine failure was due to a fault that was 
present or developing at the point of supply or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
I have no further details about the issue that caused the engine failure so I have nothing to 
suggest it was a fault that was present when Mr B acquired the car. Mr B was able to drive 
the car for more than four years and over 80,000 miles, and while I note his comments about 
how long an engine should last, I do not find that I have enough to say that the engine was 
faulty or wasnt sufficiently durable.
Mr B has said he maintained the car and had the required services and I do not doubt this. 
The MOT history shows the MOTs in July 2019 and July 2020 recorded no issues that would 
suggest a problem with the engine at that time. So, while I can understand why Mr B is upset 
with the issue with his car I do not find there is evidence to suggest that the issue with the 
car is due to a fault present or developing at the point of supply or that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory. Because of this I do not find that I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman