DRN-4249287
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money 
once hed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr M came across someone claiming to work for a company Ill refer to as F who said he 
could help him to invest in cryptocurrency. The broker told him to first purchase 
cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as B and then load 
it onto an online wallet. Between 5 May 2022 and 13 May 2022, he made seven transfers 
totalling £62,000 from his NatWest account.
He complained to NatWest when he found out hed been scammed, but it refused to refund 
any of the money hed lost. It said the funds were all transferred to an account in Mr Ms own 
name, so it wasnt part of the loss and that he should contact the cryptocurrency exchange 
company he paid. It also said the payments were in line with his normal account activity.
It said it places appropriate and relevant warning messages across its online banking facility 
to warn customers about scams and information is made available on its websites and within 
its branches. It also said a message is displayed on its online banking facility before making 
a transfer or adding a new payee and customers must confirm they are confident they have 
read and understood the advice and are satisfied they have taken relevant steps to ensure 
they havent fallen victim to a scam.
It said transactions were genuinely made by Mr M using his secure online banking facility so 
there were no concerns at that time regarding the validity of the payments. And the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code didnt apply as the payments were made to 
an account in his own name.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. After our investigator issued his 
view, NatWest offered to refund Mr M the money he lost from 12 May 2022 onwards, with a 
reduction for contributory negligence. But Mr M didnt accept that offer and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
My provisional findings
I explained the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr M says hes fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. NatWest had said the CRM code didnt apply in 
this case because Mr M paid an account in his own name, and I was satisfied thats fair.
I was also satisfied Mr M authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although Mr M didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. NatWest is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
I thought about whether NatWest could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, NatWest 
had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider 
scam, so I needed to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr M when he 
tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect NatWest to intervene with a view to protecting Mr M from financial harm due to fraud.
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on NatWests systems, so I considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr M 
normally ran his account. All the payments were to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
company and the first four payments were relatively low value when compared to the 
spending in the twelve months prior, which included some larger payments which ranged 
from £1,000 to £4,007. So, I didnt think NatWest needed to intervene.
However, on 11 May 2022, 12 May 2022 and 13 May 2022, Mr M made payments of 
£15,000, £15,000, and £20,000 which represented a significant increase in spending for the 
account. Our investigator had noted that he made a payment of £125,192 on 6 April 2022 
which meant the final three payments werent suspicious or unusual, but I noted this was a 
CHAPS payment to a solicitors firm and the scam payments represented a significant 
change in the nature of the spending on the account as Mr M was paying a cryptocurrency 
merchant that he hadn't paid before 5 May 2022. 
Further, the final three payments were significantly higher than the other, more general 
spending on the account and it would have been clear he was buying cryptocurrency. The 
payments occurred on consecutive days and there was a clear pattern of spending which 
wasn't replicated in any of the previous spending i.e. large, consecutive payments to a 
cryptocurrency merchant. Because of this I thought NatWest should have intervened on 12 
May 2022 when Mr M paid £15,000 to B and that its failure to do so represented a missed 
opportunity to have prevented Mr M's loss from that point onwards. 
I said NatWest should have called Mr M and asked him some questions around the purpose 
of the payment including whether there was a third party involved and if so, how he met the 
third party. It should have also asked whether hed been promised unrealistic returns, 
whether hed been asked to download remote access software, whether hed made any 
withdrawals and whether hed been advised to make an onwards payment from the 
cryptocurrency exchange.
Theres no evidence Mr M was coached to lie and so I thought hed have told it that he was 
being advised by a broker who had told him to make an onwards payment from the 
cryptocurrency exchange and that he hadnt yet made any withdrawals from the trading 
platform. With the responses to these questions, I thought NatWest would have had enough 
information to identify the investment was a scam. It should then have discussed with Mr M 
the nature of the checks hed undertaken and provided a tailored scam warning.I hadnt seen any evidence that Mr M was keen to take risks with his money and so even 
though there were no regulatory warnings with either the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) websites, I 
thought hed have listened to a very clear warning from NatWest that there were red flags 
present which indicated that the investment was probably a scam and decided not to go 
ahead with the payment. This was supported by the fact he realised hed been scammed 
after discussing the investment with a family member, so I was persuaded he would have 
acted on a warning from NatWest.
Therefore, I thought NatWest failed to intervene in circumstances which could have 
prevented Mr Ms loss and so said I was minded to direct it to refund the money he lost from 
12 May 2022 onwards.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence but, in the circumstances, I didnt think Mr M was to blame for 
the fact he didnt foresee the risk.
He hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before and so this was an area with which he was 
unfamiliar. This was compounded by the sophisticated nature of the scam and the fact he 
wouldnt have known how to check the information hed been given. I hadnt seen any 
evidence that he was promised unrealistic returns or that he ignored any clear signs that the 
investment was a scam and so, while there may be cases where a reduction for contributory 
negligence might be appropriate, I didnt think this is one of them.
Developments
NatWest has indicated it has nothing further to add, but Mr M has further argued that on 9 
May 2022, he made three transactions in one day for £5,000, £2,000, and £3,000, which 
was unusual spending for his account. And he has also asked me to review my position 
regarding the payment he made on 11 May 2022 for £15,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further comments Mr M has made but Im afraid I maintain my view that 
NatWest didnt need to intervene until 12 May 2022. I accept he made three payments on 9 
May 2022 meaning the cumulative spend that day was £10,000. But as Ive previously 
explained, the historic spending on the account included several larger payments and, 
critically, a payment of £125,192 on 6 April 2022 which meant the spending on 9 May 2022 
wasnt so unusual that NatWest needed to intervene.
This same spending history meant that I was also satisfied that NatWest didnt need to 
intervene on 11 May 2022 when Mr M paid £15,000 to B, which is a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange and it was only the fact he made another large payment the 
following day that persuaded me that NatWest ought to have stepped in to ask him about the 
payments. This is because I was satisfied that the two large payments on consecutive days 
represented a significant change in the spending on the account to the extent that it 
outweighed the spending history that had, up to that point, meant the scam payments 
werent unusual.I understand Mr M will be disappointed and I have very carefully considered all of the 
additional comments he has raised but, for the reasons I have explained, I cant fairly ask 
NatWest to refund and of the money he lost to the scam before 12 May 2022. 
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should:
Refund £35,000.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If National Westminster Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this 
award it should provide Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman