DRN-4196652
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with several aspects of how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
handled a scam reimbursement claim that she raised. 
What happened
Mrs B received a text message which appeared to be from NatWest asking her to confirm 
whether a pending card payment had been made by her or not. Mrs B hadnt made the 
payment, so she called the number provided on the text message and spoke with a person 
whom its now understood was a scammer. The scammer explained to Mrs B that she would 
need to authorise the pending payment so that the payment completed before the payment 
amount could be reimbursed back to her account. As Mrs B believed she was talking to a 
genuine representative of NatWest, she authorised the payment as instructed.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs B realised shed been the victim of a scam. She contacted NatWest 
to report the scam. But NatWest were unable to stop the money leaving her account, and 
they declined Mrs Bs reimbursement claim because Mrs B had authorised the payment 
herself. Mrs B wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint. 
NatWest responded to Mrs B and reiterated that they didnt think they should be held 
responsible for any loss that Mrs B had incurred such that any reimbursement to Mrs B from 
them was merited. However, NatWest did accept that they could have provided better 
service to Mrs B regarding her fraud claim, including that they could have more clearly 
explained their reasons for denying the claim to her. NatWest apologised to Mrs B for this, 
and they made a payment of £80 to her as compensation for any trouble and upset the poor 
service shed received from them may have caused. 
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that NatWest 
should be instructed to reimburse Mrs B as she would like. And they felt that the £80 
NatWest had paid Mrs B regarding the service issues shed experienced already 
represented a fair outcome to that aspect of Mrs Bs complaint. Mrs B remained dissatisfied, 
so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that NatWest have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration.
It isnt disputed that Mrs B was the victim of a scam here or that shes incurred a financial 
loss as a result. But the question I must ask  regarding the fraud claim that Mrs B raised 
with NatWest  isnt whether Mrs B was scammed, but rather whether NatWest should have 
reasonably understood that Mrs B may have been in the process of being scammed, during 
the time the scam was taking place, such that they could potentially have acted in a way 
which may have prevented the scam from being successful. And also whether NatWest 
could have recovered the money for Mrs B after the scam had occurred. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And in this instance, 
its clear that Mrs B did authorise the payment in question  albeit having been deceived into 
doing so by the scammer. 
However, where the customer made the payment because of the actions of a scammer, it 
may sometimes be fair for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they authorised 
the payment. This can be the case if the payment in question was out of character with how 
the account holder had used their account in recent times, and if its felt the bank should 
have recognised this and potentially intervened in some way  possibly, by speaking with the 
customer and asking them about the payment  before allowing the payment to complete.
But I dont feel there was anything in the nature of the payment that should reasonably have 
given NatWest cause for concern here. This is because there were several similar sized 
payments that were legitimately made by Mrs B in the months leading up the scam. And 
given these similarly sized past legitimate payments, I dont feel that the payment Mrs B 
authorised to the scammers should have been considered as being potentially suspicious by 
NatWest such that they should have intervened before allowing the payment to complete.
Im aware that Mrs B feels that because she contacted NatWest to report the scam at a time 
when the payment was still showing as pending in her account that NatWest should have 
been able to stop the payment from completing at that time. But NatWest have confirmed 
that theyre unable to cancel a payment once its been approved  even while the payment 
shows as pending. This is because the pending status is only in place while the process to 
complete the payment between NatWest and the merchant to which the payment was made 
is completed. And this process cant be stopped once the payment has been authorised. 
Ive also considered whether NatWest could have done more to try to recover the money for 
Mrs B once theyd been made aware of the scam by submitting a chargeback claim. But 
having done so, I dont feel that such a claim would have been successful. This is because a 
chargeback claim can only be made in line with the chargeback scheme rules as set by the 
card provider  the company whose logo is on the card.
In this instance, because Mrs Bs claim was that shed been scammed but had authorised 
the payment, there wasnt any avenue available within the chargeback scheme rules that 
would have allowed for a successful chargeback claim. This is because while the 
chargeback rules did allow for claims when a customer had been scammed, claims of this 
type could only be successful if the customer hadnt authorised the payment. And a bank 
such as NatWest isnt expected to submit a chargeback claim in instances where they dont 
feel the claim has any reasonable possibility of being successful  as was the case here.
Given that Mrs B made the payment by credit card, Ive also thought about whether a section 
75 claim may have been successful here. A section 75 claim allows a credit card holder to 
make a claim against their credit account provider to get their money back if a retailer or 
trader doesnt provide the service it promised to provide, and the rules surrounding such claims include that there must be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) chain, such that the 
debtor has a relationship or agreement with the supplier. 
In this instance, the DCS chain would be Mrs B, NatWest, and the merchant which provided 
the travel money accordingly, and if the transaction in dispute had involved only these three 
entities, then a section 75 claim may have been appropriate. But there was an additional 
entity in the instance  the scammer. And because of the deception of the scammer, it 
seems clear that Mrs B (the debtor) didnt have any kind of direct relationship or agreement 
with the supplier who provided the travel money. As such, the valid DCS chain required for a 
section 75 claim appears to have been broken by the presence of the scammer. 
Additionally, regarding the transaction in question, the service being provided was the 
provision of travel money, and that service was provided. And while this service was 
provided to the scammer, and not to Mrs B, this wasnt apparent to the service provider 
when the service was provided, at least in part because Mrs B had authorised the payment. 
And for these reasons, I dont feel that a section 75 claim would have been successful. 
Mrs B has also explained that she doesnt feel that NatWest gave her all the relevant 
information to enable her to try to recover the money herself from the merchant to which the 
payment had been made. Specifically, Mrs B has explained that she feels that if NatWest 
had told her the exact branch of the merchant the money had been paid to, she would have 
been able to contact that branch and potentially stop the scam.
But the merchant in question here was a major UK retailer, with many branches nationwide. 
And NatWest wouldnt know exactly which branch of the merchant the money was being 
paid to, or what service it was being paid for, from the payment details that they received. 
Rather, NatWest would only know that Mrs B had authorised a payment of a specific amount 
to the merchant in question. And so, I feel it was reasonable for NatWest to refer Mrs B to 
the merchant themselves to try to obtain this information. 
Additionally, given that its now understood that Mrs B was deceived into authorising a 
withdrawal of travel money by the scammer  a transaction that would have been completed 
relatively quickly  I feel its unlikely that Mrs B would have been able to act in time to have 
prevented the scam from completing, even if NatWest had been able to provide her with the 
specific information that she wanted. 
Finally, Mrs B has complained about the service she received from NatWest when reporting 
the scam to them, including that she feels that NatWest didnt sufficiently explain why her 
fraud claim had been declined to her. NatWest have acknowledged that they should have 
done better in this regard, and theyve apologised to Mrs B for this and made a payment of 
£80 to her as compensation for any trouble and upset this poor service may have caused.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But I feel that the £80 NatWest have paid Mrs B 
for the service issues she encountered is a fair amount, and I confirm that its commensurate 
with what I may have instructed NatWest to have paid Mrs B, had they not already done so. I 
say this because the £80 payment is solely for the upset Mrs B experienced from not being 
kept up to date with what was happening with her claim and from it not being clearly 
explained to her why her claim had been declined in the first instance - and isnt in relation to 
the declining of the claim itself, which as explained above, I feel was fair. 
All of which means that I feel the response to Mrs Bs complaint that NatWest have already 
issued  including the declining of Mrs Bs fraud claim and the payment of £80 compensation 
for poor service  already represents a fair resolution to whats happened here. And it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint.I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs B was wanting, but I hope she will understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman