DRN-3763795
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that First Data Europe Limited (trading as Clover) has 
refused to refund a transaction which it didnt authorise.
This complaint is brought on As behalf by Mr A, the companys sole director.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here but, in summary:
A has an agreement with First Data to process card payments made by, and refunds 
made to, its customers.
Mr A has complained to First Data that on 14 March 2021 a £10,000 refund was 
processed without the authority or consent of anyone appointed to act on As behalf. A 
£5,000 refund was put through the terminal later that day, but was rejected by First 
Data. And a £900 refund was put through, but also rejected,, on 16 March 2021. 
First Data refused to reverse the £10,000 refund. They said Mr A told them he had 
changed the security code on the terminal. Hed also said the merchant terminal had 
been snatched out of his employees hands. Mr A failed to report this or complete the 
end-of-day process, which prevented them from stopping the payment. 
Our investigator didnt think First Data had provided sufficient supporting evidence. Nor 
did he think A had authorised the transactions or been grossly negligent. So he 
recommended that the £10,000 be returned with interest. Mr A accepted this on behalf of 
A. But First Data didnt reply. So the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Data initially sent us some limited evidence relating to this case. But they havent 
replied to any of the investigators subsequent requests for information or his opinion. I think 
theyve been given ample opportunity to put forward their arguments.
Overall, like the investigator, I dont think First Data has shown that A (or anyone appointed 
on behalf of A) authorised the disputed £10,000 refund. Or that A failed in some other way 
such that First Data can hold it liable for the refund. I say this having taken the following into 
account.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 say that a payer (A in this case, or anyone 
appointed to act on its behalf) authorises a payment transaction when they consent to 
that transaction in line with the form and procedure agreed with the Payment Service 
Provider (or PSP  First Data in this case). And if a payer denies having authorised a 
payment transaction that has taken place, their PSP must prove the payment was 
authenticated.
First Data has provided a copy of a Merchant Agreement and Card Acceptance 
Operating Guide as well as the Merchant Conditions. But neither document explains the 
form and procedure for making refunds or talks about the necessity for a security code to 
be entered. Nor do these documents warn about this particular fraud risk or how to 
prevent it, in particular, that amending the code from the default can help prevent 
fraudulent refunds. 
First Data hasnt provided the supporting evidence we asked for to show a security code 
was entered in relation to this particular refund. They say Mr A altered the code when he 
took possession of the merchant terminal but he told us that he hadnt changed the code 
and First Data hasnt given us a recording of the call in which he, allegedly, said he had 
changed it.
In my experience, its not unusual for a security code to be needed when processing 
refunds through merchant terminals. But Im also aware that merchant terminals are 
often issued with a standard, default 4-digit code and this might also be known by 
fraudsters. 
Mr A has provided CCTV footage that he says relates to the disputed £10,000 refund. 
And it appears from this that the payment terminal was handed over (rather than being 
snatched) by As employee to a customer so they could pay for some goods. The 
customer had the terminal for longer than I would usually expect  either to enter their 
own 4-digit PIN or to touch their card to the terminal. And, during that time the customer 
appears to be doing something with the terminal while his companion distracted the 
employee. I think its entirely possible the customer carried out the fraudulent refund 
during that time. And I dont think the employee ought to have realised what had 
happened at that point in time or prevented it.
First Data say Mr A should be held liable for the disputed refund because he didnt 
complete the end-of-day process. The Operating Guide tells the reader to follow the 
end-of-day banking procedure detailed in your Terminal User Guide to make sure you 
receive payment for all transactions. But also that Its essential that all transactions are 
submitted for payment within two (2) working days of being accepted. This seems to 
suggest theres some lee-way and the reader actually has two working days to complete 
the end-of-day process. Theres also no warning here that the process is important in 
detecting fraudulent refunds. And First Data hasnt provided a copy of the Terminal User 
Guide. In any event, First Data hasnt shown that completing such a process some time 
after the event would have prevented the refund from being made to the fraudsters card.
First Data says it has fraud prevention measures in place, but it doesn't monitor live 
transactions. Its not entirely clear what First Data means by this. But I do note it 
managed to reject the two subsequent refunds and prevent additional losses to A. Those 
refunds were both of a significantly lower value than the £10,000 refund. Its not clear to 
me why the first refund wasnt also rejected, particularly given that it was for such a large 
amount and Mr A says it didnt match any previous payments and was extremely 
unusual given the usual merchant terminal activity. 
My final decision
My final decision is that First Data Europe Limited should return the £10,000 to A and also 
pay interest calculated at 8%pa simple from 14 March 2021 to the date settlement is made.If First Data Europe Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest award, they should tell Mr A how much has been taken 
off. They should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
First Data Europe Limited should settle the matter within 28 days of receiving notification of 
Mr As (on behalf of C) acceptance of my final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A (on behalf of 
A) to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman