DRN-3834131
The complaint
Miss O complains Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBGI) did not carry out 
satisfactory repairs after she made a claim on her home insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of LBGI involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to LBGI.
What happened
In September 2020 Miss O made a claim on her home buildings insurance policy after her 
roof was damaged after a storm.
LBGI organised for an inspection of the roof and this reported a single tile had lifted to the 
rear of Miss Os roof leaving a gap. LBGI accepted the claim as storm damage and 
organised for its approved contractor to look at the repairs required before starting the work.
Before any repairs were undertaken Miss O reported further internal damage in a bedroom. 
LBGI asked its approved contractor to carry out a further inspection to establish the cause of 
the leak to the front and rear. 
LBGI initially rejected the repairs to the front of the roof but after Miss O complained it 
confirmed that repairs to the front and rear would be covered under the terms of the policy.
Repairs were completed by LBGIs approved contractor in early 2021.
In March 2022 Miss O contacted LBGI to say the roof was leaking at the rear. LBGI sent out 
its approved contractor back to review the roof. It found the damage to the roof was in a 
different area and concluded that the roof was leaking at the rear due to damage consistent 
with general wear and tear and it was not related to the work it had carried out in 2021. 
LBGI said it would not be considering any further works.
LBGI acknowledged it did not contact Miss O as agreed, she had to chase up calls and 
appointments were made without her knowledge or were altered.  And it took almost three 
months for it to provide a full report. LBGI paid Miss O £200 for the delays experienced and 
its lack of communication. 
As Miss O was not happy with LBGI, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold  the complaint. They looked into the case and said they were 
satisfied LBGI had handled Miss Os complaint in a reasonable way. They said LBGI s 
contractor had inspected the property and given a reasonable explanation as to the cause of 
the damage in 2022.
As Miss O is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the report that was completed in September 2020 and saw that LBGI initially only 
covered for repairs to the rear of the roof in addition to the internal work. 
The initial report from 2020 details  
A single tile has lifted back leaving a gap in the roof. During the heavy rain, the water has 
run down the felt into the eaves and stained the ceiling.
LBGI said it had declined repairs to the front of the roof as this area of damage had existing 
faulty work. I saw that Miss O contested this. LBGI then agreed to also cover the cost of 
repairs to the damaged areas of the roof to the front. It said it would deal with the storm 
damage only. And the work was completed in March 2021.
When Miss O reported in March 2022 that there was new water damage appearing in her 
bedroom, she said UKI had only concentrated on the repairs to the front of the roof and the 
partial repair that was done to the rear of the roof had left problems. 
LBGI instructed its approved contractor to go and inspect the roof.
I reviewed this report and it concludes that it is a different area and damage consistent with 
wear and tear. This report says; 
Upon further inspection to the roof we identified a number of maintenance defects which 
could be contributing to the damp stain in the ceiling, namely;
A. The ridge tiles adjacent to the verge are loose and lifted. There is missing mortar to 
the ridge tiles.
B. The Gable Verge has mortar missing between the bricks and the roof tiles.
C. There is evidence of moss build up on the edge of the roof tiles towards the gable 
end of the rear elevation.
We would suggest that these defectives are long term maintenance issues and not 
associated with the repairs that was carried out in March 2021. 
I saw that LBGI said its contractor did not carry out any works to these areas in 2021. 
I saw that LBGIs expert reviewed the report after it had been completed. It concluded the 
damage to the property roof is not related to the works carried out in 2021 and is not in the 
same area of the roof. It said the weather highlighted the wear and tear issues. This would 
not be covered under the terms of Miss Os home insurance policy.
When Miss O made the claim in 2020 for storm damage LBGI did highlight there were areas 
of wear and tear to her roof. It said it would deal with the storm damage only. Any general 
wear and tear issues were not repaired. It re-inspected her property in 2022 and has given a 
reasonable explanation that the cause of the damage relates to general wear and tear and is 
therefore not covered under the terms of her policy.
Although I know Miss O will be disappointed Im satisfied that LBGI has dealt with her 
complaint fairly. I do not uphold Miss Os complaint and do not require LBGI to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman