DRN-4060814
The complaint
Mrs F transferred money to her relative abroad using MoneyGram International Limited. 
Mrs F says the payment wasnt received so shed like a refund.
What happened
Mrs F sent a payment of £93.24 abroad to a relative (who Ill refer to as M). Mrs F says she 
selected to send the funds to Ms mobile wallet. She says although the funds have debited 
her account, they havent been received by M.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said MoneyGram provided evidence to 
show that the payment was delivered to M. She also explained she hadnt seen any 
evidence from Mrs F to show the funds werent received by M so she didnt think 
MoneyGram needed to do anything.
Mrs F said she didnt dispute the payment was sent but maintains the funds werent received 
by M. Because Mrs F didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F input the details required to send the payment to Ms mobile wallet. As this was an 
automated process, the onus was on Mrs F to ensure she had entered the details correctly 
which included Ms name and phone number. Im satisfied that MoneyGram followed Mrs Fs 
instructions and therefore sent the funds as Mrs F had instructed. So I dont think 
MoneyGram did anything wrong in sending the payment. 
Both our service and MoneyGram asked Mrs F for evidence that the funds werent received 
by M but this information hasnt been forthcoming. Mrs F says the evidence is her complaint 
form which says the payment wasnt received. Although I appreciate what Mrs F has said, 
without any further proof, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that the payment 
hasnt been received. 
In the absence of this key piece of evidence and taking into account that MoneyGram sent 
the funds as per Mrs Fs instruction, I cannot reasonably conclude that MoneyGram has 
acted unfairly by declining to refund her. It follows that I dont think MoneyGram need do 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman