DRN-4249194
The complaint
A partnership, which I'll refer to as J, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined to 
renew its lending facilities. Mr W, who is one of the partners, brings the complaint on J's 
behalf.
What happened
In 2014, J took out a loan of £1.8m from Barclays to fund its agricultural business. The loan 
was interest-only for the first six months and this period was extended eventually to three 
years. 
In 2017, J wanted to start repaying some capital and required some further borrowing. The 
parties agreed to a restructure of the borrowing into two loans, both with three-year 
contractual terms. One was a £1.4m interest-only loan and the other was a £700,000 
repayment loan with a term of 25 years.
J ran into difficulties and in 2019 there were discussions between the parties about the 
businesss ability to service the debt, and the bank introduced its business support team. 
These discussions continued through to 2021. Proposals were put forward by Js 
accountant. In August 2021, Barclays acknowledged that there had been improvements but 
said the cash generated by the business was still not enough to service the debt. 
The discussions didnt lead to an offer of renewed landing from Barclays, and ultimately J 
refinanced its borrowing with another lender.
J complained that Barclays manager in the business support team lacked agricultural 
understanding and there had been factually incorrect statements made by the bank. J also 
said that the bank hadnt taken into account the increased value of the property. The 
partners sought repayment from Barclays of their costs of rebanking. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays should be required do anything further. He 
gave these reasons, in summary:
Banks arent obliged to renew lending to businesses. Banks have lending criteria 
which vary from bank to bank, and these are commercial decisions. If they arent 
happy with the businesss performance, or with failure to accept proposals to 
continue the relationship, then they are entitled to decide not to renew facilities.
Barclays said that between May 2017 and April 2021 there was a consistent pattern 
of the business not delivering against forecasts, and not generating sufficient funds to 
service the debts.
After 2017, J faced significant difficulties which were outside its control, including 
those caused by the weather, price movements and the pandemic. But it wouldnt be 
fair to hold the bank responsible for these.
The investigator thought Barclays had been both patient and flexible. It had agreed 
several interest-only extensions before 2017, then in that year provided more funding 
and put £1.4m on interest-only for a further three years. When the loans became 
due, Barclays gave J plenty of time to try to come to an arrangement, then extended 
the loans further on several occasions, allowing J time to refinance with another 
lender without defaulting. 
J incurred costs for rebanking, but as Barclays havent acted unfairly, the investigator 
didnt think it should reimburse the partnership.
J didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. Mr W said the bank took advantage of his 
lack of formal financial training when the loans were restructured. He disagreed with some of 
the details of the banks version of the offers and suggestions made by the parties during the 
discussions from 2019 onwards. He also said the value of the partnerships assets had risen, 
which wasnt taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
Im satisfied that there was no regulatory requirement for Barclays to provide advice or to 
ensure produce suitability regarding Js business loans when the borrowing was increased 
and restructured in 2017. Ive looked at the facility letters to see whether they gave clear and 
comprehensive information about the loans, and Im satisfied that they did so. The letters 
also warned that if J had any doubts about the status of the lending, then the partners should 
seek independent legal advice. For these reasons, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly 
or unreasonably when the loans were agreed.
When the loan contracts were approaching their end, the bank was in my view entitled to 
make its own risk assessment in order to decide whether to renew the lending, and on what 
terms. Im satisfied that it was genuinely concerned about Js ability to generate enough 
income to cover the debt requirements. I realise that Mr W disagrees with the bank about 
some of the details of the discussions about renewal terms and conditions, but its clear that 
in the end, no agreement was reached. As the investigator said, there was no obligation on 
Barclays to renew the lending. 
Given Js business difficulties, I would expect to see that Barclays acted flexibly as the 
lending came to its contractual end. Thats what happened  there were discussions about 
possible renewal, and the bank gave repeated extensions for J to make and consider 
proposals. When the parties couldnt agree new terms, J had enough time to secure lending 
elsewhere and there was no default. I think the bank acted patiently and fairly.
Mr W points to an increase in the value of the partnerships assets. I can understand that 
such an increase would have put the business in a better financial position. But Barclays 
concerns were about whether the businesss income could routinely cover the outgoings on 
its debt, and I think the bank was entitled to take that into account in its assessment of the 
lending risk. As part of the renewal discussions, there was consideration of reducing the debt 
through further sale of assets, but my understanding is that in the end J didnt wish to do 
that. I dont think the bank acted unfairly here. 
As I find that Barclays didnt act unfairly, I cant reasonably require it to reimburse the costs 
of Js move to another lender.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards J, and I dont require the bank to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman