DRN-3879665
The complaint
Mr M complains that West Bay Insurance PLC (formerly Zenith Insurance PLC) mishandled 
a claim on a motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to West Bay, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold West Bay responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car, first registered in about 
2017.
Through an intermediary, Mr M took out a comprehensive policy with West Bay to cover the 
car for the year from 5 November 2021. The policy documents said that any claim for 
damage (except a glass claim) was subject to a standard excess of £100.00 and a voluntary 
excess of £250.00. In the event of Mr M using a repairer of his choice, there was an 
additional excess of £200.00.
Unfortunately, on 12 November 2021, the car and a third partys vehicle were involved in an 
accident. Mr M contacted West Bay. He later got an estimate from a repairer of his choice. 
On 27 November 2021, West Bay authorised the repairer to do the repair.
Mr M complained to West Bay. By a final response dated February 2022, West Bay 
summarised that complaint as follows:
When you called us on 10 December 2021, your call dropped several times.
You were passed to different departments when you called us on occasions about 
your claim.
We didnt call you to advise the repairs were authorised, despite us advising we 
would.
Youve had to send images in support of your claim more than once.
West Bay didnt uphold that complaint, but it said that it was sending a cheque for £50.00.
Mr M complained to West Bay again. By a final response dated April 2022, West Bay 
summarised that complaint as follows:
We havent yet paid your garage for the repairs to your car.
We didnt advise you of the applicable excess.
You dont feel the excess should be applied, as you feel we shouldve chased the 
other insurer more proactively for an admission of liability.
West Bay said that the repair garage hadnt submitted an invoice. West Bay partly upheld 
the complaint on the basis that it hadnt confirmed the correct excess amount to Mr M when 
he decided to use a repairer of his choice. It apologised and said it was sending a cheque for 
£75.00 compensation.
Mr M brought his complaint to us on about 21 April 2022. We summarised that complaint as 
follows:
The consumer's car was hit by someone in a rental car in the rear. The business 
asked the consumer to take his car to a garage for repair. When he went to collect 
the car he was asked to pay for the repair (£550) as that was the amount of his 
excess. As his policy was fully comprehensive the consumer expected the other 
sides insurance to cover the cost of the damage. The consumer has always had 
policies with an excess of £250 as its the amount he would be able to afford. The 
business awarded the consumer £75, but he's been left with a debt of £550 through 
no fault of his own. The consumer paid his insurance upfront, but he's had no support 
from the business. The consumer believes the car rental company should accept 
liability if the driver hasn't. The consumer told the business that he can't read and 
write. And he thinks they are abusing him because of this disability. This includes him 
ending up with a policy with an excess greater than he would've wanted.
Mr M complained to West Bay again. By a final response dated mid-June 2022, West Bay 
summarised that complaint as follows:
We havent chased the third-partys insurer for a liability decision.
You felt pushed into using your own chosen repairer.
We didnt investigate potential CCTV evidence.
A member of staff released your call on 21 April 2022.
We rejected your Bodyshops invoice.
West Bay didnt uphold that complaint.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
Mr M required additional support and that he was relying on West Bay to explain policy 
information. West Bay wasnt clear about the additional £200.00 excess. The investigator 
recommended that West Bay should - in addition to the £75.00 already paid - reimburse the 
£200.00 to Mr M.
West Bay agreed with the investigators opinion.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Liability has been outstanding for a year and it can't be left like this indefinitely.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The intermediary rather than West Bay was responsible for selling the policy to Mr M. So I 
dont hold West Bay responsible for any miscommunication (including about the excess) 
during the sale of the policy.
An insurer may make an outlay in settling a claim from its policyholder. Where it has made 
an outlay, its common practice for that insurer to treat the claim as an open claim or as a 
fault claim against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in full (typically from 
a third party).Most motor insurance policies contain a term providing that the insurer may decide how best 
to deal with a claim involving a third party. West Bays policy terms included the following:
We are entitled under this policy to:
 Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name
 Instigate proceedings at their own expense and for their own benefit but in your 
nameto recover any payment that they have made under your policy
That seems to me to contain conflicting pronouns We and they. Nevertheless, I consider 
that the effect of the term is that  on a question of liability involving a third party  West 
Bays view would prevail over the policyholders view.
The excesses of £100.00 and £250.00 applied to any claim. They would be uninsured losses 
that Mr M might seek to recover from a third party who was responsible for any damage.
The accident and a claim were, in my view, bound to involve some inconvenience in 
providing information and making calls. From what Ive seen and heard, Mr M found the 
process more frustrating than most people, with his difficulty in reading and writing.
I dont find any evidence that Mr M told West Bay of any source of CCTV images. So I dont 
consider that West Bay had any leads to follow.
West Bay didnt tell Mr M in his first call that there would be an additional £200.00 excess if 
he used his own choice of repairer. I consider that it shouldve done so, as he had 
mentioned using his own repairer. But I havent found enough evidence that West Bay 
pushed Mr M into making a claim or into using his own repairer. 
Nor have I found enough evidence that West Bay mishandled any calls or requests for 
information. On occasion, Mr M rang a customer services number and West Bay transferred 
him to its claims team. I dont find that unreasonable.
I accept that West Bay was clear in its request for photographic images, although Mr M 
ended up duplicating some.
Mr Ms repairer submitted an estimate of £690.00 including VAT. So the excesses totalling  
£550.00 were a high proportion of that.
I wouldnt expect an insurer to tell the policyholder when it had contacted the repairer to 
authorise repairs. I havent seen enough evidence to show that West Bay said that it would 
do so. In any event, by 10 December 2021, Mr M knew that West Bay had authorised the 
repair. And Mr M was considering not getting his car repaired after all.
I accept that on 21 April 2022, West Bay ended a telephone call. I dont find that 
unreasonable as the call had broken down.
West Bay has said that it hasnt received a final invoice from Mr Ms repairer, so West Bay 
hasnt made any outlay. I accept that West Bay is unable to pursue the third party for 
reimbursement of any such outlay. Also, I dont hold West Bay responsible to pursue any 
claim for uninsured loss including the excesses.
In any event, a claim against the car rental company would be unlikely to have any 
prospects of success, as the company isnt likely to be responsible for the acts or omissions 
of the driver.Putting things right
West Bay has said that it has sent Mr M cheques for £50.00 and £75.00. West Bay has  
agreed with the investigators recommendation to pay Mr M £200.00 in respect of the 
additional excess. I find that a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. As Mr M hasnt 
provided evidence of the date he paid the excess to the repairer, I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct West Bay to add interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct West Bay Insurance PLC (formerly Zenith Insurance PLC) to pay Mr M - in addition to 
the £50.00 and £75.00 already paid - £200.00 in respect of the additional excess. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman