The complaint
Mr K says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), irresponsibly 
lent to him. Amongst other complaint points Mr K has said Satsuma didnt carry out sufficient 
credit checks about his financial circumstances.        
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Satsuma provided to Mr K between January 
and April 2017. Mr Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Combined 
Repayment
1 12/01/2017 01/08/2017 6 £120.00   £37.92
2 01/04/2017 Outstanding 9 £500.00 £148.92
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. They thought the checks Satsuma had 
carried out before lending to him were reasonable and the information it obtained wouldnt 
have given it any cause to reconsider giving Mr K the loans. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said he was trying to juggle numerous loans, and these would have 
shown as overdue or defaulting on his credit report. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
DRN-1717213the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the loans. 
This included a full credit worthiness and affordability assessment via internal and external 
data sources. It gathered information about Mr Ks income and expenditure to establish 
whether the loans were affordable for him. It also included a credit risk assessment and 
fraud and anti-money laundering checks. 
For the first loan Mr Ks income was recorded as being £2,200 per month. His expenditure 
was £1,485 a month. So, this would leave Mr K with a disposable monthly income of 
£677.08 after taking account of the monthly loan repayment. On this basis, I dont think the 
loan looks unaffordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
And for loan two, which overlapped with loan one for three months, Mr Ks income and 
expenditure was the same as recorded for loan one. After taking account of the combined loan repayments this would leave him with a disposable income each month of £566.08. So 
again, I think the loan looks affordable. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Mr K provided to Satsuma which would have caused it to be concerned that 
he was having problems managing his finances.
Its possible that Mr Ks financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or any other information Satsuma obtained. And if his 
circumstances were different  which Mr K has said is the case  Mr Ks actual financial 
position may well have been more apparent if further information  such as bank statements 
or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained. 
Mr K has given us a copy of his credit report, but I cant see theres any evidence of 
bankruptcy, county court judgments or other poor credit reports significant enough that 
would have caused Satsuma to look further into Mr Ks financial situation. Equally, I wouldnt 
have expected Satsuma to have gathered such detailed information at the first point of 
lending to Mr K. 
Satsuma could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
That information  and the fact the loans were at the beginning of the lending relationship  I 
dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loans being unaffordable or 
unsustainable for Mr K. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Satsuma needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mr K for additional evidence of his income and 
outgoings which Satsuma could have gathered from his bank statements or copies of any 
bills, as examples. I have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by, 
Satsuma before it lent to Mr K. And there isnt anything in this information that may have led 
Satsuma to conclude that it should decline Mr Ks application for the loans. And there isnt 
anything to have prompted it to ask for more information about Mr K. So, I dont think 
Satsuma was wrong to have provided these loans, based solely on the information it had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Satsuma did for these loans was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mr K wasnt unreasonable. I appreciate my 
conclusion to Mr Ks complaint will be a disappointment to him  and I am sorry to hear 
about his financial circumstances  but I hope I have managed to explain how and why Ive 
reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5August2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman