DRN-4324012
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the service shes received following the transfer of her portfolio to 
Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity). 
What happened
In 2019 Mrs L applied to transfer her investment portfolio to Fidelity, a decision made in part 
due to the appeal of Fidelitys Wealth Management service. During the transfer process, 
Fidelity found they couldnt hold several funds on their platform, so Mrs L had to surrender 
those investments and transfer cash instead. There were delays during this transfer process 
and Mrs L made a complaint. Fidelity replied to that complaint in May 2020, offering £425 
compensation, which Mrs L accepted. For clarity, that complaint is not the subject of this 
decision, but it provides context for the complaint that is the subject of this decision. 
During 2020 Mrs L grew dissatisfied with the Wealth Management service  she felt the 
Relationship Manager (RM) wasnt giving her the level of service that she expected to 
receive. For example, when the RM spoke to her about the reinvestment of a fund in 
December 2020, the guidance he gave went against the publicly issued guidance from 
Fidelitys Investment Director about the specific bond market in question. 
In December 2020 Fidelity told Mrs L that she was invested in the wrong share class of the 
Fidelity Money Builder Income fund, which was one of the funds that had been transferred to 
Fidelity. Mrs L felt this ought to have been identified during the transfer process as a fund 
she couldnt hold, similarly to the others shed had to surrender during the transfer. Mrs L 
also raised complaint points about:
The Wealth Management service not being as advertised  for instance she hadnt 
been invited to any of the events that should be included
delays in receiving quarterly reports
not being sent documents due to Fidelity holding incorrect contact preferences
receiving incorrect tax information
pricing information she saw on Fidelitys website compared to other sources
Fidelity didnt uphold the complaint points about the RMs service, the Money Builder Income 
fund or the pricing information. However, in December 2021 they did offer an alternative RM. 
They upheld the other complaint points and also recognised a delay in dealing with her 
complaint. In total, Fidelity offered Mrs L £300 for the inconvenience caused. As she was 
unsatisfied with the reply, Mrs L brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She felt the amount offered by 
Fidelity wasnt enough for the overall impact the number of issues had caused and 
recommended that they pay a further £150. Fidelity was unhappy with this, as they felt the 
only reason for the increase was due to there being multiple complaints  but they did accept 
it. Mrs L didnt accept it. She said that:
If the problem with the Money Builder Income fund had been identified sooner, she 
could have sold it and invested elsewhere. 
The lack of quarterly reports meant that she was unable to properly plan what she 
wanted to do with her portfolio
The RM didnt give as much guidance as they were led to expect.
They hoped Fidelity make clear improvements to the tax information they provide and 
the pricing information going forward.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint and said the following:
I think the amount of compensation that Fidelity has offered for these issues, including the 
amount recommended by the investigator, totalling £450, is fair here. Ive addressed each 
issue separately below for clarity. 
The Relationship Managers role
Mrs L has set out several expectations for the types of information she was expecting the 
RM to be able to provide, for instance guidance around:
The amounts of different assets that should be held in the portfolio
The risk of continued holdings in bond funds
The risk of holding a large amount of stock in one specific area, for instance 
technology
I note that the service Mrs L has with Fidelity is an execution only one  this is important 
because it means that the investment decisions are hers to make. Fidelitys role is to provide 
clear, fair and not-misleading information  and they also have to ensure the information 
they give doesnt cross the line to being advisory in nature.
I wouldnt expect a non-advisory service to provide guidance around the amount of each 
asset type an investor should hold. This is because the asset mix within a portfolio is 
dependent on that investors personal circumstances and objectives.
While Mrs L may see it as asking for Fidelitys general thoughts on the structure of a portfolio 
 this doesnt mean thats how it would be considered by Fidelity, our service or the 
regulator. Firms have to be very careful not to stray into giving advice where they havent 
agreed to, because of the number of additional responsibilities and regulations that surround 
the giving of advice, over and above the provision of information.
Firms may be able to give tips like asset percentages in broad communication sent to the 
public. However, when this is given to an individual it can easily be presented or perceived 
as being a personal recommendation for that individual. So, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for the RM to refuse to provide that information.
As she was unsatisfied with the service provided, I can see that Mrs L requested a different 
RM, expecting that they would be able to provide her with the level of help that she wanted. 
However, I think its clear Mrs L had an expectation of the type of information that she 
expected to receive from an RM, which is over and above the type that Fidelity promised to 
give.
I can see that the RM didnt acknowledge Mrs Ls complaint when it was initially raised  and 
they should have, which Fidelity has offered £100 for. The investigator said that as this fell into the category of complaint handling that we couldnt consider it. However, Im satisfied 
that given its proximity to the rest of Mrs Ls concerns, we can consider this point. Ive taken 
that error into account when considering the overall distress and inconvenience caused. 
The fund switch
In December 2020 the RM sent Mrs L a letter explaining that the share class she held in the 
Money Builder Income fund was a restricted share class that she shouldnt hold. As they had 
identified it, Fidelity explained they had to make a mandatory switch into a different share 
class.
Mrs L is unhappy that the alternative offered by the RM was the same fund, despite this 
being around the same time as Fidelitys Investment Director having recently described the 
type of holding as return-less risk. Shes said her holding in the fund in question grew by 
around 1% in the ten months between the transfer to Fidelity and when she was informed of 
the need to switch share class. So, she feels a better return would have been achieved 
elsewhere if the issue had been identified during the transfer process.
The funds Mrs L was asked to sell during the transfer process were ones that Fidelity 
couldnt accept at all on their platform. However, the type of share class Mrs L held in the 
Money Builder Income fund, didnt prevent Fidelity accepting the transfer in of this 
investment. These are two separate issues. So, I dont think its something that Fidelity ought 
to have identified during the transfer process.
I appreciate Mrs L had read the general view given by Fidelity about income funds. However, 
where its recognised that an investor holds the wrong share class, its not unusual that there 
is a mandatory switch into the appropriate share class, as happened here. Its fair that the 
first option they gave was to switch into the appropriate share class  especially given that 
the December 2020 letter said that the switch between share classes wouldnt be considered 
a disposal of shares for tax purposes. Whereas if shed sold the fund and bought into 
another, then she would have had tax implications to consider.
Regardless of the general view given by Fidelity in public facing documents, the RM must 
not cross the line into giving their opinion as to the steps Mrs L should take. If the RM had 
put forward any proposal for alternative funds directly to Mrs L, it could seem like a personal 
recommendation. This is not allowed for under the agreement Mrs L has with Fidelity. So, I 
think its fair and reasonable that the RM didnt recommend an alternative investment. 
Nor do I think they ought to have listed all the other funds that were available for Mrs L to 
invest in, in that letter. In sending the December 2020 letter the RM wasnt advising her to 
remain invested in the Money Builder Income fund - if Mrs L didnt want to remain in it, or in 
income funds more generally, then she could have sold her units in the fund and invested 
elsewhere.
Overall, Im satisfied that Fidelity didnt do anything wrong in the way the share class switch 
was handled in December 2020.
The events under the Wealth Management service
Mrs L is unhappy that the Wealth Management service as a whole isnt what she expected it 
to be  and has pointed to the fact its advertised as including events, and shes not been 
invited to any. I asked Fidelity for further information about the events, and theyve said Mrs 
L became a client shortly before the lockdowns that were implemented due to the pandemic, 
so initially there werent any events.Once they resumed, they were both in person and virtual and information about them is 
provided in the Weekly Wealth Management Bulletin. Theyve also said that Mrs L has 
registered for a webinar. So, it appears Mrs L has been informed of available events. If Mrs L 
thinks the position is different, Id ask that she let me know in reply to this provisional 
decision.
The quarterly reports
Mrs L has said she didnt receive two of the quarterly reports for more than ten weeks after 
they were due. Ive received more information from Fidelity about this  theyve said:
On 7 May 2021 Fidelity sent the quarterly report covering January to March 2021. 
This should have been sent on 26 April 2021, so was eleven days late.
On 26 July 2021 Fidelity sent the quarterly report covering April to June 2021. This 
should have been sent on 18 July 2021, so was eight days late.
After a quarter has ended, their system takes around ten working days to generate 
the relevant data and for it to go through a sign off process. When thats done, it 
takes two to three working days to send to the printers, and three to four working 
days to print  once thats complete, it will take a couple of days to reach the 
customers in the post. 
The report can be downloaded from Mrs Ls account online, and is interactive, in the 
sense that it allows Mrs L to integrate different benchmarks to allow her to compare 
the performance of her portfolio. This is available separately from the transaction 
history, which is a more basic version of the statements and can also be downloaded 
from her account.
Fidelity has admitted that the reports were sent slightly later than ordinarily expected and 
has offered £50 for this. Mrs L has said she expects them to be provided much more quickly 
 within a week of a quarter ending.
I dont think its unreasonable that these take some time to be generated and checked. Its 
more complex than generating a bank statement, for instance, so it naturally wouldnt be 
issued immediately after the end of a quarter. In addition, its not unreasonable for a 
business to take a few days for internal processing and printing of documents.
Mrs L hasnt specifically said how she would have changed her plans for her portfolios, had 
she received these statements sooner. Given the short time frame of the delays, of eleven 
and eight days respectively, I dont think its likely there would have been a substantial 
difference in her choices. However, I have taken the delays Fidelity has admitted to into 
account when considering the overall amount of compensation here.
Tax information
In April 2022 Mrs L received a statement from Fidelity containing information about the 
taxable income received into her account. On 28 June 2022 she was sent another letter 
saying that a line on that statement had been duplicated, and to ignore one of the lines. Mrs 
L asked her RM about this, but they didnt have access to the June letter. In October 2022 
Fidelity eventually explained that the letter was sent in error  that her tax information hadnt 
been incorrect. They offered £100 for this error  in recognition of both the incorrect letter 
and the time it took to explain what had happened.
Mrs L has explained that this caused her to lose trust in the service being provided by 
Fidelity, particularly as it was on top of other previous errors. Ive taken this into 
consideration when thinking about the total amount of compensation. Contact preferences
In 2022 Mrs L discovered that her contact preferences had been mistakenly changed from 
postal and online, to online only. Fidelity couldnt confirm why this had happened and so they 
concluded it must have been an error on their part and offered £50. Again, Ive taken this 
error into consideration when thinking about the total amount of compensation.
Pricing information
In reply to the investigators view letter, Mrs L appears to have accepted the outcome given. 
As such I wont comment on this point further. 
Putting things right
Some of these are relatively minor problems when looked at individually. I dont necessarily 
agree with the individual amounts offered for each issue, in the way that Fidelity has broken 
down the compensation. Rather Ive looked at the situation as a whole, and considered the 
overall impact on Mrs L. I appreciate that neither party is particularly happy with the 
outcome, but Im satisfied its fair because:
The RM provided the level of information required  they didnt do anything wrong by 
not giving Mrs L advice about the best asset mix to hold, or the type of market to 
invest in or avoid. 
Fidelity did cause multiple errors, over a year and a half time frame. Communication 
problems seem to be the cause of most, with the RM not acknowledging a complaint, 
the delay to the reports, the delay with the information being provided about the tax 
information, and the incorrect contact preferences.
When requesting a new RM, there seems to have been a delay in one being 
provided and contacting Mrs L. I can see a new RM was initially requested in 
November 2021, and this was finally agreed in March 2022, which isnt a fair and 
reasonable amount of time.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that the total of £450 is fair and reasonable for
the errors and resulting distress and inconvenience that has occurred here.
Replies to my provisional decision
Fidelity replied and said they accepted the outcome. 
Mrs L replied and explained she didnt think the compensation went far enough. In summary 
she said:
She feels the service she received was not as advertised 
She maintains the RM ought to have provided different option in December 2020 
regarding the fund switch
She hasnt received an annual review in 2023 in part due to the inability to generate 
the necessary reports
The time to generate the reports isnt reasonable, and despite the oversight the time 
allows for, there are still errors
She hasnt received a posted letter correcting the incorrect information regarding the 
tax informationShe hasnt received an explanation for why the contact preferences were changed  
and theres a possibility they missed events due to not receiving information in her 
preferred way
The compensation doesnt go far enough to allow for the time shes spent dealing 
with this complaint
The cost of Fidelitys service is higher than other platforms, but she feels shes not 
getting the additional benefits advertised for that additional cost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed the replies to my provision decision, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings as set out above. Fidelity has made errors, and Im 
satisfied the amount of £450 is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience those 
errors caused. 
I appreciate that Mrs L received almost the same amount of compensation for her previous 
complaint about the transfer, as the amount in this complaint, even though this complaint 
involves more elements. I want to make it clear that I have not reviewed that other complaint 
and so cannot say whether I would have agreed with the £425 Fidelity offered in that case. 
That amount has no bearing on my findings about the amount of compensation in this 
complaint. 
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ls comments and they havent changed my opinion - Ive 
explained why below.
The service Fidelity has provided, including the reports
I know Mrs L feels strongly that the service shes received isnt as advertised. I have to say 
her comments have further persuaded me that shes misunderstood the service Fidelity has 
agreed to provide. Her comments around what happened in December 2020 show she was 
expecting personalised advice, which is not the service Fidelity have agreed to give. I know 
Mrs L is dissatisfied with the service shes received  but, other than the errors Ive identified 
above, Im satisfied Fidelity has made available the service they promised. 
Mrs L has compared the cost of Fidelitys Wealth Management service with the cost of other 
execution-only platforms and says that it hasnt been worth the additional cost. However, she 
has received additional services compared to a basic platform provider. There have been 
errors  but that doesnt negate the rest of the service she has received since moving to 
Fidelity. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say Fidelity ought to return any of 
the fees shes paid them, on top of the compensation theyve offered.  
Mrs L has said that shes experienced reduced investment performance, due to the 
timeliness of the reports and the lack of guidance on investment strategies. However, Im 
satisfied she always had access to the value of her investments on the platform, and 
ultimately, Fidelity was providing an execution only service. So, the choice of where to invest 
always lay with her. Even if I were to agree Fidelity ought to have done more, I wouldnt be 
able to say where Mrs L would likely have otherwise invested, or what return shed have 
received. Theres not enough evidence showing what additional information Fidelity would 
have given, or what difference that would have made to Mrs Ls investment decisions.  
Mrs L has commented on the time it takes to generate the reports  for instance shes 
mentioned two to three working days to send to the printers being surprising. Its not for me to dictate how quickly a firm chooses to do this, provided the time taken isnt unreasonable 
and as set out previously, Im satisfied Fidelitys ordinary timescales are reasonable. There 
were delays with some of the reports, which is reasonably addressed with the compensation.
The 2023 review
I note Mrs L has raised concerns about the 2023 review  however this is not the subject of 
the complaint Im considering. My decision covers the events that took place up until October 
2022  which is the last complaint response Fidelity issued. If Mrs L has new complaint 
points about events after that date, then she will need to raise them with Fidelity in the first 
instance. 
Contact preferences
I can appreciate its unsatisfying for Mrs L to not know why or how her contact preferences 
were changed. Unfortunately, there are some events that are inexplicable  or are 
disproportionately costly or time consuming to uncover. The change to her contact 
preferences seems to have been a one-off incident, that only changed Mrs Ls contact 
preferences for the Confirmation of Trade notifications from post to online only. 
Mrs L has said shes concerned that the change meant she missed out on events or 
information that could have been beneficial. My understanding is that the contact 
preferences only impacted how she received the trade confirmations, and information about 
events is normally sent by email. So, I dont think shell have missed out on receiving that 
information. 
If Im wrong, an in fact all correspondence was not sent via her preferred method, Im 
satisfied the appropriate way to compensate for this is as part of the overall award for 
distress and inconvenience. As Ive set out above, Im satisfied I wouldnt be able to say 
what other investments Mrs L likely would have made, had she received any other 
information.  
Overall, Im satisfied that the total amount of compensation adequately accounts for this 
error.
Tax information
Mrs L has said she would like a hardcopy letter confirming that the information she was sent 
in June 2022 about her tax statement was incorrect. I can see that this was set out in the 
final response letter Fidelity sent on 6 September 2022, which states that the information 
was wrong. I appreciate this was sent by email, not post  but I consider emails to be 
equivalent to letters, unless the recipient has a specific need that requires a hardcopy of a 
letter. 
Mrs L has not put forward any reasons why she requires this by post rather than email, other 
than it being a preference. So, I wont direct Fidelity to re-send this letter by post  but if they 
wish to send Mrs L a copy of this letter by post, then they can do so. 
My final decision
Financial Administration Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £450 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Financial Administration Services Limited should pay a total of 
£450.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman