DRN-4276091
The complaint
Mr C says when he told his broker - Bennetts Motorcycling Services Limited  that he had a 
full motorcycle driving licence, it cancelled his motorcycle insurance policy immediately.
What happened
Mr C was insured through Bennetts on a provisional motorcycle driving licence for many 
years. His policy last renewed in July 2022. When Mr C passed his motorcycle driving test in 
March 2023, he called Bennetts. One of its advisors told him his current insurer (insurer A) 
had declined cover due to the change in his licence type. Bennetts advisor then looked at 
other insurers on its panel, but none of them would quote. The advisor cancelled Mr Cs 
policy during the call, leaving him without insurance at no notice. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint. She said it wasnt Bennetts fault that 
insurer A had declined cover  or that it couldnt find another suitable insurer. But she 
thought it was unfair that Mr C was left without cover immediately, when its usual to have 
seven days notice of cancellation. She thought Bennetts could have done more, so she said 
it should pay Mr C £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mr C accepted her 
proposed resolution, but Bennetts asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for an insurer to decide what risks its willing to cover, and a change made by a 
consumer partway through a policy term may not be acceptable to it, for whatever reason. In 
this case, Mr C was dealing with an insurance intermediary, not with insurer A. And insurer A 
says it wasnt aware of the cancellation by Bennetts, or the reason for it. 
In line with normal practice, Bennetts advisor checked the computerised system during the 
call with Mr C to see what insurer A would charge for continuing cover, given the change in 
Mr Cs licence type. I think the call recording shows that the advisor was surprised and 
puzzled that insurer A didnt quote to cover that change. I think he acted appropriately by 
then checking whether another insurer on Bennetts panel would do so  and by speaking to 
a manager. After that, he told Mr B a manager would call him back and that he could make a 
complaint  but that the cancellation would be effective immediately. 
Understandably, Mr C was very upset and at a loss to understand why he no longer had 
cover, having been insured for years before he was formally certified as fit to ride a 
motorcycle. I think it was reasonable for him to assume that at the very least, I hed be given 
some notice of the end of his cover. Its standard industry practice for a consumer to be 
given seven days notice, and Bennetts terms of business document says seven days 
notice of cancellation will be given - unless the insurer is required to cancel earlier. No 
clarification of that is given in the document. 
In this case, the decline to offer cover was an automated one. So I think the most obvious 
step would have been for Bennetts to call insurer A to explain the situation and to ask if it 
was prepared to be flexible. Insurers have discretion around the application of their policies 
and procedures, so there was always a chance that insurer A might have been willing to 
exercise some. As that chance was lost, Mr C had to find other cover immediately.  
Even if insurer A hadnt agreed to a notice period, Mr C would have known that Bennetts (his 
long-term broker, chosen by him because it was a specialist in motorcycle insurance) had 
done all it could. And he may also then have had a better understanding of the general 
situation. I think that would have made a difference to the level of upset he experienced. 
In the circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Bennetts to pay Mr C £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bennetts Motorcycling Services 
Limited to pay Mr C £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman