DRN-3898054
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nelson Insurance Company Ltd mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a private hire vehicle. For the year from 
late September 2018, Mr A had the vehicle insured through a broker on a comprehensive 
policy with Nelson.
Unfortunately in early August 2019, the vehicle was damaged in an incident with a third 
partys vehicle (which was also insured with Nelson). At first, Nelson treated Mr As claim as 
not his fault. 
Much later, in mid- August 2022, Nelson wrote to Mr A, saying that the third party had issued 
court proceedings. Nelson said it would look to split liability 50/50 between Mr A and the third 
party  and this would affect Mr As no claims discount (NCD). Mr A complained to Nelson 
about that.
Mr A brought his complaint to us in mid-October 2022.
In early December 2022, Nelsons claims-handlers wrote to Mr A, saying that that theyd 
record the incident as non-fault and not affecting his NCD and that the broker would contact 
Mr A if hed suffered increased premiums.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator  
thought that Nelsons approach was fair.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He was extremely distressed to hear of court proceedings against him. 
Despite multiple requests, the insurer has failed to produce any evidence of such 
court proceedings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer has made an outlay on a claim by a policyholder, that insurer will often treat 
that claim as a fault claim against that policyholder unless and until the insurer recovers its 
outlay in full, typically form a third party or their insurer. Where the policyholders insurer and 
the third partys insurer agree to split liability e.g. 50/50, neither will recover its outlay in full.
Where the same insurer covers the policyholder and the third party, I would expect the 
insurer to treat any recovery of its outlay as having been from a third party, notwithstanding 
that it is actually a recovery from the same insurer, which remains out of pocket overall.
Nelsons policy terms included the following:
We may, at our discretion, take over and conduct in your name or the name of any 
other person indemnified under this insurance, the defence, prosecution or 
settlement of any claim for our own benefit.
We shall have full discretion over the conduct of any proceedings and settlement of 
claims.
Both Mr A and the third party alleged that the other reversed into their stationary vehicle. In 
my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Mr A some upset 
and inconvenience.
Nelson paid Mr As claim for repairs, vehicle hire and loss of use. From what Ive seen, 
Nelson dealt with that as a fault claim agonist the third party.
However, the third party didnt accept liability and wished to make a claim against Mr A.
Mr A had given details of a witness, but they didnt give a witness statement. So I dont 
consider that Nelson treated Mr A unfairly by saying that it was looking to settle the third 
partys claim 50/50.
Nelsons letter in mid-August 2022 mentioned court proceedings against Mr A. I dont doubt 
that Mr A was concerned about that. However, the policy terms entitled Nelson to deal with 
any court proceedings as it thought fit. So I wouldnt expect Nelson to give Mr A details 
except in the unlikely event that the case went to trial, and he was required as a witness.
In the final analysis, Nelson has given Mr A what he complained that it should give him, save 
for compensation. I dont consider that Nelson caused Mr A distress and inconvenience at a 
level that calls for compensation. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Nelson to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Nelson Insurance Company Ltd to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman