DRN-2300986
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about the refusal of a claim under his central heating insurance policy with 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). 
What happened
On 3 December 2019, Mr S made a claim after his boiler broke down. Aviva sent an 
engineer who diagnosed that the boiler was beyond economic repair as the part it required 
was obsolete. The engineer advised Mr S that he would need a new boiler and he was 
quoted for this. He also advised that he could get an independent engineer to quote, which 
might work out cheaper. 
On that same day, Aviva told Mr S that his boiler would no longer be covered and so his 
premiums for the policy would be reduced from 4 December 2019, as per the terms and 
conditions of his policy  
Mr S later found another engineer who came and examined the boiler. Mr S describes that 
that engineer fixed the boiler without the needing to replace it and the boiler has worked ever 
since. He paid the engineer £125 labour costs but didnt get an invoice. 
Mr S contacted Aviva to complain. Aviva in its final response said that its engineer 
diagnosed that the boiler was beyond economic repair. It understood that Mr S had obtained 
an independent engineer who fixed his boiler. But without any invoice or report from that 
engineer that showed that Aviva had misdiagnosed the issue, Aviva were unable to settle his 
claim of £125. But it removed the boiler cover from Mr S plan and applied a discount to his 
account, in respect of the premiums for his boiler cover.
 Mr S was unhappy about this and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld his complaint. She said that Aviva didnt treat Mr S fairly. She felt 
that it should refund the £125 cost that Mr S paid out as its engineers ought to have repaired 
the boiler at its first visit. She said that because he and his family were inconvenienced 
during the winter for a week, Aviva ought to pay compensation of £250. Finally, that Aviva 
ought to refund £69 in respect of the overpayment of his premiums. 
Aviva didnt accept our investigators view. It said it had applied the discount to Mr S 
account in accordance with its terms and conditions. It confirmed that it would now 
reimburse Mr Ss fee of £125 for the independent engineer. Finally, it said that the £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused - was too high. So, it asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. I issued a 
provisional decision on 21 September 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 21 October 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
Aviva has offered to reimburse £125 to Mr S for the payment he made to the independent 
engineer who fixed his boiler. It has done this without the need for Mr S to obtain any invoice 
or report from that engineer and on the basis that it accepted that it ought to have repaired 
the boiler at the first visit. So, I think it has been fair in agreeing to reimburse Mr S for this 
payment. 
I have next looked at whether Aviva was unreasonable in not refunding a further £69 in 
premium payments. Having reviewed the evidence, I dont think it was and Ill explain why.
In December when Aviva contacted Mr S to tell him that it had deemed his boiler beyond 
economical repair, it informed him that he would receive a refund of the premiums that he 
had paid in respect of his boiler cover. It accepted that the discount it applied to Mr Ss 
account was applied later than it wouldve liked. But it was done, as there was an ongoing 
dispute. Nonetheless, I can see that the discount was based on the date that his boiler was 
declared by them to be beyond economical repair, although it was applied at a later date in 
line with the policy terms and conditions which said:
If upon making a claim during the first 6 months of cover your boiler is deemed to be BER
or the parts required to fix your boiler are obsolete, you will be transferred to a similar
policy without cover for your gas boiler. Your premium will be adjusted accordingly and a
proportionate refund (calculated daily) in respect of the difference between the premium
for your old policy and the premium for your new policy
So I am satisfied that Aviva were fair in relying on the policy terms and conditions by 
applying the discount to Mr S account which meant that he was effectively refunded for the 
whole premium that related to the boiler cover from the date that the boiler was declared 
beyond economical repair. So I cant ask Aviva to do anymore in respect of this. 
Finally, I have considered whether the compensation of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused was fair in the circumstances. 
Our investigator felt that £250 was a fair level of compensation given that Mr S and his family 
were without heating and hot water for a week. She noted that Mr S has five children.
I have considered the local weather reports which are usually the best evidence I can rely on 
to check the weather during that week. I can see that for the time of year the weather was 
relatively mild. But despite this I accept that not having heating and hot water with a large 
family would have been unpleasant. So, in view of all of this, I agree that a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation, taking everything into account would be £250. 
Putting things right
As neither party has responded, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
My final decisionFor the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited:
To reimburse Mr S £125 for his bill if it hasnt already
Pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation and refund within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation and refund from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman