DRN-3590512
The complaint
Miss S complains that Oplo PL Ltd lent her money on a high cost loan irresponsibly, such 
that she couldnt afford to repay it.
What happened
Oplo provided Miss S with a loan of £3,000 on 28 January 2015 repayable at the rate of 
around £127 a month over a period of 48 months. The total amount payable at the start of 
the loan was £6,105. She paid the instalments until November 2015. Thereafter she entered 
into a debt management plan, and paid reduced payments of £40 a month. So far as I know 
those payments have continued and as at October 2021, about £2,600 remained 
outstanding.
Miss S complained to Oplo after contacting the Financial Ombudsman Service in October 
2021. Oplo said in its response that it went through a thorough credit worthiness assessment 
with Miss S and said that the loan was affordable. It has since been told by Miss S that she 
under-reported her outgoings but has pointed out that it couldnt have known that at the time. 
It also pointed out that Miss S had made her complaint more than six years after the loan 
was issued, and objected to the complaint being considered as it was out of time.
An ombudsman decided that the complaint was in time, and our adjudicator then reviewed 
the merits of the complaint. He thought Miss Ss combined regular consumer credit 
repayments, including the monthly repayments for the new loan, represented a significant 
proportion of her income. In those circumstances, there was a significant risk that she 
wouldnt have been able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again.
So, he thought it was unlikely Miss S wouldve been able to sustainably meet her 
repayments for the loan.
Oplo disagreed, saying it had taken into account Miss Ss credit record, and the reasons for 
her default of a credit card, and for recently having taken out credit. It believed the loan was 
affordable. It also raised the issue of the complaint being out of time again, citing evidence 
from its business file.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Oplo to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ss ability to make the repayments under the agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Oplo had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Oplo had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss S undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss S. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
To address firstly the question of jurisdiction, I consider this was resolved by the previous 
ombudsman who considered that issue. I note that Oplo now wishes to cite evidence 
(specifically the loan agreement) in support of its view that Miss S was made aware of her 
ability to complain about irresponsible lending. I should point out that this evidence was 
available at the time the ombudsman made her decision, and it was up to Oplo to produce it 
then. In any event the information about responsible lending, which Oplo has pointed out, is 
on pages 8 and 9 of the loan agreement and was not otherwise drawn to Miss Ss attention. 
It mentions responsible lending but doesnt specifically say that she would have had a right 
to complain about irresponsible lending. I think the complaint is still within our jurisdiction.
Turning to the merits of the complaint, Ive assessed Miss Ss credit commitments on the 
basis of a 5% monthly payment of the balance for her revolving credit (credit cards, mail 
order, bank overdraft). I accept that for the credit card in default she was paying £20 a 
month, and note that she had only one payment due of £15 for another loan, so I wont take 
that into account. I still calculate her credit commitments to be about £474 a month. As the 
stated purpose for this loan was for home improvements and a holiday, there were no loans to be consolidated. So with the addition of the new loan instalment, this increased her 
monthly credit commitments to around £601, about 44% of her monthly income of £1,364. 
this is a high figure and an indication that the loan may not have been affordable.
Miss S had three credit cards with balances on them totalling £1,680 out of a total limit of 
£1,750. She had taken one of those out a few months before to cover Christmas expenses. 
She had another card she hadnt used and while that may not have been relevant to her 
overall credit, she had used it, and gone over the limit in the previous few months. She had 
also in recent months taken out a loan which was again for Christmas. Shed also taken out 
a loan about one year before for over £3,900. I think that together with the ratio of her 
income to credit she was unlikely to be in a position to afford further credit.
As regards her likely disposable income, I calculate this to be in the region of £157 a month, 
after taking into account the loan instalment. I dont think, bearing in mind the other factors 
Ive cited, that this was sufficient.
So, whilst I think Oplo did carry proportionate affordability checks, I think those checks 
should have led Oplo not to offer the loan. So I dont think it made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Miss S has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Oplo should refund all interest and 
charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Miss S as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Miss S has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance Oplo should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss S.
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Miss Ss 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Oplo PL Ltd to provide the remedy set out under Putting 
things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman