DRN-3396051
The complaint
Miss R complains that Amtrust Europe Limited withdrew cover under her credit protection
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss R was involved in a car accident with another driver. Rather than claiming on her
car insurance policy she was referred to an accident management company (AMC) as she
said she wasnt at fault for the accident.
The AMC provided Miss R with a hire car and a credit protection insurance policy. The credit
protection insurance policy is designed to cover the hire car charges if the AMC is unable to
reclaim them back from the third party responsible for the accident.
During the course of the claim the third party disputed liability and said Miss R was at fault 
for the accident. The third party said Miss R had cut across their lane on a roundabout and 
caused the accident. Miss R disputes this but a witness supported the third partys version of 
events. Because of this the claim was passed back to Miss Rs insurer who settled it in 
favour of the third party. 
Amtrust then said Miss R had misled them about the details of the accident, so declined to 
cover the hire car costs and withdrew cover under the policy.
Miss R didnt think this was fair and complained, she said she didnt agree with the third 
partys version of events and maintained that she hadnt provided misleading information. 
Amtrust reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss R didnt agree she referred her 
complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found that 
Amtrust hadnt shown that Miss R had deliberately misled them, and therefore didnt think 
Amtrust was being fair by turning down the claim. She asked Amtrust to pay Miss Rs claim 
for hire car costs, along with any associated late fees and interest. Amtrust disagreed, they 
said the witness statement showed Miss R had misled them, which was a breach of the hire 
agreements and the terms of the policy allowed it to exclude claims for a breach of the hire 
agreement. 
As Amtrust didnt accept our investigators outcome the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion Amtrust has relied upon says they wont be liable for any claims under the 
policy for:
Any charges, costs, damages or indemnities for which the Insured is 
liable as a result of their breach of the Credit Vehicle Hire and/or 
Credit Vehicle Repair Agreement(s).
Ive therefore looked at the relevant term under the hire agreement to see if Amtrust are 
applying this exclusion in a fair and reasonable way. The part of the hire agreement Amtrust 
has referred to says:
8. You must at all times(ii) ensure that neither You nor the driver of 
your vehicle mislead Us about how the accident happened or in any 
other important way.
Ive considered this term and the exclusion, and Im not satisfied Amtrust have applied it in a 
fair and reasonable way. I say this because while the outcome of the claim hasnt been found 
in Miss Rs favour, it doesnt mean shes given misleading information. Furthermore, I think it 
would only be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to rely on this term if Miss R had intentionally 
misled Amtrust to obtain some benefit she wouldnt have otherwise had. 
Miss R has been consistent in her testimony about what happened, and Amtrust havent 
shown Miss R intentionally misled them. Ive considered the witness testimony which says it 
was Miss R who cut across the path of another car and caused the accident. However, Ive 
also considered the accident happened on a roundabout and that when an event like this 
happens, different people can have different opinions on what happened. It doesnt 
automatically mean someone is lying or intentionally misleading others. So, it follows that Im 
not satisfied that just because there is a witness statement which meant Miss Rs insurer 
didnt feel able to defend the claim, that it means Miss R intentionally misled Amtrust. 
As Im satisfied Amtrust havent fairly turned down Miss Rs claim, to put things right Amtrust 
needs to pay the claim, along with any late fees and charges. If Miss R has already paid the 
hire car costs. Amtrust needs to pay Miss R what she paid and add 8% simple interest per 
year to that amount from the date Miss R paid it until the date Amtrust pays the settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Miss Rs hire car claim, along with any late fees and charges. 
If Miss R has already paid this Amtrust Europe Limited need to pay Miss R what she paid, 
plus 8% simple interest per year on this amount, calculated from the date Miss R paid it until 
the date settlement is made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman