DRN-2932944
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the length of time QIC Europe Ltd took to settle a claim he 
made under his home insurance policy.
Mrs W is representing Mr W in his complaint. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr W made a claim to his insurer, QIC for fire damage to his and Mrs Ws 
garage at their home. 
Mr W made a series of complaints to QIC about the handling of the claim. QIC said it had 
handled the claim correctly and in a timely manner. So it didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
In November 2019 Mrs W on Mr Ws behalf asked us to look at the complaint. Our 
investigator thought that QICs overall handling of the claim had been reasonable. But he 
found that once the repairs had been completed in April 2019, there had been some delay 
and back and forth in the cleaning of the garage and arranging for items and debris to be 
removed. He thought QIC could have better responded to emails Mrs W sent during this 
time. For the distress and inconvenience caused here, he recommended QIC pay Mr W 
compensation of £100. 
Mrs W on behalf of Mr W accepted the investigators view. QIC didnt agree. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The overall time it took for the repairs to the fire damaged garage to be completed was ten 
weeks. Mr W intended to sell the property and so it was a priority for the garage to be 
repaired to prevent any potential delays. 
I can see that QIC instructed a surveyor promptly to inspect the damage and the claim was 
accepted within two weeks of the fire. 
Mr W said QIC didnt properly explain the policy limit for contents of £1,000. Mr W is 
unhappy that on accepting this sum it came to light that this didnt include the costs of 
cleaning and removing debris from the property. 
I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy with what QIC told him. But I dont think the information he 
was given was incorrect. I think QIC explained that the £1,000 contents limit is the maximum 
liability QIC accepts - and so it wont cover the costs of cleaning any contents that were fire 
damaged in addition to the £1,000 sum. 
I understand Mr W was disappointed with a case settlement offer QIC made for repairs to 
settle the claim. Mr W explained that having the repairs carried out was a priority due to 
wanting to sell the property. I dont think QICs decision to make a cash offer was 
unreasonable. And I understand this was done because it was possible Mr W could arrange 
repairs with a preferred contractor quicker than the timescale QIC were given by an 
approved contractor. 
The alternative quotes Mr W received were for more than the cash settlement QIC offered. It 
isnt unusual for an insurer - when offering a cash settlement as an alternative way to settle a 
claim - to base this sum on the amount it would cost them to complete the repairs. Insurers 
can have preferable commercial arrangements with a network of repairers. I appreciate that 
Mrs W on Mr Ws behalf was frustrated by having to take the time to do this  but I think it 
was an inevitable part of having to deal with a claim  and in order for consideration to be 
given to getting the repairs done sooner. I think its reasonable to expect a degree of 
inconvenience when having to deal with an infrequent event such as making a claim to an 
insurer for damage. 
Repairs to the garage were completed on 23 April 2019. A cleaning contractor was 
appointed and the first clean took place on 10 April 2019. 
Emails from Mrs W show she contacted QIC on 17 April 2019 as the garage door hadnt 
been cleaned and some of the brickwork wasnt clean. QIC says the contractor wasnt 
instructed to clean the garage door as this was separate and says this was rectified 
promptly. 
Mrs W complained to QIC on 1 May 2019 as the garage clean still hadnt been completed 
properly. Mr and Mrs W kept their washer/dryer in the garage and there was a storage 
cupboard fixed to the wall. This cupboard had to be taken down in order for the clean to 
properly take place.
QIC says the cleaning works were completed on 7 May 2019. However, emails show that 
Mrs W contacted QIC ON 16 May 2019 to request the removal of debris left and the fitting of 
a cupboard was outstanding. Mrs W contacted QIC again in June 2019 about the cupboard. 
Its not clear when this issue was finalised. But I think its fair to say outstanding issues under 
the claim for cleaning and disposal took about a month after repairs were completed.
Mrs W is unhappy about moving debris from the garage. She says due to the fire damage 
she doesnt know if this might have affected her nasal passages after being in contact with 
the items. 
I need to take into account that the policyholder isnt Mrs W. But even if she was, in this case 
Id need to be satisfied that the circumstances Mrs W describes occurred as a result of an 
error by QIC. I havent found that to be the case.
So I agree with the investigators recommendation to put things right in relation to the 
inconvenience caused by further visits for cleaning the garage and for the final removal of 
items.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr W 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience caused when arranging for the cleaning to be 
done on a number of occasions and the clear up of items from the garage. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman