DRN-3049336
The complaint
Mr B complains Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) didnt secure his property when he 
made claims under his commercial landlord insurance for damage caused during break-ins 
at his rental property. Any reference to Astrenskas actions includes those of its agents.
What happened
Mr B took out a Landlord Home Emergency policy with Astrenska. He made three separate 
claims under his policy  one for a broken window and two for damaged doors, caused 
during burglaries at his tenanted property. Astrenska attended on each occasion to make the 
property safe but Mr B wasnt happy that it left the property with damaged doors and 
windows, without arranging full repairs.
Mr B complained to Astrenska, which explained that the policy only provided a make safe 
service. Astrenska advised Mr B to seek permanent repairs through his buildings insurance. 
But Mr B didnt think he shouldve had to make further claims under a separate policy, and 
he thought Astrenska should repair the damage it caused when boarding up the property.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Astrenska handled the claims in 
line with the policy terms, and there was no evidence that it had done anything wrong or 
treated Mr B unfairly.
Mr B didnt agree. He wanted Astrenska to compensate him with £2,850, which was to cover 
the cost of replacing the window, both the front and back door, and the loss of rent.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
My role is to decide whether Astrenska treated Mr B fairly and in line with the policy when it 
handled his claims. The key issue, here, is that Mr B is unhappy Astrenska didnt carry out 
permanent repairs when it attended his three emergency claims.
Ive looked at the policy Mr B took out and I see it provides emergency assistance. The 
policy defines emergency assistance as:
Emergency: A sudden and unexpected event which, if not dealt with quickly 
would a) render the property unsafe or insecure
Assistance: The reasonable efforts made by the approved engineer during a visit to the 
property to complete a temporary repair to limit or prevent damage or if at similar expense 
the cost of completing a permanent repair
I think the policy is clear. It provides cover for emergency situations to minimise the 
likelihood that Mr Bs property would be at risk of further damage until he could arrange 
permanent repairs. So, Ive looked at the evidence, including photos, to see what Astrenska 
did in response to Mr Bs claims. 
Window
Astrenska attended on the same day Mr B made his claim and boarded up the outside of the 
window to make it secure. The inside was already boarded up.
Doors
Astrenska attended on the same day Mr B made each of his claims. It changed the locks 
and secured the doors. Astrenska reported that both doors needed replacing and it advised 
Mr B of that.
I think the evidence shows Astrenska dealt with Mr Bs claim in line with the policy terms 
stated. It secured his property and advised him he needed to make permanent repairs.
I understand Mr B thinks Astrenska shouldve repaired or replaced his doors and window 
under his policy, and he says it damaged them while making them secure. The damage 
shown in the photos of the doors and window appears consistent with that which might be 
caused during a burglary. While I understand Astrenska mightve caused some minor 
damage, such as drilling into the property to affix the boards, I havent seen any evidence 
showing that it caused damage which, alone, would warrant replacement or permanent 
repairs beyond those already required because of the burglaries. 
The engineers who attended to the emergency repairs reported that the doors needed 
replacing and the photos support that. So, I cant fairly say that Astrenska should cover the 
replacement cost.
Section 7 of the policy says: 
The insurer will pay for the call out, labour and parts and materials involved in an 
emergency relating to the security or roofing of your propertyas detailed below:
Security and Roofing: The insurer will arrange an emergency repair to make the property 
safe and/or prevent further damage in the event of damage or failure to the roof, external 
locks, door or window.
Its clear that the policy Mr B had only covered emergency, temporary repairs. Astrenska 
suggested he make a claim under his buildings insurance for the permanent repairs or 
replacements. Im satisfied that Astrenska had no responsibility to carry out a permanent 
repair, so it was reasonable for it to make that suggestion. It was Mr Bs responsibility to 
arrange for a lasting repair either through his buildings insurance or privately.
In summary, Im satisfied that Astrenska provided the emergency assistance in line with the 
policy Mr B had, and I see no reason to ask it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman