DRN-4219420
The complaint
Mr B complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) failed to correctly carry out his 
instruction to transfer one holding into his HSDL account, from another investment platform. 
He says it then provided very poor service when he contacted it about its error and delayed 
returning his investments to the other investment platform.
Mr B says, not only has he experienced considerable worry and inconvenience as a result of 
HSDLs errors, he has also lost out financially.
What happened
On 30 September 2021, Mr B instructed HSDL to transfer one holding from another 
investment platform to his HSDL account.
For whatever reason, HSDL instructed Mr Bs other investment platform provider to transfer 
all Mr Bs holdings to HSDL. In early October 2021, as soon as Mr B became aware of 
HSDLs error, he contacted it and asked it to put matters right. HSDL failed to correct its 
mistake. 
Mr B then wrote to HSDL on 26 October 2021, setting out his concerns and asking it to 
return his holdings (except the holding he had instructed it to transfer). HSDL did not reply to 
Mr B or take any action following receipt of this letter. Mr B then wrote to HSDL again on 23 
November 2021.
On 24 November 2021, HSDL contacted the other investment platform provider to ask for its 
help in correcting the error. HSDL caused further delays when it rejected the first transfer out 
request it received from the other investment platform  despite having asked it to make the 
request. HSDL then delayed approving the second request and Mr Bs holdings were not 
returned to the original investment platform until late January 2022.
Mr B experienced further problems as the holding he had wanted to transfer to HSDL then 
disappeared from his HSDL account, but was not included in the holdings that were 
transferred back to the original investment platform.
Mr B told HSDL that he had wanted to sell one of the holdings HSDL had incorrectly 
transferred in but thought he would not be able to do so until the holding had been 
transferred back to the original investment platform. Mr B said he had lost around £600 as a 
result of being unable to trade.
HSDL apologised to Mr B for its failure to correctly carry out his instruction to transfer in one 
holding, and its failure to arrange for the incorrectly transferred funds to be returned. It also 
apologised for failing to respond to his letter dated 26 October 2021. It said it had paid £200 
to Mr Bs bank account to compensate him for the problems he had experienced.
It subsequently offered to pay Mr B a further £200 for the additional problems it had caused 
when the holding Mr B had wanted HSDL to retain in his account with it disappeared. It said 
the holding had remained with HSDL but due to a keying error was not visible in Mr Bs 
HSDL account for over two weeks in late January and early February 2022.
However, it said it did not think it needed to offer Mr B any compensation in relation to his 
complaint that he hadnt been able to access or trade his holdings for around four months, 
while the transfer back to the original investment platform was in progress. It said Mr B could 
have placed trades during this time.
Mr B was not satisfied with HSDLs response and referred his complaint to this service.
Having considered Mr Bs complaint our investigator said she felt the offer HSDL had made 
was fair and reasonable and she didnt think it needed to do any more to resolve matters.
Mr B was not satisfied with our investigators view. He said, in summary, that it had only 
taken around two weeks for HSDL to arrange the transfer in of all his holdings. He said that if 
the transfer back had been arranged as promptly all the other problems and specifically my 
loss of £600 would not have happened  Mr B explained that he was in daily expectation 
that his holdings would be transferred back to the original investment platform. And he said 
he felt it was unfair that, due to the problems HSDL had caused, he had lost out financially.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 26 May 2023. In it I set out that my 
provisional decision was that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part. In order to put 
matters right I said I thought HSDL should pay Mr B a total of £750 for the trouble and upset 
its very poor service had caused him. I explained my provisional decision as follows:
Transfer of holdings
I said it was not in dispute that Mr B gave HSDL very clear instructions in September 2021. 
Not only did Mr B clearly set out his instructions on the transfer form he submitted, he also 
included a covering letter in which he said:
To make it doubly clear, the only investment with [name of investment platform] that I wish to 
transfer to yourselves is in the M&G Securities I Dividend Fund
I noted that HSDL accepted that instead of acting on the instruction Mr B had given, it 
incorrectly requested the transfer of all his holdings from the other investment platform. 
As Mr B observed, mistakes can and do happen; it is what a business does to put matters 
right that is important. I said I thought that HSDLs failure to promptly rectify its error was the 
crux of Mr Bs complaint.
It appeared the transfer request error HSDL made on Mr Bs share dealing account was not 
identified by any internal checks. It only came to light when Mr B telephoned it in early 
October 2021, to express his concern that it appeared all his holdings had been transferred 
to HSDL, despite his clear instruction that only one holding should be transferred. 
I noted that Mr B said he was assured by HSDL that the error would be sorted out.
Despite this assurance, by late October 2021, Mr B had still not received anything to show 
that HSDL had returned his holdings to the original investment platform. Mr B then wrote to 
HSDL on 26 October 2021. In the letter Mr B explained that as soon as he was aware of 
HSDLs error he had:
 immediately contacted the  number, and a member of staff called [name] appeared to 
have dealt with this by enabling the transfer in of the one Fund - an M&G Dividend Fund- 
and, theoretically, cancelling the unwanted transfer of the other investments.Despite this, the further funds - totalling more than [amount] - appear to have disappeared- 
until now - into the ether!
Although the letter did not specifically say that Mr B wanted to complain about HSDLs poor 
service, it contained clear expressions of dissatisfaction. As this was the case, I said I 
thought this letter should have been treated as a formal complaint by HSDL and 
acknowledged and investigated in line with the requirements set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Dispute Resolution sourcebook.
I noted that HSDL did not acknowledge or take any action in response to this letter.
Mr B then wrote to HSDL again on 23 November 2021, again setting out his concerns and 
noting that it was now over two months since HSDLs initial error.
I said I could see from the records HSDL had provided to this service that on 24 November 
2021, it contacted Mr Bs other investment platform. HSDL asked it to raise a transfer out 
request for the holdings that HSDL had incorrectly transferred in. But I said I had not been 
provided with anything to show that HSDL took any steps to correct its error before this date, 
despite knowing that it had incorrectly transferred all Mr Bs holdings into his HSDL account 
in early October 2021.
I explained that, as HSDL would be aware, it is required to act with skill, care, and diligence. 
I said I could not reasonably find that in this instance HSDL had done so. Beyond a single 
email to Mr Bs other investment platform in early October 2021, to ask if it could cancel the 
transfer of all but one of Mr Bs funds, it appeared that it had failed to take any action until 
late November 2021, after Mr B had written to it twice asking it to put matters right.
I said I didnt think it was fair or reasonable for HSDL to fail to correct its error, after Mr B had 
made it aware of the problem in early October 2021. Nor did I think it was fair or reasonable 
for it to ignore Mr Bs letter setting out his dissatisfaction in late October 2021.
Despite having been told by Mr Bs other investment platform provider that HSDL would 
need to arrange a Transfer IN to [name of platform] for all funds except M&G 
SECURITIES LTD electronically on Altus on 11 October 2021, I noted there was nothing to 
show that HSDL took any action until 24 November 2021, after it had received Mr Bs 
second letter.
From the records I had seen, I said it appeared that Mr Bs other investment platform 
provider responded promptly to HSDLs request for help. However, HSDL then caused 
further delays when it rejected the transfer-in request it had asked the other investment 
platform provider to submit. 
It then delayed the second transfer request for nearly two weeks with a query about Mr Bs 
ISA contribution for that tax year. I noted that Mr Bs other investment platform had to chase 
HSDL up about the transfer of Mr Bs holdings back to it.
I said I thought that the delays in transferring Mr Bs holdings back to his other investment 
platform provider between early October 2021 and late January 2022, were due to HSDLs 
continuing poor service. As the transfer back to Mr Bs other investment platform was only 
necessary due to HSDLs original mistake, I said I thought that HSDL should have done 
more to ensure the transfer happened as quickly and smoothly as possible.
I said I must also take into account that Mr B continued to experience problems, due to 
HSDLs poor service, even after his holdings had been returned to his other investment 
platform. I noted that HSDL said that after Mr Bs holdings had been returned: a keying error at our end resulted in units in the M&G Dividend Fund not being visible in your HSDL 
ISA from 25th January 2022 till 10th February 2022 when the error was corrected. However I 
can confirm that the units never left our platform as you had requested that this fund be kept 
with HSDL.
Having very carefully considered this aspect of Mr Bs complaint, I said I didnt think the £400 
HSDL had offered to pay Mr B was sufficient to compensate him for the trouble and upset he 
had experienced as a result of its very poor service.
Could Mr B have placed trades?
Mr B explained that he,  believed that I could not deal with these funds until the transfer 
back had been completed. I had nothing to tell me otherwise, and Halifax have produced 
nothing to prove that I knew otherwise.
Mr B also explained that in both the letters he sent to HSDL in October and November 2021, 
he said he thought he  was not able to deal with my Funds. Mr B said that he had lost 
around £600 on one of his funds as it fell in value before he was able to sell it.
I carefully considered the points Mr B made in relation to this aspect of his complaint. Having 
done so my provisional decision was that I didnt think I could reasonably require HSDL to 
reimburse Mr B for the loss he said he had suffered as a result of being unable to trade.
I said I agreed that it would have been helpful if HSDL had confirmed in response to the 
letters Mr B sent in October and November 2021, that he could place trades while his 
holdings were held on HSDLs platform. But I said I must also consider that in the letter 
HSDL sent to Mr B dated 4 October 2021, about the process for transferring holdings to 
HSDL, it said:
You can see information about our full range of share dealing services and register to trade 
online at www.halifaxsharedealing-online.co.uk
If you have any further queries regarding this transfer, please do not hesitate to call us on 
[number] and we will be pleased to help you with your enquiry.
I said that if Mr B had wanted to sell any holdings and was unsure whether he could do so, I 
thought he ought reasonably to have contacted HSDL to discuss placing a trade. I noted our 
investigator also referred to HSDLs terms and conditions. These set out how Mr B could 
place trades.
That said, I said I was mindful that Mr B expected his holdings to be transferred back to his 
other investment platform promptly. This was particularly the case given that HSDL had 
arranged the transfer in of all his holdings so promptly. 
I said I had taken this into account when considering the overall award for the trouble and 
upset this matter had caused Mr B.
I noted Mr B also said he did not give instructions to sell a holding that was sold in late 
January 2022. From the records I had seen I said it appeared that this holding was 
transferred back to the original investment platform in-specie. However, I said that if Mr B 
had anything to show that HSDL had sold this holding (for example a contract note from 
HSDL for the sale) I would, of course, re-consider this point.
redressHaving very carefully considered this matter my provisional decision was that HSDL should 
pay Mr B a total of £750 for the trouble and upset he had experienced. In determining this 
level of redress, I took into account:
- HSDLs failure to carry out Mr Bs clear instruction to transfer one holding to HSDL from his 
other investment platform provider
- HSDLs failure to identify its error
- HSDLs failure to promptly take steps to correct the error when Mr B notified it of its mistake 
in early October 2021
- HSDLs failure to acknowledge or respond to Mr Bs concerns in the letter he sent dated 26 
October 2021
- HSDLs failures in arranging the transfer of Mr Bs holdings back to the original investment 
platform provider promptly in late November 2021. In particular, I noted that it rejected the 
first request made by the other platform provider and then caused delays in approving the 
second request
- the further errors made by HSDL that, not unreasonably, led Mr B to think his holding in the 
M&G Dividend Fund had disappeared and not correcting this error for over two weeks.
I noted that HSDL had offered to pay Mr B a total of £400 for the problems it had caused. I 
said I didnt think this offer adequately reflected the worry and upset its poor service and 
errors had caused Mr B. Nor did the offer adequately reflect that HSDL failed to act promptly 
to put matters right for Mr B, or that once it took steps to return his holdings to his other 
investment platform it caused further delays and made more errors.
I said I understood that in his letter to HSDL dated February 2022, Mr B had included a 
cheque for £200, to repay the redress HSDL had credited to his bank account. I said it was 
not clear whether HSDL had presented this cheque from Mr B for payment.
I said that if Mr B could provide this service with evidence to show that the cheque was 
banked by HSDL (for example by providing an extract from the relevant bank statement 
showing the cheque was presented and the money withdrawn from Mr Bs account) then 
HSDL should pay Mr B £750 to resolve this complaint.
If HSDL had not banked the cheque, I said it should pay Mr B a further £550 to resolve this 
complaint.
HSDL did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr B did respond. He said he was not happy with the time it had taken to resolve his 
complaint, but he said he was willing to accept the £750 I had recommended to resolve this 
matter. Mr B kindly confirmed that he had checked his bank records and it appeared that the 
cheque for £200 he had sent to HSDL had not been presented for payment.
Mr B said he appreciated that some of the delays he had experienced in getting this matter 
resolved were due to HSDL failing to respond promptly to requests for information from this 
service. Mr B suggested that perhaps some punitive awards in the absence of effort from 
them might get them to have a little more respect for the Ombudsman Service.
Mr B also said he had suggested earlier in the process that increasing the trouble and 
inconvenience recompense would have been an easier way of overcoming the procrastinations of Halifax, and was told that this was not possible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as Mr B has accepted my provisional decision and HSDL has not 
responded or provided any fresh evidence or information, I find no basis to depart from my 
earlier conclusions.
I note the points Mr B has made in response to my provisional decision. I do understand why 
he feels punitive awards might be a useful tool for this service. However, this service does 
not have the power to fine or take disciplinary action against businesses, that is the role of 
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
With regard to the award I have made for the trouble and inconvenience Mr B has 
experienced, as I set out in my provisional decision, the award is intended to compensate Mr 
B for the very poor service he has received from HSDL. It was only after carefully 
considering the extent of the poor service he has experienced that I was able to determine 
the level of redress I considered to be fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
To put matters right Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr B a further £550, in 
addition to the £200 it has already paid him, for the trouble and upset its poor service has 
caused.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman