DRN-1640855
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, shouldve told them 
sooner that they could switch their mortgage account to a lower interest rate.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have an interest only mortgage with Halifax. The mortgage has several sub 
accounts. These were originally on tracker interest rates. 
By November 2013 the various tracker rates had expired and the entire outstanding 
mortgage balance had reverted to Halifaxs Standard Variable Rate (SVR). The mortgage 
remained on this rate until August 2019 when Mr and Mrs M spoke to Halifax to discuss 
making some changes to the mortgage and arranged a new fixed rate. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to Halifax that it hadnt made them aware or advised them 
previously that they could switch to a better interest rate. After switching to a new rate, Mr 
and Mrs M were paying approximately £200 per month less in interest. So, they were 
unhappy as they felt they couldve been benefitting from this saving for a number of years, 
and they couldve used that money to reduce the outstanding principle balance on their 
mortgage. 
Halifax said it wasnt obliged to tell customers about alternative rates and relies on account 
holders to contact it if they want to review their arrangements. So, it didnt think it had made 
an error in relation to the rate charged. It did though acknowledge that the customer service 
Mr and Mrs M received when complaining was poor and offered them £99 to address the 
upset caused by this and the call costs theyd incurred.
Mr and Mrs M asked our service to investigate their complaint about not having been 
informed of the other rates available to them by Halifax. They said that theyd been led to 
believe by Halifax that they couldnt change the interest rate as their mortgage was on an 
interest only basis.
An investigator considered the complaint. But he didnt think Halifax had done anything 
wrong in respect of the interest rates applied to the account. He also couldnt find any 
evidence to indicate Halifax had told Mr and Mrs M they werent eligible for alternative 
interest rates. And he thought the £99 paid by Halifax was a fair way to address the 
customer service issues Mr and Mrs M encountered. So overall, he didnt think Halifax 
needed to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs M asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Halifax, it needed to administer the account 
correctly on their behalf and provide them information about it, so that they could make 
informed decisions. Halifax has provided us with copies of the annual mortgage statements 
sent to Mr and Mrs M. Having reviewed these, I think Halifax provided them with clear, 
regular information about their mortgage balance and the interest rates applicable. So, I 
think it provided them with the information they needed. It also appears to have applied 
interest to the account at the correct rate  including the SVR after the expiry of the original 
tracker rates.
I dont however think Halifax needed to provide ongoing mortgage advice. Customers have 
varying needs and requirements which can change over time. And I dont think Halifax can 
reasonably be expected to anticipate what was best for Mr and Mrs M unprompted. Id only 
expect it to provide advice when this was requested.
I also dont think Halifax was obliged or required to tell Mr and Mrs M directly about other 
interest rate deals that may have been available to them. I can understand why Mr and 
Mrs M mayve preferred that it do so. But businesses are entitled to decide how they 
promote alternative accounts and interest rates, at their own discretion. Halifax has said that 
it doesnt market these directly to customers and instead makes information available online, 
in branch and by phone. Which I dont think is unreasonable. And this information wouldve 
been available to Mr and Mrs M had they contacted Halifax. 
In 2018 Halifax, along with other lenders, did commit to contact some customers that were 
on relevant SVRs to discuss the options available to them by the end of that year. But this 
was only customers who were ineligible to take a new rate. I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mr and Mrs M were ineligible to take a new rate - which I think is supported by them 
moving to a new rate in August 2019. So, this commitment didnt apply to them and they 
werent contacted.
So overall, I think its reasonable that Halifax wouldve expected Mr and Mrs M to approach it 
if they wanted advice or to change their interest rate deal and I dont think it was required to 
proactively promote rates to them or provide advice without this being requested.
Mr and Mrs M have said that they were given the impression by Halifax that they were 
unable to switch their interest rate due to their mortgage being on an interest only basis. 
Theyve said that they were told this by Halifax but couldnt recall exactly when or by whom.
Again, Ive reviewed the statements and regular information that Halifax sent to Mr and 
Mrs M. Having done so I havent seen anything in these documents that indicates Mr and 
Mrs M werent eligible for alternative interest rate deals. Ive also reviewed the contact notes 
Halifax holds in respect of the contact it has had with Mr and Mrs M about their mortgage 
since 2013, when the account switched to the SVR.  And again, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Halifax told Mr and Mrs M they couldnt apply for an interest rate switch  or in 
fact that it was asked about this. 
So, based on the information available to me, I dont think on balance I can say that Halifax 
provided Mr and Mrs M misleading information or said that they werent eligible to request a 
new rate. 
Halifax has acknowledged that, when Mr and Mrs M first contacted it to complain, the level of 
service provided in the phone calls wasnt up to the standard it expects. In particular it 
acknowledged they were left on hold for extended periods on multiple occasions. And I dont 
doubt this was frustrating for Mr and Mrs M. But overall, I think what Halifax has already 
done to put this right  paying them £99 for the upset caused and to contribute towards call 
costs  is a fair way to address this issue. Because of this, and as I dont think Halifax has made an error in relation to the interest rates applied or information provided, I wont be 
asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman