DRN-4212377
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited wrongly returned two payments 
to source, leaving her without funds for several weeks. She says too that it delayed providing 
confirmation that the funds had been returned. Ill refer to Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited by its trading name, Cashplus.
What happened
Mrs B operates as an independent consultant, and her clients include United Nations 
agencies. In early 2022 she was working on a project in the Maldives. She had sent two 
invoices in respect of that work, totalling around £15,000  for her fees and reimbursement 
of expenses. She had asked that payment be made to her Cashplus account. 
Two transfers were made from Bank of America, New York, to National Westminster Bank, 
London on 24 February 2022. National Westminster Bank is Cashpluss correspondent 
bank. Cashplus, however, declined to accept the payments. It instructed National 
Westminster Bank to return them to source. 
The payments were returned on 21 March 2022. A few days later, Cashplus provided Mrs B 
with written confirmation of the return of the funds. 
In the meantime, Mrs B says that she opened a new account with a different bank, so that 
the UN agency could re-send the payments (and pay a further invoice). The payments were 
re-issued. Mrs B received them on or about 14 April 2022, around seven weeks later than 
expected.
Mrs B complained about what had happened. Cashplus said that it does not accept 
payments from the Maldives. It only accepts payments from the countries listed on its 
website. Mrs B said that the payment was not from the Maldives; it came from an account 
held in New York. Cashplus said too that the funds had to be returned manually, and that it 
generally advises customers that this can take up to 30 days. It was, it said, right to return 
the funds; and it did not think there was an unreasonable delay in doing so.
Mrs B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She thought however that Cashplus was within its rights to decline the payments; 
she did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs B didnt accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue in dispute here is whether the money that Mrs B was to receive came from 
the Maldives (as Cashplus says) or from the USA, as she says. 
The Cashplus website  which Mrs B acknowledges she checked  includes a section called 
Help: International Payments. There follows a series of drop-down questions, which 
includes: What countries can I receive international payments into a Cashplus Account 
from?
The answer says: You can accept international payments originating in the following 
countries 
There follows a relatively short list of countries, including the USA but not including the 
Maldives. The only countries listed outside Europe are Australia, New Zealand, Canada, 
Japan, Taiwan, Singapore and the USA. 
The credit advice produced by National Westminster Bank in respect of the larger payment 
shows Mrs B as the beneficiary and Bank of America, New York, as the instructing bank. But 
it also shows that the payment was to be made by order of the UN agency, with an address 
in the Maldives. 
Mrs B is therefore correct to say that the payment came from a bank in the USA. I do not 
believe however that it can properly be said to have originated there. It originated where the 
payer was based, not where it held its bank account. The payer  that is, the organisation 
giving instructions to make the payment  was in the Maldives, and so that it where the 
payment can properly be said to have originated. 
For that reason, I think that Cashplus was entitled to decline the payment and return it to the 
sender. I appreciate that this may have caused Mrs B significant distress and put her to 
some inconvenience. I dont however believe that Cashplus acted inappropriately in 
returning the funds, so I cant properly require it to compensate her. 
I note too what Cashplus has said about the apparent delay in returning the money. In the 
circumstances, the timeframe does not seem to me to be unreasonable.         
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited  to take any further steps to resolve Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman