DRN-3045762
The complaint
Mr R complains about the credit limit provided to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard.
What happened
Mr R took a Barclaycard credit card in October 2016. Mr R was provided with a credit limit of 
£3,500. Mr R maintained payments to the account until November 2019 when he didnt 
make a payment. He missed the following months payment and Barclaycard defaulted the 
account in January 2019. 
Mr R complained to Barclaycard saying his credit limit had been increased despite the fact 
that he was only making minimum payments, and that he had other debts. Barclaycard 
responded to this complaint saying that Mr Rs credit limit had never been increased.
Mr R asked our service to look into the complaint saying he was now unhappy about the 
credit limit he was provided with when he first took the credit card. Our investigator said that 
Barclay card had assessed Mr Rs income and expenditure when considering how much to 
lend him. And whilst he noted that Barclaycard hadnt included all of Mr Rs other debts 
within his outgoings, he thought that, overall, Barclaycard had lent an amount which was 
affordable for Mr R. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed. He also said that Barclaycard had defaulted his account too early. Our 
investigator didnt agree so Mr R asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a bank is considering providing borrowing facilities to a consumer, it needs to carry
out checks which are proportionate and reasonable in relation to the amount being lent. 
In this situation, Barclaycard asked for information about Mr Rs income and expenditure. 
And it carried out checks using an external credit reference company. Its shown us evidence 
of this. The credit score, combined with the information Mr R provided about his income and 
expenditure, suggested to Barclaycard that Mr R could afford to take out this credit card. I 
think the checks carried out here were reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit 
being offered to Mr R. 
Like our investigator, Ive noted that there were certain borrowing commitments which 
Barclaycard didnt take into account when assessing this application. Its unclear why this 
was the case. But even if it had, I think it wouldve decided that this credit card limit was 
affordable to Mr R. The fact that Mr R was able to maintain payments generally until late in 
2019 suggests to me that the borrowing was affordable initially and for some time after. Im 
not sure what changed in Mr Rs situation which meant he was no longer able to afford the 
monthly payments. But Im satisfied the decision to grant the initial credit card limit was 
considered fairly and was initially affordable to Mr R.
Mr R has also complained that Barclaycard defaulted his account too early. I can see from 
the statements provided that Mr R missed a payment for both November and December 
2019. On 5 December 2019, Barclaycard wrote to Mr R asking him to bring his account up to 
date within a month and that, if he didnt, it would default the account. Mr R didnt make 
contact or payment, so the account was defaulted.
Usually, Id expect three months of payments to have been missed before a default is 
registered. Two months had already passed, with no payment being made, when 
Barclaycard wrote to Mr R explaining what would happen if further payment wasnt made. Mr 
R didnt make a payment in January and the default was applied. So it was applied of three 
months of missed payments. And Im satisfied Barclaycard was entitled to do this in the 
circumstances. 
Barclaycard did back date the default to the date of the first missed payment in November 
2019. This means it will come off Mr Rs credit file sooner. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman