DRN-2885651
The complaint
The estate of Mr R complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
declined its life insurance claim. 
The estates representatives, Mrs R and Mr R - the late Mr Rs wife and son, are being 
represented by their solicitor, but for ease Ill refer to all their actions as Mrs R. 
What happened
In April 2004 the late Mr R took out a single life, level term assurance policy with a sum 
assured of £120,000 through an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA). In the application Mr R 
answered No to the following question;
Have you smoked in the last 12 months?
Sadly, Mr R had to make a terminal illness claim to Royal London in April 2019 after being 
diagnosed with lung cancer which had spread to his brain. Royal London started to review 
the claim but very sadly, Mr R died in October 2019. So, Mrs R contacted Royal London to 
make a life insurance claim. 
Royal London reviewed the claim but didnt accept it. It said Mr R shouldve answered yes 
to the above question as the medical records from his GP showed that he had smoked in the 
twelve months before the application. It said that because the above question wasnt 
answered correctly, it was allowed to decline the claim, cancel the contract and return the 
premiums Mr R had paid. 
Mrs R remained unhappy, so she brought the complaint to this service. She said the late 
Mr R was a man of integrity and wasnt smoking in the twelve months prior to taking out the 
application. So, Royal London should accept and pay the claim in full. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in part. He said he was satisfied the late 
Mr R had carelessly misrepresented his smoking history when he applied for the policy. And 
because Royal London wouldve charged a higher premium if it had been told Mr R smoked, 
it should accept the claim and pay a proportionate settlement. 
Mrs R accepted the investigators recommendation, but Royal London disagreed. It said 
according to the medical records, the late Mr R was a smoker and there was no evidence 
from 2003 onwards that he was an occasional smoker or had previously quit smoking. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to pass on my condolences to Mrs R and her family. I was very sorry to read 
about Mr Rs illness and death. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator that this complaint should be partially upheld. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
As the sale of this policy was in 2004, Ive considered the Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) Code on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly (the Code).
So, the issues for me to consider are whether the late Mr R made a misrepresentation when 
taking out this policy, and if so, whether Royal London has shown it wouldnt have offered 
the policy at all or wouldve done on different terms.
Was there a misrepresentation in relation to Mr Rs smoking?
Mrs R has said the late Mr R was a man of integrity and wasnt smoking in the twelve 
months prior to taking out this policy. Our investigator said that he was satisfied Mr R 
shouldve told Royal London about his smoking when he applied for the policy. Mrs R has 
accepted the investigators opinion. But I wanted to briefly explain why I agree with the 
investigators reasons here. 
Its clear from the GPs medical records that the late Mr R was noted as being a smoker in 
July 2003 which was within twelve months of the application. After reviewing all the medical 
notes, Im satisfied he didnt answer the question correctly here.  
So, Ive now considered the most important part of this complaint which is whether Mr R 
carelessly, recklessly or deliberately misrepresented his medical history during the 
application. 
What would Royal London have done differently? 
Royal London said Mr Rs medical notes show that he recklessly and deliberately 
misrepresented his smoking history. But Im not satisfied there is enough evidence here to 
say the late Mr R recklessly or deliberately answered the above question. 
I cant see that within the twelve-month period prior to the application that Mr R was 
repeatedly warned about his smoking or had numerous appointments about his smoking 
habit. There was a note prior to the application in 1993 which mentioned Mr R smoking 
twenty to thirty-nine cigarettes a day. But the note in July 2003 didnt record how many 
cigarettes he was smoking or that he was given any medical advice to reduce this. 
Ive also considered that, sadly, Mr R is no longer able to give us a credible explanation on 
why he answered no to the smoking question. I can see in a consultant letter, dated 
15 April 2019, Mr R is noted as being an on/off smoker which does provide some evidence 
that he had tried to stop previously. But without a further statement from Mr R on why he 
answered the question the way he did or when he had stopped smoking, I dont believe I can 
fairly say he recklessly or deliberately told Royal London he wasnt a smoker. 
As a result, Im not satisfied  on balance  Mr R deliberately or recklessly answered the 
smoking question when applying for this policy. I believe he was careless when completing 
the application. Based upon the evidence Royal London has provided from its underwriting manual, Im 
satisfied it wouldve applied a higher premium here. And the Code allows Royal London to 
calculate how much of a deduction from the original sum assured it can make based upon 
the higher premium it wouldve applied. 
Ive reviewed the proportionate settlement Royal London has provided to this service. It has 
taken into account that a higher premium wouldve been paid in line with its underwriting 
guidance. And this underwriting guidance must be applied to all customers fairly and 
consistently. 
Putting things right
Mr R paid £167.88 a month for this policy but Royal London said this wouldve increased to 
£353.52. The calculation Royal London has used is in line with the Code (£167.88 / £353.52 
x £120,000). Royal London has said the sum assured based upon the smoker rates would 
be £56,985.74. And Im satisfied thats a fair offer here. 
Royal London should also add 8% simple interest to the proportionate settlement, and it is 
entitled to deduct any premiums it has already refunded from this sum. 
  
My final decision 
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited must do the following; 
1. Pay the estate of Mr R the proportionate settlement of £56,985.74 in line with the 
Code.
2. Royal London must add 8% simple interest per year to the above settlement from 
the date it provided its original claim decision until the date it makes the payment.
3. Royal London may deduct the premiums it is owed (if it has already refunded the 
premiums Mr R paid) from any payment due.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman