DRN-2573534
The complaint
Mrs Ps unhappy esure Insurance Limited have turned down a claim on her car insurance
policy.
Mrs P has two named drivers on her policy, and has used a representative to bring this
complaint, but for simplicity Ill mainly refer to Mrs P throughout.
  
What happened
In January 2021 I set out whatd happened in this complaint. I also explained what I was 
currently thinking, and that before I made reached my final decision, I needed to set out my 
reasoning and give both parties an opportunity to respond.
In March 2019 Mrs Ps car was being driven by a named driver on the policy when it was
noticed the car was losing power, and oil leaked onto the driveway once parked.
The car was taken to a specialist garage for this type of car, and a video was produced in
April 2019 of the affected area. The mechanic said on the video theyd filled the car back up
with oil, and showed the oil was leaking out. The mechanic went on to say oil is pouring out
the front cooler, and it looks like somethings pierced it.
In May 2019 Mrs Ps insurance was due for renewal, and I understand when this process
was taking place  and it became apparent how much the repairs would cost  she pursued
an insurance claim.
esure wrote to Mrs P on 5 June 2019, explaining theyd need the garage to send relevant
information. And esure said once the information had been received, they contacted Mrs P
to explain they were going to turn down her claim. But they said she didnt get back to them
for several weeks.
Once Mrs P became aware her claim was going to be turned down, she complained as she
felt the specialist garage had clearly said there was a pierce or puncture which led to the
issue. In the meantime, shed arranged for the repair to take place.
esure replied and said when a car is booked in for repair for a claim, its expected that the
repair process is documented. They said theyd have expected an estimate, and various
images of the vehicle, to be provided. This would then be reviewed by one of their
engineers, to determine if it should be covered under the insurance. The mechanic said the
oil cooler was damaged, but esures engineer couldnt see this on the video provided and
thought it was more likely wear and tear. The engineer asked the garage for more
information, but none was given. esure said they couldnt be expected to accept a claim,
when insufficient information hadnt been provided to prove the claim  and by not waiting for
approval before going ahead with the repairs Mrs P had prejudiced her position.
Unhappy with this Mrs P asked us to look into her complaint. In doing so she said when
esure replied to the claim they asked for estimates from the garage  this letter gave other
details but didnt say not to complete the repairs. So, she went ahead with the repairs after
not hearing anything for several weeks. Mrs P says her garage, a specialist in this make of
car, told her the questions esure was asking were unusual. But the garage provided a link to
a video showing oil pouring out of the car  and said the issue was not because of wear and
tear, there was a pierce / puncture in the tank, and this was verified by two of the garages
experts. Because of this, Mrs P believes an insured event has happened, and esure should
meet the claim.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He felt the video didnt show the puncture
in the tank the garage had referred to. He also said the timeline of events was unusual, as
the incident happened in March 2019, but no claim was made until June 2019. Because of
these points, he thought esure had turned down the claim fairly.
Mrs P though didnt accept this. She said the reason for the odd timeline is because she was
out of the country for most of March and April, and she didnt realise the full extent of the
damage until the end of May when her policy came up for renewal. She was also concerned
wed not said anything about the garages opinion on this issue and felt esure should have
been clearer if they wanted to consider things further. Instead, they just told Mrs P about the
additional costs, and took two months overall to turn the claim down.
Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that Id usually expect authorisation to be given before someone
arranges for a repair to their car when they expect to claim for that repair under their
insurance. And Id also usually expect the repair process to be fully documented, knowing
that an insurance claim might be made, with sufficient evidence to prove whats being
claimed for.
So, I do agree with esures points that theyve been denied the opportunity to carry out a full
inspection as Id usually expect. But that cant mean the claim is turned down if the evidence
that is available suggests it should be met.
The key evidence in this complaint is the video produced when Mrs Ps car was taken to the
garage. The mechanic quite clearly shows something has happened to the front cooler when
putting oil back into the car. It very clearly leaks through the pierce / puncture and judging by
the leak demonstrated its quite significant damage thats happened. Its not necessarily
clear on the video exactly whats happened  but the demonstration does prove something
has happened. And they refer to something piercing / puncturing the cooler which led to the
claim under the policy.
In addition, I note the garages mechanics did make it clear  both on the video, and in a
separate letter  there was a pierce / puncture. As they actually saw the car (and Ive seen
the corroborating video evidence), I find this persuasive.
I do accept esure may have concerns about not being able to see what happened, and that
the repair process wasnt documented as fully as theyd have liked. But, at the same time, I
do think the evidence from the garage is persuasive enough to suggest this wasnt wear and
tear.
Because of this Im satisfied based on all the evidence provided this was more likely than nota sudden insurable event which should have been covered under the policy terms  so I
currently plan to order esure to pay the claim subject to their usual policy terms. I also think
interest will need to be added to this amount as Mrs P is out of pocket as she had to pay the
claim herself  when it should have been paid by esure. This should be calculated from the
date Mrs P can show she paid the garage for the works done, to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
esure replied and said they didnt agree. In summary they said:
The policy terms say, when using a non-recommended repairer, that an estimate of 
the costs need to be provided and theyre only liable for repairs once theyve agreed 
this estimate.
Mrs P never provided them with any details included in the terms of the policy to let 
them make a decision in validating the claim.
As part of this process theyd expect an estimate to be provided with photos of the 
damage which would then be referred to their engineering department before any 
claim is accepted or repairs authorised  none of which was provided.
Despite no information being provided, their engineers still attempted to validate the 
claim, but couldnt see any insurable damage from the information provided.
The engineer got in touch with the repairer and asked for more information to help 
decide the claim, but none could be provided.
My decision says Im planning to order esure to pay the claim as per the policy terms, 
but this ignores the terms of the policy Mrs P accepted.
Mrs P replied, and said she accepted my provisional decision. She also said she felt esure 
werent being genuine, because she did contact them with estimates. She added it wasnt 
clear when first taking her car to the garage what the issue was, and it was only when 
adding new fluids to the car they discovered the problem. And by taking her car to the 
garage she did, it resulted in cheaper parts being used than at a main dealer. Overall, she 
felt esure were now arguing more about the process, than the damage itself.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision, above, that Id usually expect the repair process to be 
documented  and for authorisation given before repairs were completed. Ive taken on 
board Mrs Ps comments above, but it doesnt appear to be in dispute that the repairs were 
carried out before esure said Mrs P could. So I dont disagree with esure on this point, as I 
think its a valid point theyre making. But, as Ive also said, if the evidence Ive seen means 
Im satisfied an insurable event has happened, then on a fair and reasonable basis its 
appropriate to settle the claim.
Ive reconsidered all of esures points, but I remain of the opinion its appropriate for the 
claim to be paid in this instance.
I have noted esures concerns about the policy terms effectively saying they wont meet 
claims when using a non-approved repairer if information isnt provided to them before the 
repairs take place. I understand this, but I note esure did attempt to establish whether an 
insurable event had taken place  despite knowing they werent going to get all the relevant 
information set out in the policy terms. So, I do think esure were acting fairly and reasonably in doing this  and overall I also think its fair and reasonable to still consider the claim in the 
absence of this information.
I know esures engineers remain of the opinion theres no insurable event. But I cant ignore 
the evidence from the time of the incident itself. The mechanics who saw the car said it was 
a pierce / puncture  the video shows quite a significant leak which suggests the same thing 
 and backs up what the mechanics said on the video. The mechanics saw the car, which is 
evidenced by the video and thats supported by their follow up letters, so I think its 
reasonable to rely on that.
For that reason, Im satisfied its appropriate to say an insurable event has happened, and 
esure need to pay out on the claim as per the policy terms. To clarify  by this I mean as per 
their policy terms for paying out on a claim.
Putting things right
I order esure to:
Pay the claim as per the policy terms for meeting a claim
Add 8% interest from the date Mrs P paid the garage, to the date of settlement*
*HM Revenue and Customs requires esure to deduct tax from the interest payment referred
to above. esure must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if she
asks them for one.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order esure Insurance Limited to carry out the
actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman