DRN-3146506
The complaint
Mr H complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Privilege Breakdown, caused 
damage to his car when they attended it under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
On 15 January 2021 Mr Hs car broke down while his wife was driving it. Mr H said his wife 
called UKI who came out, identified the issue was the battery and replaced it. She said the 
battery had been replaced while the engine was running, causing damage to the Electronic 
Control Units (ECU). UKI disputed their agent would have done this, as it was a basic 
procedure that anyone with experience would know not to replace the battery with the 
engine running. They suggested Mr H get reports to show they were responsible. Mr H says 
hes done that, paying £202 to do so, but theyve still not accepted responsibility.
UKI said theyd got a written statement from the agent who attended Mr Hs car  and they 
said they didnt leave the engine running and know not to do this because it can cause 
damage. They said Mr H had provided a report from a garage dated 10 February 2021, 
which shows fault codes were present. Although cleared, they reappeared and then an auto 
electrician was required. UKI said the invoice from the garage showed the reason for the 
fault was due to the engine running while the battery was replaced  but when calling the 
garage, theyd said Mr H told them this, so theyd noted it on the invoice. 
The faults persisted, and the auto electrician looked at Mr Hs car on 19 February 2021. 
They cleared the codes, but the fault remained. UKI asked Mr H to get a garage report 
showing the damage and the cause of that damage. They said as their agent disputes 
replacing the battery while the engine was running, they need this to say their agent was 
responsible. UKI said if Mr H wasnt happy, he could ask us to look into things.
Mr H then contacted us, saying he thought hed done all he could, and asked us to look into 
things. Later on, Mr H discovered the cost of repairs for the ECUs were up to £1,200. He 
found his car was worth around £1,000  so he ended up selling his car for scrap  receiving 
£280 as hed already been told by UKI they wouldnt be paying for anything at this point.
One of our Investigators looked into things. She didnt think Mr H could have done anything 
further regarding garage reports, but also couldnt categorically say UKI were fully 
responsible. She felt a fair outcome was for UKI to refund Mr H the £202 hed paid for the 
reports, 8% interest on that amount, and half the estimated cost of the repairs at £600.
Mr H accepted this, but UKI didnt. They replied and said their technical engineer explained:
In my professional opinion with 30 years experience in the breakdown industry any 
technician even with basic electrical training would know and be completely aware that there 
is absolutely no reason to have the engine running whilst changing the battery on the vehicle 
as it would cause damage to the ECUs.
If the engine was running whilst changing the battery Im sure the vehicles alternator would 
have increased the charge rate so high it would have spiked the ECUs immediately and the 
vehicle would cut out and most likely not start.
As UKI didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wasnt present when the battery was replaced on Mr Hs car, so I cant know for certain 
what actually happened. That means I need to decide what I think is more likely than not, 
taking into account all the information Ive got thats available.
Ive thought very carefully about UKIs technical engineers explanation about why they dont 
agree. I have noted his points, but all of this relies on UKIs agent not having made a mistake 
in keeping the engine running while replacing the battery. As we all know, mistakes can and 
do happen.
Ive seen that agents comments  that theyre an experienced mechanic and have 
categorically denied changing the battery with the engine running as they know not to do 
this.
But, as far as I can see its not in dispute there were no issues with the ECUs prior to the 
breakdown and UKIs agent attending to Mr Hs car. The only fault identified was with the 
battery. That, in itself, could reasonably suggest something has happened which has led to 
these issues.
In addition, Ive seen that when UKIs technical engineer spoke to Mr Hs garage, both 
agreed that the fault codes being read from the car could be an indication of the battery 
having been changed while the engine was running.
I dont have enough information to say UKIs agent has clearly caused this, but neither do I 
have enough to reasonably say they didnt.
With that in mind, Im satisfied its appropriate to require UKI to take further action. Our 
Investigator recommended they refund Mr H the cost of the two reports he got, which came 
to £202. She also recommended they pay 8% interest on this amount as hed been denied 
the money. For the car, she felt a refund of half the cost of replacing the ECUs at £600 was 
fair. Given the circumstances Ive outlined above, I also think this is a fair and reasonable 
way to put matters right for Mr H  he got the reports at UKIs request and refunding half the 
cost of the potential repairs reflects that I cant say definitively whether UKI caused all of the 
issues Mr H experienced.  
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Refund Mr H the cost of the reports at £202
Pay 8% interest* from the date of each payment, to the date of settlement
Pay Mr H £600 towards the cost of potential repairs*HM Revenue and Customs requires UKI to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. UKI must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he asks 
them for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint, and require 
U K Insurance Limited, trading as Privilege Breakdown, to carry out the actions in the 
Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman