DRN-4018290
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) is refusing to refund him the amount he lost 
as the result of a scam
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr B received a call from a business called Options XO (X). Mr B had been 
searching for investment options at the time and X outlined an opportunity to him. X 
explained Mr B could start by investing a small amount of money.
X continued to communicate with Mr B persuading his to make more and more payments 
into the investment.
The balance of Mr Bs trading account soon fell to zero and X tried to persuade Mr B to 
make further payments which he refused to make.
Mr B made the following payments to X using his debit card:
Date Amount Payment method
22 April 2016 £720 Debit card
27 April 2016 £300 Debit card
15 July 2016 £2,000 Debit card
28 July 2016 £500 Debit card
29 July 2016 £1,007 Debit card
8 August 2016 £500 Debit card
Mr B has been unable to recover any of the payments he sent to X.
Our Investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint he said Lloyds should have stepped in when Mr B 
made the first payment into the scam, and its likely it would have been able to prevent Mr 
Bs loss. 
Lloyds didnt agree so this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr B and Lloyds set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Lloyds should 
refund any of the money Mr B has lost because of this scam.
Recovery of the payments
Lloyds was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr B made in relation to this 
scam to X via debit card.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr B made payments into the scam between April and August 2016 and although he tells us 
he brought details of the scam to Lloyds at the time I havent seen enough evidence to 
support this. The information provided by both sides suggests Mr B made his complaint to 
Lloyds outside of the timescales allowed to apply for a chargeback of the payments he had 
made.
Should Lloyds have prevented the payments in the first place?
Mr B has accepted he authorised the payments he made to X, so the starting point here is 
that Mr B is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do 
have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Lloyds should have stepped in when Mr B was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
When considering this for Mr Bs case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being
fraudulent.
Lloyds has argued that it should not reasonably have been required to update its systems to 
include the warnings set out by the IOSCO as a trigger in its fraud prevention methods.
I disagree. As long ago as June 2012, the then regulator, indicated  in its consultation 
paper Banks Defence Against Investment Fraud; detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to put together an updated watch-list of 
types of scams and potential scammers; and to regularly share timely and detailed 
intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police etc. While the 
regulator didnt give any indication of when those watchlists ought to be updated, its not 
unreasonable to expect an international bank, like Lloyds, to update those lists, and 
communicate with staff, within a month of an alert being published by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) or IOSCO.
Such alerts should automatically trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and lead to 
payments being paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries of the 
customer about the payment or giving a scam warning. Here, there were IOSCO alerts about 
X published by: the Ontario Securities Commission on 25 November 2014; the Financial 
Services and Markets Authority in Belgium on 19 December 2014; and the Financial Market 
Authority on 11 February 2015. These alerts were published more than a month before Mr B 
made his first payment to X.Given the timing of these and when Mr B made his first payment, Lloyds ought to have 
automatically blocked it pending further checks  in my view it had sufficient time to update 
its watch-list. The bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee might not be a 
legitimate merchant. It would have also been reasonable for Lloyds to have asked Mr B 
appropriate probing questions before releasing the payment.
Had Lloyds stepped in when Mr B made the first payment to X I see no reason why Mr B 
would not have been honest about the reasons he was making the payment, and had Lloyds 
asked further question I think its likely Lloyds would have uncovered the scam Mr B was 
falling victim to and prevented any loss.
Did Mr B contribute to his loss?
I think this was a sophisticated scam and Mr B couldnt have reasonably foreseen that he
was dealing with a scammer. X built confidence with Mr B over several weeks and Mr B had 
not made this type of investment before. X came across very professional and did not cause 
Mr B to have any suspicions that the investment was not genuine.
Overall, I dont think Mr M contributed to his losses, so I dont suggest the overall settlement
be reduced.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should refund all the payments Mr B made in relation to the scam. To 
compensate Mr B for having been deprived of this money, Lloyds Bank PLC should also pay 
Mr B interest on the loss at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of loss to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right by doing what Ive 
outlined above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman