DRN-2895459
The complaint
Mrs W and Miss W are unhappy that their mortgage with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc was 
transferred to a new five-year fixed rate product in October 2020. 
They say they didnt give their broker the authority to make that change and they dont think 
the rate is competitive.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The rate change application was undertaken by a broker who declared that they were 
acting on behalf of Mrs W and Miss W. The broker is an independent third party so 
we cant hold The Mortgage Works liable for any acts or omissions on the part of the 
broker. If Mrs W and Miss W would like to complain about the actions of the broker, 
then theyd need to make their complaint to the broker directly.
The Mortgage Works was entitled to act on the declaration it received from the 
broker, that being that Mrs W and Miss W:
oHad received a copy of the product switch offer.
oAccepted the terms of that offer.
oAuthorised the broker to accept the product switch on their behalf.
Once the mortgage was moved to the new product on 1 October 2020 there was no 
right of cancellation. If Mrs W and Miss W want to come out of the interest rate 
product then they will need to pay the early repayment charge to end the contract 
early (as set out in the product transfer offer of 11 September 2020).
In terms of this complaint, I would only look to order The Mortgage Works to release 
Mrs W and Miss W from the contract without them needing to pay the early 
repayment charge if I was satisfied it had done something wrong and, having 
considered everything, I cant say The Mortgage Works did anything wrong here.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs W and Miss Ws frustration, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman