DRN-1632656
 
The complaint
Ms L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax ("Halifax") acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by failing to tell her that she could pay more towards her interest only 
mortgage to clear the debt in full. Ms L also complains that she never understood how much 
she'd have to pay at the end of the mortgage term. She wants matters put right.
What happened
Ms L took out an interest only mortgage with Halifax in 2004 - it was a retirement home plan. 
Within the mortgage offer accepted by Ms L in 2004, Halifax told her that it was an interest 
only mortgage and the monthly payment wouldn't reduce the debt owed at the end of the 
mortgage term, which needed to be paid 40 years after the mortgage taken out. The 
mortgage was repaid in 2017.
Ms L later complained that Halifax failed to tell her that she could pay more to reduce the 
debt owed at the end of the term and that it wasn't explained to her how much would be 
owed by the end. Ms L complained to Halifax. It said the mortgage had been taken out 
without formal advice from Halifax, but it had given Ms L all the information about the 
mortgage such as the terms and conditions and a booklet which told her she could make 
overpayments. Halifax said that in 2010 and 2013 when Ms L changed her mortgage product 
and borrowed more, she was again told that she could make overpayments in the 
information she was given, but as she wasn't advised it was her choice to proceed.
Ms L complained to us. The investigator's view was that the complaint shouldn't be upheld 
as Halifax wasn't at fault. He noted that Ms L never talked to Halifax about whether she 
could make overpayments, and that it had provided her information several times which 
included information about the possibility of making overpayments in the mortgage offer, in 
the terms and conditions and the guidance booklet. The investigator observed that Ms L had 
said she hadn't reviewed this information, but that wasn't Halifax's fault.
Ms L disagreed. She felt that she'd been unfairly treated and asked for an ombudsman's 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service wouldn't expect a lender to contact a borrower and offer unsolicited general 
advice about mortgages. What is required is that a lender gives a borrower accurate 
information about their mortgage, so they can make a choice about whether to proceed. Ms 
L wasn't formally advised about any of her mortgage products by Halifax so it really was a 
matter for her to review the information provided and to make a decision as whether the 
mortgage was suitable to meet her needs.Having reviewed the evidence available to me, I'm satisfied that Halifax did provide accurate 
information within the mortgage and product offers, terms and conditions and guidance 
booklet to Ms L. Within the information provided, it told Ms L about her right to make 
overpayments and how much would be owed at the end of her lifetime mortgage if she kept 
up to date with the interest payments. And Halifax gave Ms L this information more than 
once.
I appreciate that Ms L says she didn't review the information, but that isn't something for 
which Halifax is at fault. It provided accurate and sufficient information, so I can't say that it's 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. I also can't say that Halifax prevented Ms L from making 
overpayments as there's no evidence of this; I note that Ms L at one point mentioned that 
she was struggling to pay the monthly payment and moved into a relative's home.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 
16 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman