DRN-1906588
The complaint
Mrs P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited hasnt considered a 
section 75 claim when she complained about damaged goods.
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs P purchased a microwave from a third-party retailer. The purchase price 
was £697, and she paid for it with her Amex card.
When the microwave was delivered to Mrs P, she was still renovating the kitchen, so she put 
it in the garage. She says she looked in the box but didnt remove the protective packaging.
In July 2019 Mrs P removed the microwave from its packaging to install it. She noticed that 
the glass door was shattered. She took pictures of the damage and reported it to the 
merchant. The merchant refused to give Mrs P a refund because it said Mrs P hadnt 
reported the damage soon enough after delivery.
Mrs P contacted Amex, who initiated a chargeback dispute. The purchase price was credited 
to Mrs Ps account, but this was later debited because the merchant provided documents to 
show that Mrs P shouldve reported the damage within 48 hours of delivery.
Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. She wasnt happy with the outcome of the 
chargeback and felt that Amex shouldve reviewed her claim under section 75.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he didnt think Amex had done anything 
wrong in its handling of the chargeback because Mrs P had reported the damage outside of 
the time limit. In relation to section 75, the investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to 
show that the microwave was delivered to Mrs P with the glass already smashed.
Mrs P didnt agree. She said she hadnt been made aware of the term requiring her to report 
any damage within 48 hours at the time of entering into the contract. She said shed signed 
the delivery note as uninspected. She provided a photo of the box which the microwave was 
delivered in and aid it was in perfect condition, so the microwave mustve been damaged 
before it was sent to her. She also provided an email from another electrical supplier which 
said it had previously received complaints about smashed glass on this appliance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a scheme which gives the consumer the opportunity to get money back if the 
goods supplied are faulty, or not delivered, or if a service wasnt provided. Chargeback 
works in a similar way to section 75 but it isnt a legal requirement and is subject to the credit 
card issuers own rules.
A merchant can dispute a chargeback if it thinks the transaction is legitimate. In Mrs Ps 
case, the merchant provided documents to Amex which showed that the damaged goods 
had to be reported within 48 hours of delivery. Mrs P doesnt think this requirement is 
enforceable because she says she wasnt made aware of it at the time of entering into the 
contract. Shes provided the merchants terms and conditions which she says were available 
online at the time of entering into the contract. These say she has a right to a full refund if 
the fault is discovered within 30 days.
Mrs P acknowledges that she didnt report the damage until after 30 days had passed. So, I 
dont think it matters whether she was aware of the 48 hours time limit or not because she 
reported the fault outside of the first 30 days which is a time limit she was  or ought 
reasonably to have been - aware of. Because of this, I dont think Amex has acted unfairly in 
its handling of the chargeback.
Ive considered whether Mrs P might have a claim under section 75. Under section 75, Mrs P 
would have a like for like claim against Amex as she does against the supplier for breach of 
contract. For the purposes of section 75, there is a breach of contract where goods that have 
been paid for arent supplied or arent of satisfactory quality.
The way in which this service approaches section 75 is to look at what happened and 
assess whether there are grounds for a claim under section 75.
Mrs P says the microwave door was smashed when she unpacked it. In order to uphold the 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the door was 
smashed when the microwave was delivered, and not smashed afterwards i.e. between 
delivery and unpacking the box around a month later.
Ive looked at the pictures provided by Mrs P and by Amex. Its clear that the glass is 
smashed. Mrs P has said that the fact that theres no damage to the box suggests that the 
door was smashed before the item was dispatched to her. However, I dont think its 
reasonable to make this assumption. Its possible that an impact caused the glass door to 
smash without damaging the box. Its also possible that the door was smashed by an impact 
which occurred whilst the gods were in Mrs Ps possession.
Mrs P has said she didnt inspect the goods on delivery. Theres a dispute about whether 
she wrote uninspected on the delivery note but I dont think this makes a difference to the 
overall outcome here. What I would say is that, if she signed the delivery note as 
uninspected, Mrs P would have seen the 48 hour returns policy printed on the note. So, I 
would have expected her to inspect the goods within this time period. But as well as this, I 
think that a consumer ought reasonably to inspect goods within a reasonable time of them 
being delivered, especially fragile items or those containing glass. Mrs P has said it would 
have been difficult for her to do this due to the size of the item. However, Im not persuaded 
that it wouldve caused her significant difficulty to inspect the item for damage.
Ive looked at the email from the third-party electrical retailer. Whilst this says that similar 
microwaves have suffered smashed glass doors, Im only able to look at the circumstances 
of this particular complaint. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the door was smashed when it was delivered.
Amex shouldve investigated the section 75 claim. But Im of the view that had it done so, it 
wouldnt have been required to do anything because there isnt enough evidence to show 
that the microwave was damaged on delivery.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
 My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman