DRN-3309879
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain, through a claims management company (CMC), that 
Lloyds Bank PLC provided unsuitable investment advice in 2001 when it recommended Mr S 
to invest in a Unit Trust ISA - Worldwide Growth (ISA).
What happened
In January 2001, Mr and Mrs S met with Lloyds financial adviser. Amongst other 
recommendations (which are not part of this complaint) following discussions with the 
adviser, Mr S was advised to invest in a Unit Trust Individual Savings Account (ISA) which 
offered the opportunity of capital growth over the medium to long term.
Acting on that advice, Mr S invested £7,000 in Scottish Widows Worldwide Growth Fund 
which was rated medium risk by Lloyds and aimed to provide long term growth. He 
surrendered the plan in April 2012 making a loss of around £1,267.
Mr and Mrs S mainly complain that as Mr Ss previous experience was in lower risk 
investment and his circumstances had not particularly changed since he met with the adviser 
in 1995, he should not have been advised to take a medium-high risk investment and should 
have been advised to only consider a lower risk investment. The CMC said that if his attitude 
to risk had been properly assessed through either risk profiling tools, basic questioning, or a 
combination of both this would have been apparent. 
In response, Lloyds mainly said its adviser had carried out a detailed fact find when he 
gathered information about Mr Ss circumstances and he had recommended an investment 
that was suitable for his needs. 
Lloyds said Mr S was an experienced investor by then  he had already held an investment, 
a Personal Equity Plan (PEP), which he kept for at least five years. And that the Worldwide 
Growth Fund was a medium risk fund that was suitable for an investor with Mr Ss 
experience.
Lloyds said the adviser wouldve discussed options with Mr S and his attitude to investment 
risk and taken into account Mr Ss circumstances including his future objectives and planned 
expenditure. In support of its view that the adviser had properly considered Mr Ss future 
needs and objectives Lloyds pointed to the fact that Mr S had kept his investment for 
11 years.
Mr S wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to us. 
Where complaints concern an event that happened more than six years ago, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant always look into what happened. Our investigator first considered 
whether the complaint was in our jurisdiction and was satisfied, as Lloyds had given its 
consent to us investigating Mr Ss complaint, this was a complaint he could look at.
After considering the complaint, based on all the information he had seen, the investigator 
didnt feel this was a complaint he could recommend upholding. He thought that the 
investment advice provided by Lloyds wasnt unsuitable based on Mr Ss circumstances. His 
view was that Mr S had the capacity to invest £7,000 in a risk based asset to achieve his 
investment objective and the recommended fund wasnt too risky  particularly as it formed 
only a part of a bigger and well diversified portfolio. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. On their behalf, the CMC mainly said: 
Mr S had some investment experience but this was the first time he had been 
encouraged to take any form of investment based in overseas equities.
Whilst he held some shares these were based in the utilities following their 
privatisation at discount to their true valuation to encourage public ownership of these 
under the Thatcher administration. There was no speculation or buying and selling of 
shares at market value so the shares owned were as low risk as possible within 
equity investments when they were purchased.
It didnt agree with the medium risk rating for this fund  it suggested it should be 
considered at least Medium-High risk.
Mr Ss overall portfolio left the bulk of his capital at risk following investment  over 
55% at medium risk or higher.
This over-exposure was also inappropriate due to Mr Ss employment situation  he 
was in temporary work at the time following redundancy and his future work 
prospects werent guaranteed or secure. 
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules under which we operate can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. These say that unless a business consents or there are exceptional 
circumstances we cant consider a complaint that has been brought more than six years 
after the event complained about or, if later, more than three years after the complainant was 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of a cause for complaint. 
Lloyds has consented to us looking into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about what happened in 
2001 when it recommended this plan to Mr S, so I am satisfied that I can consider the 
complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint. Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
When thinking about whether Lloyds gave Mr S suitable investment advice on this occasion, 
keeping in mind that all investment carries some degree of financial risk, Ive thought about 
the following key questions:
were Mr and Mrs S in a strong enough financial position for Mr S to be able to invest? 
If so, thinking in particular about the amount invested and the investment risk, was 
the investment advice Lloyds provided suitable?With this approach in mind, Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Ss financial situation when 
Lloyds provided investment advice and made this fund recommendation to Mr S. 
Ive looked carefully at the point of sale paperwork that Lloyds has provided, including the 
Fact Find carried out by Lloyds financial adviser at the time. Theres no detailed expenditure 
information. However, theres nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs Ss living costs and other 
financial needs and requirements werent covered out of income. They didnt foresee any 
large expenses coming up or have any big spending plans for their money. 
Together Mr and Mrs S owned their own home (free from any mortgage). Mrs S wasnt in 
paid work. She owned some shares and she received a small half-yearly income from an 
investment in her name.
Mr S was planning to work at least another 12 years or so before he hoped to retire. He told 
the adviser he had just started a new job (on a lower income than he had previously) but 
confirmed he was employed full-time with a net monthly of £1,000 per month. He said he 
was seeking investment advice because he had recently received a lump sum from 
redundancy and from an occupational pension scheme. 
Mr and Mrs S held £35,530 in a joint deposit account. 
Mr S held a PEP in which he had invested £9,000 in 1994 which the Fact Find records had a 
current value (at the time of the sale) of £8,966 and from which he received a half-yearly 
income. He also held shares valued at £10,000. 
Mrs S held a PEP valued at £6,332, a unit trust valued at £1,805 (both investments having 
been made in 1994) and shares valued at £1,400.
Looking at the size of the assets they held, I think it's fair to say that Mr and Mrs S had 
sufficient financial resources which made them able to absorb some element of loss in 
pursuit of capital growth. In other words, they were able to take some element of risk when 
investing, as the CMC has acknowledged. 
I also consider that Mr and Mrs S were able to invest £7,000 as part of their joint overall 
investment plans. 
From the point of sale paperwork Lloyds has provided, it looks like Mr and Mrs S described 
having a medium risk appetite and their shared objective was capital growth. In contrast, 
their CMC states that Lloyds should only have recommended lower risk investments to them, 
and that investment in the Worldwide Growth Fund represented too great a risk. 
I think it was reasonable to recommend a risk-based investment to Mr and Mrs S and the 
CMC appears to accept this too. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the fund recommended was too risky for Mr S  which 
seems to me to be the crux of this complaint. 
I agree that a clients experience of managing money is something that the adviser should 
consider when advising on investments. And I agree that Mr and Mrs Ss investment 
experience wasnt extensive. But they were aware from their experience, particularly with 
Mr Ss existing PEP, that their investments wouldnt necessarily make money for them within 
a given time frame  or at all. And the fact alone that someone might be a relatively inexperienced investor doesnt 
automatically mean that they should only ever be advised to invest in low risk or no risk 
investments. That could unfairly deprive a person of investment potential and the opportunity 
to choose to risk more for the chance of a higher gain.   
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I think that it is more likely than not that 
Lloyds would have told Mr and Mrs S that the Worldwide Growth Fund was medium risk, as 
this was its description in Lloyds fund brochure from the time.
The CMC doesnt agree with the medium risk rating for this fund. However, based on Mr Ss 
recorded investment objectives and his circumstances recorded at the point of sale, my view 
is that the fund Lloyds recommended to him was suitable for his needs at the time. It gave 
Mr S the possibility of achieving capital growth over the medium term at a level of risk that 
overall I consider was appropriate, taking into account his full financial position and his aims.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account how Mr Ss investment in this ISA fitted in 
with Mr and Mrs Ss overall investment position  and whether, as the CMC has suggested, 
it tipped the balance towards too much exposure to risk or meant their overall risk exposure 
didnt properly reflect a level of risk that felt comfortable for Mr and Mrs S. But I dont feel 
that it did. I think this investment recommended for Mr S, as part of their overall portfolio, 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs. And based on Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances as 
recorded at the time, Im not persuaded Lloyds investment advice to Mr S was unsuitable.
All in all, this leads me to conclude that I havent seen enough to make me think that the 
£7,000 investment in Scottish Widows Worldwide Growth Fund was too risky for Mr S or 
otherwise unsuitable. 
If I have not referred to each point that the CMC has raised its because I have nothing 
further I can usefully add to what our investigator has said already. I have concentrated on 
what I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this complaint. I appreciate 
that the outcome for Mr and Mrs S is disappointing but I hope that setting things out as I've 
done helps to explain how I have reached my decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman