DRN-3248241
The complaint
L Ltd, represented by Mrs O, complained because HSBC UK Bank plc closed its client 
account.
What happened
L Ltd had three accounts with HSBC: a business account, a savings account, and a client 
account. The client account was opened in 2007.
From late 2019 onwards, HSBC contacted L Ltd and asked questions about the nature of the 
business, and the client account. Mrs O said that HSBCs representative rang about nine 
times and made two visits to the office, staying a long time and asking the same questions.
On 10 September 2020, HSBC wrote to L Ltd. It said that it could no longer provide a client 
deposit account. It explained that this followed a thorough review of the business and 
professional registration. HSBC said that Client Deposit Accounts can only be held by 
regulated businesses or those registered with a designated professional body, who are 
required to hold money on behalf of their parties/clients.
So the letter said that the client account would be closed with two months notice, in line with 
clause 29 of the business banking terms and conditions. The account was closed on 14 
November.
In its final response to L Ltds complaint in January 2021, HSBC said that after thorough 
review, it had decided to exit L Ltds client deposit account, and unfortunately this decision 
couldnt be overturned. 
L Ltd, represented by Mrs O, complained to this service. L Ltd said that HSBC had provided 
the client account in 2007, and it had never lied to or misled HSBC, providing every 
document HSBC asked for. Closing the account would mean restructuring and would be 
very expensive, and Mrs O said she didnt know how she could do this in the middle of a 
pandemic. She said shed allowed HSBC staff to ask her the same questions over and over 
again, for ten months. 
L Ltd also said that HSBC had known all the circumstances when it had opened the account 
in 2007. Mrs O said that the HSBC representative had told her the account had been opened 
by mistake in 2007. She said L Ltd shouldnt have to pay for HSBCs mistake, and for closing 
the account HSBC must pay £30,000 compensation for the impact.
Our investigator didnt uphold L Ltds complaint. He said the terms and conditions of the 
account allowed HSBC to close the account, without giving a reason, provided it gave 60 
days notice. He said that HSBC regularly reviews its customer base, to ensure it was 
comfortable continuing to allow customers access to certain accounts, 
and L Ltd had been chosen for a review. The account had been closed as a result.
L Ltd wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsmans decision. For L Ltd, Mrs O said that it 
wasnt as simple as HSBC being able to close any account it wants. She said the 
investigators decision just empowered HSBC to get away with harassment. She said she 
was certain this was about race, as everything had been fine until L Ltds account manager 
changed. She said HSBC was discriminating against L Ltd because it was from a country 
abroad and did a lot of business in that country. She said that it was doing nothing illegal or 
wrong and our investigator was enabling racism.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of L Ltds client account. As set out in HSBCs letter 
giving L Ltd notice of the closure, section 29 sets out how HSBC can end the agreement, 
withdraw services and close the account. The section relevant to L Ltd, where HSBC gave 
notice, says:
We may close an account or withdraw any service by giving you at least two months 
notice.
HSBC did give L Ltd two months notice, closing the client account on 14 November. So 
HSBC acted in line with the terms and conditions.
HSBC didnt have to give L Ltd a reason  in the same way that account holders can close 
their accounts without giving a reason. But here, HSBC did, saying that it was because client 
accounts can only be held by regulated businesses or those registered with a designated 
professional body. 
Banks can conduct reviews of accounts at any time, so HSBC was entitled to carry out the 
review of its relationship with L Ltd, just as it was entitled to close the client  account. I cant 
say whether or not a client account should have been opened in 2007  for one thing, 
records dont have to be kept indefinitely, and its now a long time ago. But this complaint is 
about the closure, and whatever happened in 2007 doesnt affect whether or not HSBC did 
anything wrong by closing the account in 2020. HBC was entitled to close the account, and it 
gave the relevant notice set out in the terms and conditions to which L Ltd had signed up. 
So I find that HSBC didnt do anything wrong.
Finally, in her response to the investigators view, Mrs O said that she was certain the 
account had been closed because of race discrimination. This service is governed by rules 
set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). One of those rules is that we 
can only consider issues about which the consumer has already complained to the business. 
Here, Ive seen nothing to show that L Ltd ever complained to HSBC that it had taken its 
decision because of the race of Mrs O. So its not open to this service to consider this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman