DRN-3885721
The complaint
Mr D, representing the estate of his late wife Mrs D, complains about the service he received 
in a Nottingham Building Society (NBS) branch when arranging the closure of Mrs Ds 
account.
What happened
Mr D says he was treated inappropriately when he attend a meeting to close his late wifes 
account. He is unhappy with the lack of clarity about NBSs requirements for how the 
Indemnity Closure Form (ICF) had to be completed; that the manager insisted a trainee was 
present; and that the manager tried to sell him an ISA at this time. Mr D wants £250 
compensation, split equally between a hospital charity and himself.
NBS offered a goodwill payment of £50. It said it had gone outside the standard process to 
help Mr D as the ICF was not completed in full, and it had also fedback to the branch what 
the requirements are. It said the branch recalled that Mr D had agreed to the trainee being 
there, but it recognised the service overall was not at the level Mr D expected. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. She said NBS had upheld Mr Ds 
complaint and provided the relevant feedback to the branch which was a fair response. But 
we cannot order it to increase the compensation as we cannot award distress and 
inconvenience payments to the representative of an estate. Or impose financial penalties on 
a business.
Mr D did not agree with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He did not 
provide specific reasons at this stage but I note the following points, amongst others, he had 
made previously to explain his dissatisfaction  the staff were condescending; it was 
presented to him that the trainee needed to be there; he had shown no interest in investment 
advice; a customer ought not have to correct NBSs failure to make clear the completion 
requirements of the ICF; and he asked how can this service police regulated businesses if 
we have no power to impose fines.    
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
It is not in dispute that the meeting could have been managed more appropriately, but NBS 
upheld Mr Ds complaint accordingly. And it said it has addressed the training needs that the 
meeting revealed.
Mr D has been clear he feels a higher level of compensation is warranted. But this service 
can only consider the impact on an eligible complainant  which here is the estate of the late 
Mrs D, rather than Mr D as an individual. This means that we cant ask NBS to increase any 
offer which has been made to Mr D as an individual.
The rules that apply to this service explain who is eligible to complain to this service. These
rules are known as DISP and are available online. The relevant section is DISP 2.7.6R. In
the circumstances here, the eligible complainant is the late Mrs Ds estate, as it was Mrs D
who had a relevant relationship with NBS. So while Mr D is entitled to represent Mrs Ds 
estate in bringing this complaint  we can only consider it in terms of the impact on
the estate as an entity, separate to Mr D.
We cant consider any complaint from Mr D as an individual about the impact this situation
had on him. He doesnt meet the test of holding a relevant relationship with NBS under
the rules in order to be eligible to complain about this situation in his own right. Put simply,
his ability to represent his late wifes estate doesnt mean that he can also complain
about how the issue impacted on him as an individual.
I realise this could read somewhat coldly to Mr D  but its important to outline what the rules
that apply to us mean we can and cant do. Here, the rules mean that I cant tell NBS to
compensate Mr D for any impact on him as an individual. NBSs offer was made to him
in that capacity and so I cannot tell it to change or increase that. Its unclear to me if Mr D 
cashed the cheque he was sent, if he didnt and if it needs to be reissued if he would now 
like to accept this, then he is free to speak to NBS about this outside of our involvement.
The aspect of this complaint I can consider is the impact on the late Mrs Ds estate.
In order for me to say that NBS should do something more here, I have to be satisfied that 
its actions had an impact on the estate.
But an estate cant feel distress or be upset and so I cant compensate it for any emotional
impact. And then when looking at any inconvenience caused here  the impact was on Mr D, 
rather than Mrs Ds estate. Mr D hasnt said anything, or provided any evidence of any 
impact to the estate itself. That means that I cant say that there is an impact on Mrs Ds 
estate in a way that means NBS should do any more here.
Finally Mr D also asked how we can police regulated businesses if we do not impose fines, 
but that it not our role. It is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to 
monitor and review systems, process and policies across the industry  and by extension to 
penalise businesses for systemic failings as appropriate. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs D, to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman