DRN-3245190
The complaint
Miss W is complaining that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a transaction she didnt authorise.
What happened
On 8 January 2021, Miss W was contacted by someone claiming to be from Monzo. 
Shes said they told her they would help with a fraudulent payment. 
As part of that, Miss W was told to move money from her saving pots into her main 
account. And she was told to share a code she received by text to make sure her 
account was still active. Mis W said that in questioning it, she read out the code. 
Shortly after, a card payment was made from her account for £2,029.33. She 
disputed this and raised a complaint with Monzo. They refused to refund the payment 
because she didnt take reasonable measures to keep her account safe. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss W isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with intent or gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account or to keep her personalised security details 
safe.
Before continuing, its worth noting thats different to what Monzo said in its final 
response to Miss W  that under current regulations, banks have to refund 
fraudulent transactions unless a customer hasnt taken reasonable measures to keep 
their account safe. 
Its not disputed that Miss W didnt authorise this payment. And I dont think she 
failed with intent to keep her details safe, because she thought this was part of 
dealing with fraud on her account. So the remaining question is whether Miss W 
failed with gross negligence. 
The caller claimed to be from Monzo, her bank. And they linked their call to a 
payment that Miss W didnt recognise from earlier that day  an EE top-up. So I can 
see how she trusted the call was genuine  I think lots of people wouldve done.
Monzo suggest Miss W shouldve been alarmed that they didnt reveal more 
information about her. But I can see how their knowledge of the disputed transaction 
alone was persuasive. Arguably, its more convincing than something like her date of 
birth or address, which would be known and couldve been found out by more 
people. 
Monzo also point out that the caller didnt spoof their number  instead it came up as 
no caller ID. But I understand why that didnt ring alarm bells. Afterall, most people 
arent contacted regularly by their banks fraud team, to be confident how their 
number appears on their phone.
For the fraudster to have made this payment, they wouldve needed her card details. 
Miss W has consistently said she didnt share these. And Ive noted there was an EE 
top-up payment before the call  the one that Miss W didnt recognise. I think its 
likely that was attempted by the fraudsters, who then used their knowledge of it to 
gain Miss Ws trust. That means its likely they had her details beforehand, in line 
with what Miss W said. 
Monzo suggest that if thats the case, Miss W must have negligently shared these in 
a phishing website at some point. Its possible. But we know there are other ways 
fraudsters access someones card details that arent within someones control  for 
example from data breaches. In any event, this wouldnt show that Miss W failed with 
gross negligence to keep her card details safe. 
During the call, Miss W was told to move money from her saving pots with Monzo to 
her main account and that theyd send her a code to share with them to confirm that 
her account was active. 
Ive reflected on how Miss W trusted she was speaking with her bank. And how most 
people dont know the ins and outs of a banks processes to question what theyre 
being told to do. I can also see how following the instruction didnt look inherently 
risky  after all, she was moving money internally and didnt know they already had 
her card details. 
Miss W has explained that when she got the text message, she questioned the caller. 
In response they asked what the message said  and in doing so, she read it aloud 
and shared the code. So I think Miss W was cleverly engineered and ultimately 
tricked into sharing it, which I note was the first part of the message. 
Monzo have said she should have taken it in beforehand and seen the warning not to 
share it. Ive considered how she had been convinced she was talking with her bank 
about protecting her account  so, in the moment, I can understand how she didnt 
stop and put this all together. I dont think it meant Miss W fell far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done that she failed with gross negligence. 
Monzo has highlighted the length of the call as well  it doesnt think someone could 
be persuaded in this time (10 minutes). But as Ive explained, I think its the work the 
fraudsters did beforehand and the subsequent knowledge they had of Miss Ws 
disputed transaction that was the persuasive factor. And given that they only needed 
one code, I dont think the length looks implausible  or means Miss W must have 
been significantly careless. 
Theyve also said that Miss W wouldve shared her account balance with the caller  
as what was taken effectively drained her account. They think this should have 
caused her to question things, as her genuine bank would have known this without 
asking. But if thats the case, and Miss W believed she was talking to Monzo, then I 
can also see why she didnt think it was risky to say. Afterall, its not data that falls 
under the scope of her personalised security details.  In reviewing Monzos response to the investigators view, Ive also noted their point 
that: Sadly, if a customer is negligent in 2 or more ways, this constitutes gross 
negligence, and means that they arent eligible to be reimbursed. Our service has 
explained to Monzo our approach to gross negligence, relying on case law and the 
FCAs guidance, and how its to be decided in all of the circumstances. Its not clear 
to me that Monzos formulaic approach fits into that, nor have they explained what its 
based on.  
Taking this all into account, I dont think Miss W failed with gross negligence. So, I 
conclude she isnt liable for the transaction and Monzo need to put things right  by 
refunding her losses. As the money came from her savings pots, Monzo should add 
interest for when she was without this money at her account rate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is to uphold Miss Ws complaint and I order 
Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Pay Miss W the total of the unauthorised transaction on her account (£2,029.33), less 
any funds that may have been recovered.
Pay account rate interest on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman