DRN-3068162
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly declined his claim
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s75; CCA).
What happened
In May 2010 Mr J purchased a Platinum Indefinite Membership provided by 
CCC. This membership entitled Mr J to access a number of benefits such as preferential 
rates on accommodation and flight bookings. The membership was sold to him by CDS.
The total amount paid for the Platinum Membership was £7,550.54. Mr J paid £2,240.54 on
his NatWest credit card and a further £5,310 was funded by a bank transfer. The CCC
membership was a joint purchase with another person, but as it was part paid for on Mr Js
credit card he is the only party to this complaint. As such Ill be referring to Mr Js purchase
throughout.
In February 2011 Mr J was invited to Tenerife using his Platinum Membership. During this
trip Mr J purchased another Membership  VIP Membership  which hes said was sold as
an upgrade to his Platinum Membership. Mr Js complaint relating to this transaction has
been considered separately and so I wont be considering it in this decision.
In 2011 the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills petitioned the High Court
for CCC to be wound up. CCC was one of a number of linked companies who were 
subsequently wound up in October 2012. CDS was not named in this application.
In October 2016 Mr J made a s75 claim to NatWest. Mr J argued that given CCC had been
wound up, he was unable to access the benefits provided by his Platinum Membership and
as such this was a breach of contract.
NatWest declined his claim in December 2016 as it argued the claim was made outside the
statutory limitation period that applies. Mr J then subsequently raised a complaint about his
claim being declined. NatWest maintained it felt that the complaint was raised too late. It also
subsequently argued that there wasnt a sufficient debtorcreditorsupplier (DCS) link
which is required for a s75 claim as the credit card payment was made to CDS and not the
supplier of the membership, CCC.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She felt that whilst the necessary DCS link was in
place (between NatWest, CDS and Mr J) to consider Mr Js s75 claim, she didnt think there
had been a breach of contract. She concluded that as Mr J didnt maintain his annual
membership fees, he wasnt in contract at the time CCC was wound up in October 2012.
Therefore, CCC being wound up didnt breach the contract.
In response to NatWests argument that the claim was made outside the statutory limitation
period that applies, the investigator concluded that Mr J had 6 years from the date of breach
not the date the contract was entered into. She relied on s5 of the Limitation Act 1980 as the
basis for this and concluded that Mr J complained within 6 years of the alleged breach.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final
decision.
Having considered all of the available evidence and arguments I came to the same overall 
outcome as the investigator but for different reasons. In August 2021 I issued a provisional 
decision (which forms part of this decision) setting out my thoughts and inviting both parties 
to provide me with anything else they would like me to consider before I reach a final 
decision. 
Below is an extract of my provisional decision:
I think its firstly important to set out on what basis Mr J has contracted with each business 
CDS and CCC (Mr Js agreements). Ill then go on to consider whether these agreements
met the requirements for a s75 CCA claim. If they did, Ill then go on to consider if NatWest
could be held jointly responsible for a breach of contract by either of these parties.
Mr Js agreements
Mr J signed a document titled MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION on 29 May 2010 that reads:
This agreement is made by CDS., whose registered address is [ADDRESS], for the
purpose of purchasing membership to the CCC Plc. As follows:-
Mr Js details are recorded and there is a section titled To be completed by the marketer.
It sets out the total price, £7,500, and breaks this down into £2,200 to be paid by credit card
and £5,300 payment method: to be advised. This was subsequently funded by a bank
transfer.
At the bottom of this page Mr J has signed just below where it reads:
I confirm that the details provided are accurate and correct, and that I have fully
read, understood and agree to the terms and conditions attached hereto.
The terms and conditions are a further three pages and Mr J has signed and dated the
bottom of each page. Mr J was therefore provided with a copy of these documents at the
time and I think its likely he had the opportunity to read them before he signed the contract 
hes signed to that effect and hasnt raised that he didnt have the opportunity.
The terms and conditions set out what CCC did for its members. I think its key to highlight
that CDS isnt mentioned within these terms and conditions. Ive detailed some of the key
terms for the purposes of this decision below.
Membership
1. I/we understand that I/we have applied for membership to [CCC]
and understand the associated benefit (outlined in addendum 1.0)
2. I/we understand that Platinum membership level is indefinite subject to payment
of an annual subscription fee (The current subscription fee is printed on the front
side of this contract)

4. I/we acknowledge that all the details given are correct and will notify [CCC] of any 
future changes

9. [CCC] endeavours to ensure that my/our membership benefitsavailable at all times and will continuously strive to provide new services.
10. I/we understand that my/or Membership and membership documents will be
dispatched by [CCC], upon receipt of our completion details,
directly to me/us.

Services
[This section sets out some of the services offered by CCC and
its liability to members. It makes no mention of CDS]

13. I/we understand that every effort will be made to obtain my/our selected
destinations and occupation dates. However it is understood that alternative
accommodation and travel arrangements may be offered subject to seasonal
availability.
14. I/we acknowledge that [CCC] reserves the right to withdraw
Liability
1. I/we understand that the company whose details appear on the front side of this
application is an independent entity authorised to sell memberships to [CCC].
2. [CCC] warrants that it shall use its best endeavours to provide
the services with reasonable care and attention and, as far as is possible, will
accord to your request.
3. Where [CCC] supplies you with any products or services
provided by a third party, [CCC] will be acting as your agent in
connection therewith and will use its upmost care in selecting the supplier and
ensuring the products or services are provided in accordance with your request.

5. [CCC] shall have no liability to you for any loss, damage,
costs, expenses or other claims for compensation arising from requests or
instructions supplied by you which are incomplete, incorrect or inaccurate or
arising from their late arrival or non-arrival or any other fault of yours.
6. [CCC] shall not be liable to you or be deemed to be in breach
of these Terms and Conditions by reason of any delay in performing, or any
failure to perform, any of [CCCs] obligations in relation to the
services, if the delay or failure was due to any cause beyond [CCCs]
reasonable control.
7. [CCC] may vary these Terms and Conditions from time to time and will notify you 
of any changes in a timely manner any of the services at any time.
I think its clear from the agreement and accompanying Terms and Conditions that Mr J
bought a CCC Platinum membership from CDS for a total cost of £7,500. The exact figures
paid varied slightly from what was listed on the agreement  the reason isnt clear, but its
potentially due to exchange rates. In any event, the figures paid are similar to those listed on
the agreement and so I dont think it makes a difference for the purpose of this decision.
These funds were paid to CDS. Once CDS took payment it was for CCC to send to Mr J his
Membership and membership documents.
In addition, there was an ongoing annual requirement to pay a £95 subscription fee. The
terms dont specify who this payment should be made to. Ive seen an acknowledgement
letter for the £95 payment dated 5 July 2011 from CCC Renewals Department. Its not clear
if it relates to this membership or the subsequent membership Mr J purchased. However, I
think this demonstrates its most likely that the requirement for Mr J to pay the annual
membership fee was to CCC and not CDS.The membership is described as being indefinite on the application form. However, neither
application form or accompanying terms give a clear explanation as to how this would work
in practice. This is important as CCC was wound up in 2012, so CCC membership didnt last
forever. The accompanying terms describe the membership as indefinite subject to the
payment of an annual subscription fee. Mr J could either pay the fee and enjoy the benefits
of the membership for the following year, or he could choose not to pay it and not access the
benefits. This is different to a contract that renews annually and results in it being Mr Js
decision to continue with the membership or not (rather than CCC). This is why I think the
contract was set up to pay a large joining fee followed by a lower annual subscription fee.
I have also considered the description of CDS role on the application form being for the
purpose of purchasing membership to the CCC (detailed above.) In addition, under the
liability section of the accompanying terms it states I/we understand that the company 
whose details appear on the front side of this application is an independent entity authorised
to sell memberships to CCC. CDS isnt detailed in the accompanying terms as providing
any ongoing services to Mr J and I dont think Mr J had any ongoing requirement to deal with
CDS.
So I dont think there were any ongoing contractual relations between Mr J and CDS
regarding his CCC membership after it was arranged and all of the benefits were provided
by CCC. I therefore think Mr Js contract with CDS was limited to CDS procuring Mr J a CCC
membership. Mr J paid for this in part with his NatWest credit card and in part by a bank
transfer and CDS procured the membership in line with what was agreed. Its not entirely
clear whether this CCC membership continued until 2011 when Mr J took out a VIP
membership or 2012 when CCC was wound up, but in both cases I think CDS involvement
had ended by that date.
However, in addition to procuring Mr J a membership, I think that CDS were also acting as
an agent for CCC. From everything Ive seen, I think its clear that there is an ongoing
contractual relationship between CCC and Mr J. Once payment was received CCC supplied
the membership (paragraph 10 of the Membership section of the accompanying terms) and
all the benefits of the membership. I think it was also to CCC that Mr J was required to pay
his ongoing subscription fee to if he wanted to access his membership. However, during the
application process I cant see that Mr J had any direct dealings with CCC and so he mustve
contracted with CCC through an agent.
To summarise I think Mr J contracted with CDS to procure him the membership and I think
Mr J contracted with CCC (through the use of CDS as an agent) to supply the membership
and associated benefits.
Do these agreements meet the requirements for a s75 CCA claim?
Section 75 makes the provider of credit (NatWest in this case) equally liable where there is a
case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of the goods or services. For
section 75 to apply there are several criteria that need to be met, one of which is a valid a
debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the parties (this is set out more fully in
s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA). However, to summarise, there needs to be arrangements in place
so that the supplier of goods or services is paid using the credit card.
Looking at the contract between Mr J and CDS to procure membership, Mr J paid CDS
directly using his NatWest credit card (in part) to fund the transaction. It is therefore clear
that the necessary DCS agreement is in place for s75 to apply. Mr J (debtor) used his
NatWest credit card (creditor) in a transaction with CDS to procure membership (CDS
supplied the goods/service).However, I dont agree this is the case for Mr Js agreement with CCC for the ongoing
contract to provide the membership and associated benefits. As Ive explained above, Mr J
made his credit card payment to CDS in part payment for his CCC membership. I havent
seen anything to suggest CDS and CCC are associates for the purposes of s184 and s187
CCA. In addition, in the petition to windup CCC and its associated companies, CDS is not
listed in that petition. So based on everything Ive seen, Mr J has paid another entity, not
connected to CCC, for his CCC membership. And so because of this I dont think there is a
valid DCS agreement in place for this contract and I dont think it was unfair for NatWest to
decline his s75 claim in respect of it.
Can NatWest be held jointly responsible for a breach of contract?
- Breach of contract
Mr J has argued that CCC breached his contract as CCC was wound up in 2012 (following
the High Court petition) it was no longer able to provide the membership and associated
benefits. Its also been raised that Mr J hasnt evidenced hes continued to pay the annual
subscription fees and as such he was out of contract with CCC when it was wound up. 
However, as Ive explained above Mr Js agreement with CCC doesnt meet the criteria
needed for a s75 CCA complaint. Therefore I cant go on to consider if CCC being wound up
constitutes a breach of contract that NatWest could be liable for under s75 CCA or if Mr J
had already ended the contract prior to this. I appreciate this will be frustrating for Mr J, but I
hope my explanation above explains why I have reached this conclusion.
In respect of the contract between Mr J and CDS, as Ive explained above this was to
procure membership. It wasnt to provide any ongoing benefits or ensure these were
provided  this was the agreement between Mr J and CCC. I therefore cant say that CCC
being wound up breached Mr Js contract with CDS. Ive also considered whether the
contract between Mr J and CDS was breached for any other reason. However, I dont think it
was. CDS was required to procure Mr J a CCC membership, and from everything Ive seen,
CDS has met its obligation to do this. I therefore dont think theres been a breach of the
contract between Mr J and CDS. And so I cant say NatWest acted unfairly when it declined
Mr Js s75 CCA claim.
- Limitation Act
NatWest has argued that Mr Js complaint was raised too late and outside the time limits
detailed in the Limitation Act. As relevant law I am required to consider the Limitation Act.
But I dont need to come to a firm conclusion on whether the Limitation Act would have given
NatWest a defence to any claim Mr J brought under s75. I say that because, for the reasons
set out above, I dont think there are the right circumstances for Mr J to be able to bring a
claim, so I dont need to consider whether NatWest has any defence to that claim.
In response to my provisional decision NatWest confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr J, 
through his representative, made a number of points in response. 
Mr J and his representative have argued that CDS was merely a marketing agent, as CCC 
didnt retail its memberships directly to the public. They argue that CCC remained the 
supplier under this agreement and based on the language in Mr Js agreement, CDS merely 
facilitated the purchase. 
Mr J and his representatives have also set out various business relationships between a 
number of different individuals and/or companies. They have argued that through these 
associated links a DCS link can be established and by relying on s184(3) CCA.  To support 
this, theyve provided a copy of the marketing agreement between CDS and a company theyve said is connected to CCC (for the purposes of marketing CCC memberships). 
Theyve also provided a copy of Mr Js travel agency booking for his trip to Tenerife in 
February 2011. Mr J was invited on this trip to attend a meeting where he subsequently took 
out another membership. (As explained above, this purchase has not been considered as 
part this decision). 
In addition, theyve referenced Bank of Scotland v. Alfred Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB) 
(the Truman case) as an authority for extending the DCS link beyond a three-party 
relationship. They argue there is a direct correlation between Mr Js case and the 
circumstances of the Truman case. 
Finally, they have reiterated that their claim is for breach of contract and they dont agree 
that Mr Js actions regarding not paying the annual subscriptions amount to a breach of 
contract on his part. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, when considering this, Im required by DISP 
3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I need to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ive carefully considered the points Mr J and his representative have raised in response to 
my provisional decision and I still dont think this complaint should be upheld for the reasons 
explained in my provisional decision. However, I would like to comment on the points raised 
in response. 
Mr J and his representative have said that CDS was a marketing agent for CCC and merely 
facilitated payment. Firstly, I dont agree that CDS merely facilitated payment. As I explained 
in my provisional decision, I think there were two contracts in place here. The first between 
CDS and Mr J to procure the membership (which it did). The second where CDS was acting 
as an agent for CCC to enter CCC into a contract with Mr J to supply the benefits of the 
underlying membership. I agree the supplier under the second contract was CCC and whilst 
payment was made to CDS, CDS was doing more than merely facilitating payment to CCC. 
It was procuring membership and acting as agent for CCC and so because of this the DCS 
link between Mr J, NatWest and CCC was broken. 
Ive thought carefully about the various individuals and companies Mr J and his 
representative have set out to try and demonstrate a connection (which would satisfy the 
CCA and establish a DCS link) between CDS and CCC. Firstly, Id like to explain that I 
appreciate the level of investigation Mr J and his representative have taken to try and 
establish a DCS connection.  However, I dont agree that Mr J and his representative have demonstrated a direct 
connection between CDS and CCC sufficient to meet the definition of associates in s184 
CCA. To explain, s187 CCA allows for pre-existing arrangements to exist if the creditor 
makes the payment to the suppliers associate. This means that there are certain 
circumstances where, if the payment isnt made directly to the supplier, but to an associate 
of the supplier, the DCS link can remain intact. Section 184 CCA describes the different 
relationships which meet the definition of associates including, as Mr J and his 
representative has explained, s184(3) which describes how a body corporate can be an 
associate of another body corporate.   
Mr J and his representative have provided details of a number of individuals with various 
business connections through other companies and individuals and one instance of a family 
relationship between two individuals. Its not surprising that individuals operating in this 
market at the same time might have various other businesses in common. 
Mr Js representative has shown that Individual One, a director of CCC, was also a director 
of a different British company, Company A. And Individual Two, who was an administrator of 
the Spanish company CDS, was also a director of Company A. Mr Js representative has 
argued that this meant CCC and CDS were linked for the purposes of s184  I think that 
could be possible if Individual One and Two were in a partnership. Apart from the problem of 
saying they were in a partnership due to their involvement on Company A (which was a 
limited company) I can see that Individual One was appointed a director on the day 
Individual Two resigned as a director, so I cant see that there were involved in the company 
at the same time. I have also noted that neither party was a director of Company A when 
Mr J took out the membership, as Company A wasnt incorporated until almost three years 
after Mr J was sold the membership. So I dont agree that the companies were linked in the 
way Mr Js representative has argued. 
As Ive explained, this doesnt establish a direct connection sufficient to meet the definition of 
s184. As Mr Js representative has highlighted it is too tenuous. So for the reasons above 
and in my provisional decision, I dont think there is the sufficient DSC link in place for Mr Js 
contract with CCC to supply membership (where CDS acted as agent for CCC.) 
Ive also considered the arguments raised by Mr J and his representative in relation to the 
Truman case and I accept that the Truman case does provide an authority for extending the 
DCS link beyond a three-party relationship. However, I dont agree that the facts are the 
same in this instance. In the Truman case the key difference was the party who accepted 
payment provided no other service, it merely facilitated payment. So the courts found this 
didnt break the DCS chain. In this example, as Ive explained above, CDS did more than 
simply facilitating payment. It acted as agent for CCC and so I dont agree the reasoning of 
the Truman case applies in this case. 
Finally, Ive noted Mr J and his representatives have made arguments relating to Mr J not 
paying the annual subscriptions. They argue that this doesnt amount to a breach of contract 
on Mr Js part. As Ive explained in my provisional decision and above, I dont think Mr J has 
the sufficient DCS link in place to bring a s75 complaint (in relation to the contract to supply 
the membership). So I cant go on to consider arguments about whether or not the contract 
was breached and by which party. 
In conclusion, I dont think there were the right sort of arrangements in place for NatWest to 
be responsible to answer Mr Js claim. It follows, I think NatWest has acted fairly in turning 
down the claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021. 
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
