DRN-4251013
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Tide Platform Ltd (trading as Tide) wont refund money hes lost as a 
result of a scam.
What happened
Mr B needed a van for his business, and says he saw an advert for the kind of van he 
wanted on a well-known online marketplace. He contacted the seller, who sent him various 
photographs of the van. Mr B thought that the van was being sold for a reasonable price - 
£4,600  and checked that the van was taxed and had a valid MOT. The seller also gave 
him their home address, which reassured him that everything was legitimate.
It was agreed that Mr B would pay the seller via PayPal and the van would be delivered to 
him. He was told that he could check the van on delivery and return it within 5 days to
receive a full refund if he wasnt happy with it. The seller sent him a link to what appeared to
be PayPals website, and he was directed to make a faster payment to a bank account in a 
secure live chat. Mr B paid the £4,600 as agreed, from the business account he held with 
Tide.
When the van didnt arrive by the expected delivery date, Mr B tried to contact the seller. But 
when he was unable to make contact with them, he realised he had been the victim of a 
scam. 
When Mr B reported the scam to Tide, it declined to reimburse him. It explained that it wasnt 
signed up to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code) and so was under no obligation to refund the payment under that code. It also 
explained that it had paused the payment for checks, but that Mr B had bypassed that 
system and simply made the payment again. It also explained that it didnt think it would 
have made any difference if it had contacted Mr B directly before allowing the payment to go 
through, as Mr B believed he was legitimately purchasing a van. Tide did reach out to the 
beneficiary bank to try to recover Mr Bs money, but no funds remained.
Mr B wasnt happy with Tides position. He said it should have noticed that the
transaction was unusual and made some basic enquiries about it before processing it.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, ultimately they felt that Tide could 
have done more to protect Mr B from this fraud. They noted that Tide had paused the 
payment when Mr B initially tried to make it, but hadnt acted on suspicious details regarding 
the payment  specifically that it was marked as being for PayPal Ltd but was not being 
made to a PayPal account. The Investigator felt that if Tide had asked Mr B some questions 
about what was happening at this time then it likely would have been able to uncover the 
scam, and therefore prevent Mr Bs loss. 
However, the Investigator also felt that Mr B should bear some responsibility here. They 
noted that the price of the van appeared to be too good to be true, and so felt that Mr B 
should have done more to confirm it was a genuine purchase. 
As a result, the Investigator recommended that Tide reimburse Mr B for 50% of his loss, plus 
8% interest.
Mr B accepted the Investigators findings, but Tide did not. It said that customers can name 
payments whatever they chose, and he fact the payment was named PayPal ltd wouldnt 
have been any cause for concern. It also noted that Mr B did not wait for any checks to be 
carried out on the paused payment, instead he just made the payment again, and this time it 
wasnt flagged as needing additional checks. Tide maintained that even if it had contacted 
Mr B directly then it would not have been able to uncover the scam.
 
As no agreement could be reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
The starting position is that Mr B is responsible for transactions hes carried out
himself (even as a result of deception). However, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Tide should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive looked at Mr Bs account activity, and while the account had not been open for long, the 
payment of £4,600 was relatively high value and went to a new payee. And its clear that 
something about the payment raised a red flag for Tide, as the payment was paused for 
further checks and Tide carried out a manual review of the payment. It appears though, that 
on looking at the payment, Tide decided it was not suspicious, I dont agree that was a 
reasonable conclusion to reach.
The payment was to an account with a third-party payment institution, which Ill call S. It was 
not a payment to PayPal, but the payment was named PayPal Ltd. Tide has said this 
discrepancy wouldnt have caused it any concern, as customers can name payments 
whatever they want. I wouldnt generally expect Tide to monitor payments for this kind of 
discrepancy in payee names. But in this case there was a manual review of the payment 
and, as a payment service provider, Tide has a responsibility to keep up to date with 
features of common scams. The diversion of payments intended for PayPal to third party 
accounts is frequently a feature of online purchase scams. So I think the discrepancy should have been flagged as a potentially suspicious issue, and Tide should at least have asked 
some additional questions of Mr B before allowing the payment to go through. 
And, had it done so, I think it would have quite quickly come to light that this was a scam. 
Tide ought to have had a good enough understanding of how vehicle scams work  including 
that fraudsters often purport to sell vehicles which dont exist or dont belong to them on 
online marketplaces, that they usually send enough information about a vehicle to reassure 
a customer without allowing them to inspect it in person, that they regularly use fake PayPal 
communications to get the buyer to make a payment to an account outside PayPal, and that 
they more often than not offer a money-back guarantee if a buyer is unhappy with a vehicle 
upon delivery  to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud if it had asked him 
some probing questions. 
I appreciate that Tide needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in
payments, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment
requests and I wouldnt have expected it to interrogate Mr B. I also acknowledge that the
main perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I think appropriate questions should
reasonably have been asked in this case, and if they had been I think the scam wouldve 
been prevented and Mr B wouldnt have suffered a loss.
I do, however, agree with our Investigators finding that Mr B ought to have recognised the 
potential that this purchase wasnt legitimate. The price he had agreed to pay for the van 
was so low that it could really be considered as too good to be true  approximately £10,000 
less than the true value of the van he thought he was purchasing. So with this in mind, and 
considering that Mr B hadnt seen the vehicle in person before agreeing to buy it, I think its 
fair and reasonable for Mr B to bear responsibility for 50% of the loss.
Lastly, Im satisfied that Tide could not have done more to recover the funds. Once it had 
been told of the fraud it contacted the recipient bank, its just unfortunate that the funds had 
already been moved on before Mr B identified that he had been scammed and made contact 
with Tide.
So, in summary, I consider that Tide could have done more to prevent this fraud, but find 
that Mr B should also bear some responsibility for the financial loss here. I therefore consider 
that Tide should refund 50% of the payment made.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Cashplus should:
- Refund to Mr B 50% of the payment  representing a refund of £2,300
- Pay 8% interest on this amount from 31 January 2021 to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Tide Platform Ltd (trading as Tide) should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Sophie MitchellOmbudsman