DRN-2538382
The complaint
Mr W complained a previous claim from a non-European nation was unfairly recorded 
against him by Admiral Insurance Company Ltd (Admiral) and hes not happy this has 
impacted the premium hes paid for his motor policy.
What happened
Mr W arranged his insurance with Admiral after moving to the UK from overseas. He initially 
took out insurance on the basis he had a driving licence from overseas for the past four 
years. During that year, he passed a UK driving test to gain a full UK driving licence, before 
renewing his policy for another year. As part of its risk assessment, Admiral asked Mr W if 
hed made any previous insurance claims. Mr W told Admiral of a claim he made when living 
overseas. 
Mr W was unhappy as Admiral factored in additional risk into its assessment when 
calculating his premium, based on the claim made overseas. Mr W said Admiral shouldnt 
have included this in the risk assessment as the claim was made in a non-European 
Economic Area (EEA).
Mr W said he tried to clarify with Admiral whether this information was held on a UK 
database and whether Admirals approach was consistent with the rules of the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). Mr W said he didnt get a clear answer to his 
questions and his complaint wasnt upheld.
Admiral contacted its underwriters and confirmed to Mr W that the underwriters do take 
account of claims that happen abroad for a specified time.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Admiral had acted reasonably as it 
had used the information disclosed to it by Mr W and she said insurers were free to make 
their own commercial decisions on how they calculate premiums. She also thought that as 
Mr W had only recently gained his UK driving licence his no claims discount would have 
been re-set to zero for the purpose of calculating the premium. Mr W disagreed, so the case 
has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr W feels like his honesty in declaring his claim has led to higher insurance 
premiums. He believes Admirals actions are inconsistent with the rules of the ICOBS and 
thinks his treatment is unfair when compared to other customers who may have similar 
circumstances but may not have declared a previous claim from abroad.
Mr W didnt think Admirals actions were consistent with the principles of ICOBS, that 
customers are given clear, fair information when insurance is sold to them. Having 
considered what Mr W has said, I dont think Admiral has done anything wrong under the 
principles of ICOBS. I have listened to the sales call and the complaint call between Mr W 
and Admiral and I didnt hear anything on those calls that made me think that Admiral hadnt 
been clear with Mr W about the product that was been sold to him. ICOBS doesnt set rules 
on specific factors an insurer can consider. 
Admiral has said the underwriters do take into consideration claims from abroad when 
assessing the risk its taking on. Each insurer will have a different way they assess risk, and 
they will place different weightings on these risks. But these are commercial decisions that 
are reflected in the premiums that insurers offer to customers. Admiral has checked that this 
information is part of how the underwriter determines the premium. And so I think it has 
taken reasonable steps to explain to Mr W that all claim history for a specified time is taken 
into account when the underwriter assessed the risk and calculated the premium for Mr W. I 
think in these circumstances, Admiral has collected and recorded relevant information for the 
purposes of offering Mr W a policy. Therefore, I dont think it has acted unfairly.
Mr W thinks he has been treated unfairly compared to other customers. However, Admiral 
has confirmed it asks the same questions to all its customers. So, I dont think Admiral has 
treated Mr W any differently. It has used the information disclosed by Mr W to assess the 
risk and Mr W is expected to answer these questions accurately to the best of his 
knowledge. I think Admiral has treated Mr W fairly and no different to other customers. 
Admiral pointed out to Mr W when it sold the policy that once he transfers to a UK driving 
licence, its likely his premium would be affected. I think Admiral has communicated this 
clearly to Mr W, so acted fairly.
In conclusion, I dont think Admiral has done anything wrong. It has asked relevant questions 
to Mr W to assess the risk for the correct premium to be calculated and the information it has 
recorded is relevant to the policy. Therefore, I dont require Admiral to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
Company Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman