DRN-3583070
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, closed his credit
account and reported a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr C had a credit account with Barclays. In October 2020, Mr C contacted Barclays as he
was in arrears on the account and was struggling to meet the monthly contractual payments
that were due on his account because of the financial impact of Covid-19.
Mr C completed an income and expenditure assessment with Barclays at that time, which
showed that his outgoings were more than his income. As a result, Barclays placed a hold
on Mr Cs account such that he didnt need to make monthly payments towards it.
Mr Cs financial position improved, and he made a payment towards the account of
approximately £3,500, which reduced the balance outstanding on the account by about half.
However, Mr C then discovered that Barclays had closed his account and reported a default
to the credit reference agencies. Mr C wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Cs complaint. They noted that they had sent a default notice to Mr C
informing that his account might be defaulted if he continued to be unable to make payments
towards that account. Barclays also noted that the default notice explained to Mr C that if his
financial position improved that it was important that he called Barclays to update them, and
that the scheduled default may not be able to be stopped if Mr C didnt call them.
Finally, Barclays noted that Mr C hadnt called them, and therefore hadnt confirmed that
hed be able to make continuing monthly payment moving forwards, and so they didnt feel
that theyd acted unfairly by defaulting the account as they had.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays had
acted unfairly towards Mr C and so they also didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 June 2022, as follows:
In April 2020, the FCA issued guidance on the provision of three-month payment 
holidays to eligible consumers who were experiencing difficulty meeting the 
payments due on their credit accounts because of the financial impact of Covid-19. 
The FCA guidance included that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the 
reporting of these payment holidays to the credit reference agencies would be 
suspended, so that an eligible consumer who benefited from such a payment holiday 
didnt have their credit file impacted by doing so.
Not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment plans, and the 
FCA explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had 
been able to meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until that 
time, but who were at risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments 
on their credit files solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
In his complaint to this service, Mr C had indicated that hed had a payment holiday. 
But when reviewing the statements of Mr Cs credit account I couldnt see any 
indication of months where a payment holiday had been in effect, and Barclays have 
confirmed that Mr C hadnt been granted a payment holiday previously at the time 
that he first contacted them in October 2020 to advise that he was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
Ive therefore considered, as part of my review, whether it was reasonable for 
Barclays to not have offered Mr C a three-month FCA prescribed payment holiday at 
that time. This is because if Mr C had been given such a three-month holiday, this 
payment holiday would have covered the period up to when Mr C made the large 
payment towards his account, and potentially might have resulted in Mr Cs account 
not being defaulted.
Barclays contend that because Mr Cs account was already in arrears when he 
contacted them in October 2020 that this meant that he wasnt an eligible consumer 
as per the FCA guidance. To that effect, its notable that Mr C didnt make a payment 
of £186.04 that was due on his account on 21 September 2020, but that he did make 
a payment of £190 to clear those arrears on 2 October 2020.
It's also notable that Mr C didnt make the next payment that was due on his account 
on 21 October 2020, but that he called Barclays and advised that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty because of Covid-19 only two days later, on             
23 October 2020.
I feel that the purpose and spirit of the FCA guidance surrounding payment holidays 
was clear  in that it was implemented to protect consumers who had otherwise been 
able to maintain their monthly payments but who were in danger of falling behind on 
payments and having their credit files affected solely as a result of Covid-19.
Considering Mr Cs position here, I feel that he meets this criteria, and that he was 
the type of consumer that the FCA were seeking to protect. And while Mr C was in 
arrears on his account, he was only in arrears by two days, having cleared the 
previous months arrears with his last payment of £190.
Accordingly, I feel that Mr Cs status as being the type of consumer that the FCA 
guidance was designed to protect should reasonably have been recognised by 
Barclays when Mr C spoke with them in October 2020, and that he should have been 
given a three-month payment holiday by Barclays at that time. And I also feel that 
payment holiday could and should have reasonably been backdated by Barclays to 
cover the September 2020 payment that Mr C had recently paid late, so that Mr C 
didnt incur the reporting of a late payment on his credit file in regard to that month.
Had Barclays applied such a three-month payment holiday to Mr Cs account, it 
would have covered the months of September, October, and November. And Mr C would also have been eligible for a second such payment holiday which might have 
run up to and including February 2021.
These payment holidays would also have necessitated ongoing communications 
from Barclays advising Mr C that his payment holidays were due to end and advising 
of required next steps, which would also have included Mr C providing an update 
income and expenditure assessment to confirm whether or not his ongoing financial 
situation had improved such that he could afford to resume making the contractual 
monthly payments, either at the end of the first payment holiday or the second.
All of which means that, considered from this perspective, I find it very difficult to 
conclude that the defaulting of Mr Cs account is fair here. And I say this because I 
feel that had the FCA prescribed payment holidays been granted to Mr C by Barclays 
as I feel that they should have been, that Mr C would in all likelihood have been able 
to confirm to Barclays that he could afford to resume making the contractual 
repayments that were due on his account before he incurred any adverse reporting 
on his credit file.
It follows therefore that Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Cs favour 
on that basis and instructing Barclays to remove the adverse reporting from Mr Cs 
credit file, including any late payments that may have been reported from September 
2021 onwards, as well as the subsequent default.
My provisional instructions also include that Barclays must reopen Mr Cs credit 
account without applying any interest for the period that Mr Cs account has been 
restricted or closed, and that they must make a payment of £200 to Mr C which I feel 
provides fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset that Mr C has 
incurred.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr C and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
Mr C and Barclays both confirmed they were happy to accept the outcome as outlined in my 
provisional decision. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this 
complaint in Mr Cs favour on the basis described above, and I can confirm that I do uphold 
this complaint in Mr Cs favour accordingly.
Putting things right
Barclays must reopen Mr Cs account without applying any interest for the period that the 
account has been restricted or closed.
Barclays must also remove all adverse reporting from Mr Cs credit file relating to this 
account from September 2021 onwards, including the late payment markers and the default.
Finally, Barclays must make a payment of £200 to Mr C in recognition of the trouble and 
upset that hes incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman