DRN-2737967
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has been taking direct 
debit payments from her and has registered adverse information about her payment history.
What happened
Mrs M contacted Barclaycard to say she hadnt used an account in her name. She says she 
realised that she had been paying a direct debit of £50 a month to the account and said she 
didnt authorise this. And when she cancelled this Barclaycard issued a default. She says 
that Barclaycard hadnt been in contact with her about this account.
Barclaycard said that the account had been opened in February 2011. It was used in March 
2011 and the balance paid off in full in July 2011. A direct debit to take the minimum 
payment due on the account had been set up when it was opened. In December 2013 a 
balance transfer was made of just under £3,400 and direct debits taken monthly. In 
September 2018 the direct debit amount was increased to a fixed £50 a month after Mrs M 
had contacted it. None of the details on the account about Mrs M had been changed since 
the account was opened. And it considered Mrs M was responsible for paying the balance 
on the account and that as the account was in arrears explained this could impact Mrs Ms 
credit record. She had cancelled her direct debit in April 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Barclaycard had provided 
the statements on the account and records of contact it had with Mrs M. A direct debit 
mandate had been in place since the account was opened. And this was transferred to     
Mrs Ms new bank in 2016 when she used a seven-day switching service. Barclaycard had a 
record of Mrs M calling to make the balance transfer and passing its security checks, and of 
calling to change the direct debit in 2018 to £50 a month. Mrs M said she hadnt received 
statements, but he could see that in August 2011 the account was changed to paperless 
statements. Mrs M said she didnt recall using the account and maintained she hadnt made 
the balance transfer. He wasnt persuaded that Barclaycard had made any mistake in the 
way it dealt with the account and, as Mrs M hadnt made required repayments, in registering 
a default. 
Mrs M didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She did now accept she used 
the card in March 2011. But she said she didnt use it to make the balance transfer in 
December 2013 and didnt have an account at the business the transfer was made from. 
She also denied registering for online services and requesting paperless statements. She 
said she is disappointed Barclaycard didnt contact her directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms position on this complaint has changed. She initially said she had never used the 
card and account at all. She now accepts using it and I can see that direct debit payments 
were made after March 2011. She then made a lump sum payment to clear the then balance 
but that took the account slightly into credit. And on 31 August 2011 there was a payment to 
a retailer that used most of that credit balance. That came after the account was switched to 
paperless operation on 19 August 2011. The balance transfer in December 2013 was at a 
promotional rate of zero percent interest until December 2015.
Barclaycard took payments due under the direct debit mandate Mrs M originally set up. And 
that mandate passed to her new bank in 2016 when she switched her account. Direct debit 
payments have been taken from her old and new bank accounts since 2014 in relation to the 
borrowing created by the balance transfer amount. Barclaycard has a clear record that the 
minimum direct debit payment was increased to £50 in September 2018 following a call. I 
cant see why anyone other than Mrs M would have made or benefitted from that change. It 
also has the record showing that the account was switched to online operation only and that 
it sent emails to Mrs M when her online statements were due. After that Im afraid it was 
reasonably down to her to check her account online. 
I appreciate Mrs M said she noticed the £50 direct debit in April 2020 and then cancelled it 
and initially asked for a refund of 12 months payments. She now disputes all the payments 
and the borrowing itself.
Im thinking about what is most likely. And I think that the most likely explanation here is that 
Mrs M simply forgot about this direct debit and what happened on her account  as she did 
with the original use in 2011. And so, couldnt understand why there was a balance on the 
account  this being over six years after the balance transfer. I dont have a basis to find that 
Barclaycard made a mistake. The pattern of activity on the account is consistent with 
genuine use and Mrs M was reasonably aware of the direct debit especially when this was 
switched to her new bank. And again, when she changed the amount in 2018. As a result, I 
dont find Barclaycard has made a mistake in holding Mrs M responsible for this borrowing or 
in registering a default when she stopped making payments and didnt come to any other 
arrangement.
I know Mrs M will be very disappointed by the outcome of this complaint. Mrs M explained in 
her complaint form that she was in financial difficulty. She would need to contact Barclaycard 
now about repayment and Id expect it to treat her positively and sympathetically. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman