DRN-3909533
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined her home insurance claim 
for flood damage to a boundary wall.
Mrs P is represented in this matter by a relative but, for simplicity, Ill refer mainly to Mrs P in 
my decision. 
What happened
Mrs P had an Ageas home insurance policy. In late January 2021, flood water caused part of 
her boundary wall to collapse. This boundary wall is of a very specific design, local to the 
area in which Mrs P lives. She made an insurance claim to Ageas.
A report by Ageas loss adjustor in February 2021 concluded: the damage is not 
consistent with a one off event and is rather due to a gradually operating cause where the 
field on the opposite side of the wall has neglected [sic]. Ageas declined the claim.
Several months later, Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. We asked Ageas to 
review Mrs Ps claim. It did so but declined it for the same reasons. Mrs P was unhappy with 
this so asked us to review her case. Shed like Ageas to settle her claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He was 
satisfied that Mrs Ps policy covered her for damage caused by flood water that came 
suddenly into her buildings (which include the boundary wall). But he agreed with Ageas 
that the flood water had built up over time and wasnt a sudden event. He thought Ageas 
decision to decline the claim was fair.
Mrs P disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Like most polices, Mrs Ps cover only makes Ageas liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events listed in her policy. Mrs P says her boundary wall collapsed because of flood 
water. Her policy documents show shes covered for flood damage. Page 14 of her policy 
booklet defines a flood as: water that comes suddenly into your buildings from outside, 
and which enters at the ground floor or below. The booklet says buildings includes garden 
walls.
Ageas says there was no one-off flooding event. In other words, the build-up of water didnt 
happen suddenly so the damage to Mrs Ps wall isnt covered by the flood term in her 
policy. Unfortunately for Mrs P, I agree. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps representative told us: the main cause for flooding was a blocked culvert in the ditch 
running by the road along the east side of the field. She also told us: the blocked culvert 
meant the water continued to build in the field till the wall was at breaking point. Mrs P sent 
us emails from the local council which also show the culvert wasnt kept clear.
Data from the weather station closest to Mrs Ps home shows 35.4mm of rain over the 
previous seven days, and 99mm in the previous 30 days. The January average for the area 
is 82mm. While the rainfall was above average, I dont think this is enough to prompt a flood 
event.
The loss adjustors photos  taken roughly 10 days after the wall collapsed  show a large 
amount of standing water in the neighbouring field. Mrs Ps quote to rebuild the wall  based 
on an 8 February 2021 inspection  said the current water level was covering the 
grumplings (stone footings in the wall that act as a damp barrier), and it would be 
impractical to start repairs until the neighbouring field is drained. 
Ive reviewed expert reports about this type of wall. Generally, it needs little maintenance 
and will dry or be free draining as long as the base area is kept clear. Mrs Ps repair quote 
said the cause of the collapse was the flood water has risen above the grumplings. 
Given the above, I think its reasonable to conclude that poor drainage in the neighbouring 
field allowed a large body of water to build up next to the wall over time. This water 
eventually covered the wall grumplings and caused the collapse. I agree with Ageas that this 
was not a sudden flood event, so isnt covered by Mrs Ps policy.
For the avoidance of any doubt, I agree with Mrs P that the walls collapse wasnt her fault. I 
believe her when she says shes maintained the wall for over 60 years. I also understand 
why she says she shouldnt be responsible for the phenomenal cost of repairing it. The 
estimate for repairs is around £10,000.
Mrs P might want to consider bringing a civil claim against the neighbouring landowner for 
allowing the water to build up so dangerously, or against the council for failing to keep the 
culvert clear. However, based on the policy terms, Im satisfied that Ageas isnt liable for the 
damage to the wall.
Finally, I know that Mrs Ps neighbour had a similar complaint upheld by this service. Ive 
looked at that complaint and Im satisfied that there were reasons that complaint was upheld 
that arent relevant here. So I dont agree that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld just 
because her neighbours complaint was.
This means Im satisfied that the damage to Mrs Ps boundary wall isnt covered by her 
policy. I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably when it declined her claim. It follows that I 
dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman