DRN-1854163
 
The complaint
Mrs P says Morses Club PLC (Morses) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected credit loans Morses provided to Mrs P between 
August 2017 and October 2018. Mrs Ps borrowing history is summarised below:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 24/08/2017 16/11/2017 20 £200.00 £64.95
2 16/11/2017 04/05/2018 33 £500.00 £108.25
3 04/05/2018 23/10/2018 33 £750.00 £162.37
4 23/10/2018 Not repaid 33 £750.00 £162.37
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ps complaint and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given as it was likely Mrs P was struggling financially. They said this because Mrs P had 
missed payments and she was taking out a new loan each time she repaid a previous one. 
Morses disagreed and said that Mrs P hadnt missed any payments, shed changed her 
repayment pattern to fortnightly instead of weekly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mrs P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Morses needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. Mrs P 
didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute with the adjudicators opinion about these 
loans, I wont be making further findings on them.
Morses says it carried out checks before it lent loan 4 to Mrs P and the results of these 
checks didnt raise any concerns. But as this was the fourth time Mrs P had taken out a new 
loan having repaid her previous loan on the same day, I think Morses should have been 
looking to build a clearer picture about Mrs Ps finances before approving this loan. I dont 
think it did this. 
I say this because I think Mrs P was showing signs of having problems managing her 
money. Not only was she taking out a new loan each time she repaid the previous one, she 
had been indebted to Morses for over a year by loan 4. And the amounts she had borrowed 
had increased significantly from £200 to £750. I think this should have caused some concern 
for Morses. As this might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate someone was facing 
longer term problems managing their money.
I think if Morses carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 4, its likely to have 
found that Mrs P was borrowing from other home collected credit lenders. The repayments 
for all these loans would have been increasing Mrs Ps monthly outgoings. Again, this was 
most likely an indication that she was in a cycle of debt and was further borrowing to cover 
the hole that repaying her previous, and other, loans was leaving in her finances. 
So, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint about loan 4 and Morses should put things right. 
Putting things right
If Morses has sold the outstanding debt Morses should buy this back if Morses is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Morses cant buy the debt back, then Morses should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs P towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 4, not including anything Morses has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Mrs P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs P originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4 and treat 
any repayments made by Mrs P as though they had been repayments of the principal on all 
outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs P having made overpayments then Morses should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses 
should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 4. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Mrs P. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs P. Morses shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already written-off.
E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ps credit file in relation 
to loan 4. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses Club PLC must 
give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mrs Ps complaint. Morses Club PLC should put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman