DRN-3676408
The complaint
Mr B complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) took too long to transfer his 
account to a third-party provider. He wants IISL to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
What happened
Following migration of his account to IISL, Mr B gave instructions to transfer his shares to a 
third-party provider, who Ill refer to as F. He says he gave instructions on 8 February 2021, 
but the transfer wasnt completed until 27 May.
IISL said it wasnt responsible for the delays in the transfer being completed. It did apologise 
for the long phone waiting times and it paid Mr B £30 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think IISL 
was responsible for the delay in transferring Mr Bs shares and cash to F and she didnt think 
it needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
IISL knew it was in possession of his assets without his consent following the migration 
from The Share Centre. It knew he wanted to transfer his assets to F and IISL should 
have been calling F every day until the transfer was complete.
It took 16 weeks to transfer his account. The investigator concluded the delay wasnt 
IISLs responsibility. But:
oIISL asked him to resend his transfer request with its account number written on 
it, but then proceeded with the transfer when he didnt return it. 
oIISL said the personal details it held for him didnt match those held by F: but they 
were exactly the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Having considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator 
for the following reasons:
When a consumer decides to transfer to another provider, it is usual practice for that 
provider to contact the existing provider with the transfer request. But F required IISL to 
contact it to initiate the transfer. IISL wasnt aware of this, until Mr B contacted it on 
15 February 2021. Im satisfied that IISL contacted F on the same day, so didnt cause any 
undue delay.
F was then able to send its transfer request, which IISL received on 29 March. On the same 
day, Im satisfied that IISL sent F a valuation, which was required for the transfer to proceed.
F contacted IISL to agree the transfer and settlement dates; and IISL says it transferred 
Mr Bs shares on 19 April. 
F had not provided instructions for the cash balance held. IISL contacted it to ask whether 
the cash was being transferred and to ask for the account details. IIS didnt receive a 
response and sent a further email on 19 May. It seems F asked Mr B to contact IISL to 
provide the required information as he phoned IISL on 26 May with Fs bank details. IISL 
transferred the cash balance on 27 May.
Whilst the transfer did take some time, I dont find this was due to any undue delays by IISL.
Mr B says IISL didnt have his consent to hold his assets, so it should have been phoning F 
every day to speed up the transfer. Mr Bs assets had been migrated to IISL following its 
acquisition of The Share Centre. This was the subject of a separate complaint and I cant 
comment on the merits of that here. But I dont find the reason why Mr Bs assets were being 
held by IISL makes a difference to the overall outcome here. I dont find IISL treated Mr B 
unfairly or unreasonably and that it generally acted on a timely basis at each stage of the 
transfer process.
Mr B says on one occasion IISL asked him to contact F to resend the transfer request. He 
didnt do this but says the transfer went ahead anyway. He suggests what IISL was asking 
for wasnt necessary. It seems to me more likely that IISL was trying to ensure the transfer 
happened smoothly and quickly and that was why it had asked Mr B to contact F. Mr B also 
says IISL said the personal details it held didnt match those held by F. But it seems more 
likely that IISL couldnt confirm the personal details matched until it heard from F  and it 
took F several weeks to make contact. I dont find theres enough evidence to show that 
these were examples of IISL delaying the transfer or putting barriers in place as Mr B 
suggests.
Mr B says he couldnt sell his shares during this period. But hes not provided evidence to 
show that he wanted to sell his shares  he said he was continuing to hold them until the 
price rose. He told us he hadnt made a financial loss. But he has said the distress and 
inconvenience of the delays in transferring his assets led to an impact on his health. Im not 
unsympathetic to that but, as Ive found IISL acted fairly and reasonably, I cant order it to 
pay any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth DawesOmbudsman