DRN-4467896
The complaint
Miss B, who brings the complaint on behalf of her father, Mr B, complains about poor 
customer service from Dignity Funerals Limited.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to the parties, so Ill give just a brief summary 
here.
In March 2008, Mr B bought a funeral plan. Mr B now lives in a care home and has very 
limited capacity. 
In November 2022, Miss B attended a funeral directors to provide a lasting power of attorney 
(LPA) for Mr B, in respect of his property and financial affairs. This document was copied 
and forwarded to Dignity. From the evidence Ive seen, this was the first time the LPA 
document had been provided to Dignity, although I note the LPA was signed and registered 
with the Office of the Public Guardian in 2011. Ive also seen an LPA for Mr B in respect of 
health and welfare, signed and registered in 2020. This document was provided to us by 
Miss B, along with the earlier LPA. Ive not seen any evidence that the 2020 LPA was 
provided to Dignity - but I wouldnt expect to, as the LPA in respect of property and financial 
affairs is the pertinent power of attorney for Mr Bs funeral plan. I note that Mr Bs attorneys 
are empowered to act jointly and severally. 
From November 2022 onwards, there were several instances of poor service which Miss B 
found frustrating. Amongst other things, Miss B says Dignitys call handlers were poorly 
trained and didnt understand how to deal with the LPA or what it meant in terms of an 
attorneys liability. And she says documents received listed her as the plan holder, rather 
than attorney and included spelling errors in names and titles. Miss B also wants Dignity to 
acknowledge that any attorney named on the LPA can act for the plan holder, Mr B.
In July 2022, Miss B complained. Dignity responded with some explanations about its 
processes and standard templates and apologised for any confusion caused. It said 
feedback would be provided regarding the templates and offered Miss B £30 and its sincere 
apology for any inconvenience caused. After some further communication it increased its 
offer to £100. Ive seen that Miss B requested payment of the offer in September 2023.
Miss B brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked 
into things for her. He thought Dignity had done enough to acknowledge Miss Bs concerns 
and put things right. He acknowledged that Miss B is correct when she says that any 
attorney is empowered to deal with Dignity on Mr Bs behalf. But they would still need to 
comply with Dignitys internal identification and verification processes. Our investigator also 
explained to Miss B he was not able to comment on Dignitys offer of £100 compensation 
because our rules only allow us to award compensation for distress and inconvenience to 
eligible complainants themselves, not their representatives.  
Miss B asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on the complaint. She would like 
me to require Dignity to provide proper training to it staff regarding powers of attorney. And 
she said shed suffered considerable time-consuming inconvenience in dealing with Dignity 
on her fathers behalf, as his agent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Dignity needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint. I 
recognise my decision will disappoint Miss B and Im sorry about that. Ill explain my 
reasons, focusing on the key points and evidence I consider material to my decision.
Firstly, Id like to assure Miss B that I understand the comments shes made regarding her 
position as one of the attorneys for her father. But I will clarify our rules regarding eligible 
complainants. The rules governing the Financial Ombudsman Service are the Dispute 
Resolution: Complaints rules  known as DISP and are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook. DISP 2.7.1 R and 2.7.2 R state:
A complaint may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman Service if it is 
brought by or on behalf or an eligible complainant.
A complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant (or a deceased 
person who would have been an eligible complainant) by a person authorised by the 
eligible complainant or authorised by law. 
So the eligible complainant in this case is, and only is, Mr B himself. He is a party to the 
contract with Dignity and, in plain terms, Dignitys customer. The LPA entitles Miss B, or any 
other attorney, to act in Mr Bs stead. Under our rules, the attorneys authorised by Mr B may 
bring a complaint on his behalf. Being authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised 
by law does not make the attorney the eligible complainant under our rules. They are, in our 
terms, Mr Bs representative. 
Miss B has candidly explained that her father is not aware of the difficulties shes 
encountered with Dignity. So theres been no impact on him directly. Our rules only allow us 
to make compensation awards for distress and inconvenience experienced by the eligible 
complainant themselves. I dont doubt that Miss B has found her contact with Dignity 
frustrating. But this, or Dignitys offer of compensation, is not something I can comment on 
further.
I have looked at whether Dignity has responded fairly and reasonably since Miss B raised a 
complaint. As well as offering compensation, Dignity has clarified that Mr B remains the plan 
holder and covered individual. Its offered some explanation for the mistakes that happened, 
made corrections, given feedback internally on its templates and apologised for the 
confusion and inconvenience. Overall, I think this reasonably recognises and addresses the 
problems Miss B encountered. So Im not going to tell Dignity to do anything more.
Finally, Id like to acknowledge Miss Bs desire for me to require Dignity to provide training to 
it staff on powers of attorney. I recognise the strength of Miss Bs views on this matter and 
her desire for others in similar situations to receive a better service. But Im afraid this isnt 
something Im able to do. Our role as a dispute resolution service is to give fair and impartial 
answers to individual complaints. I have no power to tell a business to review its processes 
and procedures or to provide training for its staff. But Miss B may find it helpful to know that 
the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority - does require businesses to learn from customer complaints and to identify and remedy any recurring or systemic problems. 
This is part of the dispute resolution rules, referred to above, (DISP 1.3.3R) that all financial 
businesses subject to regulation must abide by. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Dignity Funerals Limited to do anything more to put 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman