DRN-2957520
The complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of his late mother, Mrs C, about the price Aviva Insurance Limited 
charged her for buildings insurance and contents insurance policies. 
What happened
Mrs C, together with her late husband, took out a buildings insurance policy with an insurer 
that was eventually taken over by Aviva. The policy migrated to Aviva in 2002. The buildings 
policy auto-renewed every May and was paid by monthly direct debit. It was sold by a 
broker. In 2009, Mrs C took out a contents insurance policy with Aviva that renewed every 
March and which was paid for annually over the phone. 
In April 2020 Aviva wrote to Mrs C to say the buildings policy was being withdrawn from its 
product range. In May 2020 Mrs C unfortunately became ill and asked her son, Mr C, to look 
after her finances. He saw that she was paying over £500 a year for her buildings policy 
whereas he, with a similar size property, was only paying £150. 
Mr C raised a complaint with Aviva. He also arranged a combined buildings and contents 
policy for his mother with Aviva for an annual premium of £164.14. On checking his mothers 
papers, he discovered that, combined, shed been paying in excess of £700 for her buildings 
and contents cover. Mr C asked Aviva to explain why it had treated an elderly, vulnerable 
and loyal customer like Mrs C so poorly. He said shed never had a computer or a mobile 
phone. 
Aviva looked into the complaint and said the pricing of the contents policy had been correct. 
It said it couldnt find any information about the buildings policy possibly because it was a 
broker policy which it had no way of checking. Aviva said the contents policy had started in 
2009 with a premium of £133.50 and was offered at renewal in 2020 with a premium of 
£132.35. It said this was slightly cheaper than the new policy Mr C had just arranged for 
Mrs C. 
Mr C replied to say that Mrs C had also paid for an Aviva buildings policy and that the 
premium was £563.88 during 2019/2020. Added to the contents premium, this meant his 
mother was paying in excess of £700 for her buildings and contents. 
Aviva looked into Mrs Cs complaint about the buildings policy again and apologised for the 
confusion caused. Aviva said itd reviewed the historic premiums and that it found no errors. 
It said theyd been calculated in accordance with the policy type, information held and risk as 
perceived. It said the cost of the buildings policy couldnt be compared with the new 
combined buildings and contents policy that Mrs C had taken out because they were 
different products with different rating factors so werent like for like. So it didnt think itd 
overcharged Mrs C. 
Aviva also explained that it underwrote many policies  some were its own direct ones and 
others from brokers. It said each product is designed with specific limits, terms and 
conditions. Finally, it said it couldnt share details about its pricing structure because such 
information was business sensitive but that its prices fluctuated depending on the many 
factors it took into account, often outside of a customers individual control. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr C brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Mr C disagreed with our 
investigators findings and said that Aviva had clearly taken advantage of his mother who 
was unable to use the internet.
The complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When consumers dont engage, year on year, with the renewal of an insurance policy we 
sometimes refer to them as inert. Usually a consumer somehow comes to realise that they 
couldve got cover for less than they have been paying and they then complain that they 
have been overcharged (often for a number or years). 
Its not for this service to tell an insurer how to price its policies. But we do need to make 
sure that an insurer is being consistent and not taking advantage of any particular groups of 
customers. 
When a consumer hasnt been in contact with an insurer for four annual renewals or more 
we think its reasonable to say they were inert. I think that its fair to say that Mrs C can be 
classed as inert. I can see her buildings policy renewed year on year automatically and her 
contents policy renewed annually too with the only engagement being the phone call Mrs C 
made to pay the premium. I think the inertia point for the buildings policy came at the fifth 
renewal after it migrated to Aviva, so from the 2007 renewal onwards, and for the contents 
policy from 2014. 
But it is also important to understand what happened over the lifetime of the policies; why 
didnt Mrs C shop around and engage? Mr C has said Mrs C had no mobile phone or 
internet access. That means she was unlikely, and unable, to canvass the market herself for 
alternative policies. Equally, its also important to understand that the price of a policy will 
increase over time. If the price increases from the inertia point (2007 for buildings and 2014 
for contents) we think its unfair if the reason for doing so is because of a customers lack of 
engagement. So we expect insurers to explain to us why they have applied the increases 
each year (from the inertia point) and to show they were treating the customer fairly. 
I can see that we have asked Aviva about the two policies. The contents policy at the inertia 
point had a premium (£126) that was less than it was at the policy inception (£133.50). In 
2016 the premium reached £144.26 after which it decreased each year thereafter until the 
2020 renewal when it was again less than it was at inception  at £132.35. So with this 
policy there werent increases applied to the policy every year. 
And in 2016 insurance premium tax increased to 9.5% from the previous years where it had 
been at 6% so this accounts for some of the increase. And Aviva explained that various 
rating factors were taken into account and changed during this period which wouldve 
affected the price charged  for example changes in repair costs, claims made in Mrs Cs 
post code, the nature of claims made that year etc. But the price increases on this policy 
were moderate not excessive. And at several renewals the price decreased. I dont think I 
can reasonably say that the price increases during the lifetime of this policy (such as they were) were calculated to take advantage of any inertia or lack of engagement on the part of 
Mrs C.
With the buildings policy though I can see that the premiums did increase. So we asked 
Aviva why this was. At migration the premium (in 2002) was £269.47 but at the inertia point 
in 2007 it was less than it was at inception at £227.06. From 2008 the premium increased 
year on year from £326.43 to £563.88 in 2019. The jump in premium between 2007 and 
2008 being the largest percentage annual increase (31%) during the lifetime of the policy. 
Subsequent percentage increases were all single digit.
Aviva has explained to us that weather events, particularly flooding, in 2007 meant increased 
claims which in turn meant increases in premiums for all its customers including Mrs C from 
2008. And its explained that the buildings sum insured for Mrs Cs policy was index linked 
(so increased every year) so it sat on a different rating (to the Aviva direct policies available) 
along with the fact it retained £0 excess. 
Aviva has said there are many factors that it rates on that generate the premiums it charges 
including factors outside an individual policyholders control (for example the number of 
claims in a post code). Aviva has said the risk data it holds changes regularly and alters the 
premiums it charges. Its also said the factors it relies on have changed over time as it has 
gathered more insight and increased sophistication. But it has said that there has been no 
error in how Mrs Cs buildings policy premium was calculated over the years. 
I think Aviva has been able to explain why Mrs Cs premium increased from 2008 onwards. 
Every insurer will assess and price risk differently and Aviva has been able to demonstrate 
why the price had increased and that this was in line with how it assessed and priced the 
risk. So I dont think the price increases were unjustified, or in any way took advantage of 
Mrs Cs inertia or lack of engagement, such that can allow me to reasonably conclude that 
Aviva treated Mrs C unfairly. 
Its important to understand that this service doesnt normally assess whether a price is too 
high to cover a particular risk. Thats for the insurer to decide based on its appetite for risk 
and its business requirements more generally. So we wont normally say whether a product 
represents good value for money. We generally accept that insurers can charge what they 
like for insurance so long as they act fairly. Insurers each have their own view about the risks 
they are being asked to take on and how much they need to charge to do so. There are a 
variety of factors insurers take into account when calculating risk. These include factors 
directly related to a customer  like claims history  and factors that arent directly related to 
an individual - like the number of claims in the area a customer lives. Insurers constantly 
review these factors and they can lead to increases or decreases in the premiums they 
charge. How they gather, analyse and assess this information is up to each insurer. 
I appreciate that Mr C was able to obtain a much cheaper combined policy with Aviva. But 
the insurance market is a highly competitive one, and new policies typically include 
significant discounts in order to attract new customers  that is even the case where different 
products are offered by the same insurer. But that in itself isnt necessarily unfair. 
Finally, I dont think Aviva treated Mrs C unfairly by failing to approach her and offer her a 
combined buildings and contents policy at any point. The two separate policies Mrs C held 
renewed at different points in the year (and were administered from different parts of the 
business on account of how they had been sold). The policies Aviva sells directly are done 
so on a non-advised basis. This means it doesnt approach policy holders or make 
recommendations. Mrs C wouldve had to request a combined policy from Aviva herself if 
shed have wanted one. So, it follows that I dont think this is a complaint I can fairly and reasonably uphold. Whilst I 
think that Mrs C was inert, I also think Aviva has been able to show why her premium 
increased, and Im unable to fairly agree that was as a result of her lack of engagement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms C 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman