DRN-4467995
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined a claim made 
on a group income protection policy.
What happened
Mr M has the benefit of a group income protection insurance (the policy) through his 
employer, the policyholder. Subject to the remaining terms, the policy can pay out a monthly 
benefit if Mr M is unable to work due to illness (or injury) after the deferred period.
Mr M was signed off work with acute stress in September 2022. Legal and General 
declined the claim in June 2023 as it concluded Mr M didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity. 
The decision was appealed. In its final response letter dated August 2023, Legal and 
General maintained its position to decline the claim and Mr M brought a complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr M didnt 
agree so his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General has a responsibility to 
handle insurance claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions say that Mr M needs to meet the policy definition of 
incapacity for the monthly benefit to be paid. 
That means: the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the deferred period.
Its for Mr M to establish that he has a valid claim under the policy, taking into account the 
above definition. 
For the reasons set out below, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. I have a lot of empathy for 
Mr Ms situation, and I know hell be very disappointed, but overall, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Legal and General to decline the claim.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to conclude that Mr M wasnt 
incapacitated throughout the deferred period. Its not disputed that Mr M was signed 
off work by his GP during (and beyond) the deferred period, initially with acute 
stress and then around halfway through the deferred period, with acute stress 
reaction (or stress), multiple medical appointments and headaches. But the medical 
evidence doesnt give a clear picture of how these symptoms specifically impacted 
his ability to carry out his occupation throughout the deferred period. Thats whats 
required by the contract of insurance as set out in the policy terms.  So, being signed 
off work by his GP throughout the deferred period doesnt automatically mean the 
policy definition of incapacity is met. Thats because theres a specific policy term 
which Mr M needs to establish for a claim to be successful. 
The claim form Mr M completed in January 2023 reflects the following as being 
symptoms stopping him from working: acute stress, dizziness, headaches and lack 
of sleep. Im satisfied that Mr Ms symptoms were largely self-reported. There arent 
many entries in the GP notes from the deferred period, explaining how Mr M was 
feeling. The main issues being reported towards the start of the deferred period - in 
September and October 2022 - were a sore head, lack of sleep and feeling tired all 
the time. But its not clear how these symptoms specifically impacted Mr Ms ability 
to carry out his occupation at that time. 
Mr M was prescribed medication during the deferred period. That included beta 
blockers and medication to help him sleep. Further, he continued to be prescribed 
the same dosage of anti-depressant medication he was prescribed in the months 
leading up to being signed off sick by his GP in September 2022. So, it doesnt look 
like he required a stronger dosage to help manage his symptoms. 
In around February 2023  and towards the end of the deferred period  Mr M did 
have cognitive behavioural therapy.  The initial report dated February 2023 reflects 
that being away from his children was a key trigger for Mr M and theres mention of 
him having trouble sleeping and concentrating, unable to relax and feeling tired. He 
was assessed to have severe anxiety and moderately severe depression. Its 
reported that Mr M didnt feel able to work at the moment. 
Legal and General vocational clinical specialist also produced a report dated March 
2023, at the end of the deferred period. Their psychological assessment scores 
indicated that Mr M was moderately severely depressed and had severe anxiety. And 
concludes based on Mr Ms reporting today, in my clinical opinion, based on his 
presentation, he is unfit for work in this insured role at this time.
However, the February and March 2023 reports referred to above are from the end of 
the deferred period. They dont provide much insight into Mr Ms symptoms towards 
the start of the deferred period or why he wasnt able to carry out his occupation 
then. Im also conscious that the reports are based on Mr Ms self-reporting of his 
symptoms.
Although theres mention of Mr M being referred to a psychiatrist for assessment. It 
doesnt look like this had occurred before the end of the deferred period.  
Mr M has more recently provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a letter 
confirming that following a work capability assessment, his claim for universal credit 
has been accepted. However, this letter is dated around a year after Mr M was first 
signed off sick with acute stress in September 2022 and Ive placed less weight on 
that decision. Thats because I dont know what the capability assessment measured 
and Im not persuaded that this supports that Mr M was incapacitated, as defined by 
the policy, during the entirety of the deferred period. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman