DRN-4333768
The complaint
Mr M complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) restricted his accounts and 
withheld his money for an excessive and unreasonable period without explanation. 
Mr M says this has caused him substantive distress and inconvenience, and financial loss.  
What happened
In May 2022, Nationwide reviewed and restricted Mr Ms access to his accounts. Nationwide 
asked Mr M to provide evidence of his entitlement to funds deposited into his account. 
Mr M had received large sums into his account which he says were for investment into a 
start-up limited company he was a part of. And as the investor couldnt send funds from their 
crypto currency account directly to the company account, the funds were being sent via 
Mr Ms personal accounts at Nationwide. 
Mr M sent information to Nationwide, which included paperwork related to receiving funds 
from a property sale in 2019. Mr M was able to forward on funds to his limited company, but 
the other funds in his account remained withheld.
Unhappy with this, Mr M complained. In September 2022, Nationwide told Mr M it was 
closing his accounts. Once closed the funds remained withheld by Nationwide. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that it couldnt give Mr M a timescale for 
when the review will be completed, and he will need to speak to its fraud team about when 
any funds will be released. Nationwide said its actions were in line with legal obligations it 
must follow. Mr M referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators then started looking into Mr Ms complaint. In April 2023, 
Nationwide released the funds it was holding to Mr M by cheque. Mr M said he still wanted to 
pursue his complaint against Nationwide  especially as he felt it had taken an unreasonable 
time to release his funds. 
After looking into things, our Investigator sent both parties their opinion on the complaint. In 
summary they said: 
- Nationwides actions were in line with the terms and conditions of the account, and in 
line with its legal and regulatory obligations. Though they appreciate Mr M waited a 
long time for access to his funds 
- Nationwide didnt cause any unnecessary delays as it was entitled to block and 
review the accounts 
- Nationwide closed the accounts in line with the terms of the account and doesnt 
need to provide an explanation why 
Mr M did not agree with what our Investigator said. He says Nationwide has breached its 
legal obligations for how long it can hold onto his funds. He also remains dissatisfied that 
there is no compensation award for being deprived of his funds and the financial losses hes 
suffered. 
As Mr M didnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr M, 
so Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr M and Nationwide have 
said before reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on 
Nationwides actions regarding the current and savings accounts Mr M held with it.  
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Nationwide has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Financial businesses in the UK, like Nationwide, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Nationwide have provided me with information as to why it decided to review and restrict 
Mr Ms accounts. Having carefully considered this, Im satisfied it has acted in line with its 
obligations and done so fairly and reasonably. 
I note Mr M says he understands Nationwide has such obligations to meet. The crux of 
Mr Ms complaint is that Nationwide took too long in releasing his funds causing him financial 
loss, and substantive distress and inconvenience. So he thinks Nationwide should have 
done things more quickly. And hes pointed out that he provided the information Nationwide 
wanted quickly. 
I do accept it took around 11 months for Nationwide to release the funds held in the 
accounts. Ordinarily, Id expect Nationwide to have acted quicker. But I dont consider it 
would be right for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in excess of any particular or 
specific timeframe. Because Nationwide was entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it 
did in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. Given its concerns, and the 
information Ive seen, Im persuaded it acted properly in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr M says that one of his business partners had a similar issue with their bank, but they 
received the funds much sooner. I cant comment on somebody elses circumstances or 
issue, but as Ive said, and from what Ive seen, Im persuaded Nationwide acted in line with its obligations. 
I know Mr M would like an explanation for the blocks and why Nationwide withheld his 
money for as long as it did. But Im aware of no obligation under which Nationwide needs to 
do this. 
Nationwide is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But before it closes an account, Nationwide must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account. Having looked at the information given to me by 
Nationwide, which includes its account terms and conditions, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the accounts in the way that it has done. 
Mr M says this matter has caused him financial loss. He also says it has caused him and his 
family significant trouble and upset. I do appreciate this matter wouldve caused him 
difficulty, and I dont underestimate the strength of his sentiment nor the impact Nationwides 
actions had. 
But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I 
might make an award against Nationwide given I dont think it failed to properly follow its own 
procedures when it restricted, withheld funds and closed Mr Ms accounts. So Im not going 
to ask Nationwide to compensate Mr M for any financial loss or trouble and upset this may 
have caused.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman