DRN-4219208
The complaint
Mr D complains about the length of time it took Nationwide Building Society to say it wouldnt 
lend him the amount of money he wanted, for the type of property he wanted to buy. Mr D 
said Nationwide shouldve said this right away, and hes paying more now because it didnt.
What happened
Mr D said he applied for a mortgage with Nationwide, but it took three months to turn him 
down. He said that by the time Nationwide told him it wouldnt lend, rates had gone up. So 
instead of the rate he was expecting with Nationwide, of 2.89%, he could only get 3.59%. Mr 
D said hed added up what this would cost him, and it came to over £1,000. But Nationwide 
had only offered £50. Mr D was also unhappy with how long Nationwide took to respond to 
his complaint.
Nationwide didnt think it had made a mistake. It said Mr D applied with the support of a
broker. And Nationwide said that broker should have been able to see, on its website, that
Nationwide would not be prepared to lend Mr D as much money as he wanted, on the sort of
house he wanted to buy.
Nationwide said it did think it should have realised this sooner, so it was sorry about that.
And it offered £50 for that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said when Mr Ds broker
applied for the mortgage, they described the property as a leasehold detached house.
Although Mr Ds brokers did then describe the property differently, when they put in an
appeal against the valuation, when the second application went in, Mr Ds brokers again
described the property as a detached house. Nationwide later declined the mortgage
application.
Our investigator said Mr D hadnt received an offer from Nationwide, hed received a
mortgage illustration and a decision in principle. Neither of those was a commitment from
Nationwide to lend. And he said Nationwide had shown us its policy on lending at the sort of
loan to value Mr D wanted  it wont lend that much on properties like the one Mr D wanted
to buy. That policy is set out on Nationwides dedicated broker website. So our investigator
didnt think Nationwide made a mistake when it turned Mr Ds lending down.
Our investigator said that Nationwide had acknowledged it could have told Mr D sooner than
it wouldnt lend the percentage he wanted, on the sort of property he wanted to buy. But he
said he had to take into account that Mr Ds broker hadnt properly described the property.
Our investigator thought Nationwide should pay Mr D £150 to make up for its part in what
went wrong here. He didnt think Nationwide had to take any further steps because it took
some time to respond to his complaint.
At first, it looked as if both sides would agree with this proposed resolution. But Mr D then
queried the amount of compensation he would receive, and when our investigator clarified
that it was £150, not £200, Mr D said he wanted his complaint to be considered by an
ombudsman. This case was then passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my 
provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Although Mr Ds property was wrongly described on the initial application, Nationwide 
was aware of the type of property Mr D was buying, from around mid-May. Mr Ds 
broker described it more accurately and precisely then, as part of the appeal Mr D 
wanted to make against the valuation. So Nationwide could have refused this 
application then.
But, like our investigator, I think its also important to take into account that there was
information available to Mr Ds broker about Nationwides lending policies, which made 
clear that this application wouldnt be accepted by Nationwide. So I dont think I can hold
Nationwide solely responsible for the fact that Mr Ds application for a mortgage 
elsewhere (which was successful) only happened after his broker made an application 
to Nationwide, which wasnt successful. And that means I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Nationwide to pay what Mr D considers is the difference between the 
mortgage he has now, and the one he was hoping to secure with Nationwide.
But the mistakes made here have clearly had an impact on Mr D. I think it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask Nationwide to pay Mr D £250 in compensation, for the missed
opportunities it had to put things back on the right track for him.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D said he was happy to accept my provisional decision. Nationwide said it didnt have 
anything to add.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr D £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman