DRN-4323886
The complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream has treated him unfairly in 
relation to a loan he took out with it.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr S took out a loan with Lending Stream. As part of the application 
process Mr S provided Lending Stream with his email address. Regrettably Mr S made a 
typing error in providing his email address so that Lending Stream had the wrong email 
address on file for him.
Mr S was meant to make monthly payments towards the loan, but he made none. As a result 
he began to run up arrears on the account. Lending Stream sent Mr S four separate notices 
about the arrears both to his home and email address. Mr S says though he only received 
the last notice. In any event he was not staying at home during this period as he was staying 
with his partner.
Two days before Lending Stream defaulted his account Mr S tried to pay off his arrears. First 
he tried to log into his account online, but he could not as Lending Stream had the wrong 
email address for him. Then according to Mr S, he phoned Lending Stream to make 
payment over the phone, but it was unable to process his payment. Ultimately, Lending 
Stream defaulted Mr Ss account.
Mr S considers Lending Stream has not treated him fairly in relation to the default and wants 
it to remove it. Whereas Lending Stream considers it acted appropriately and declines to 
remove the default.
Dissatisfied Mr S complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr Ss complaint be upheld.
Lending Stream accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr S did not. In rejecting our 
investigators recommendation Mr S put forward several points which Ive summarised. He 
repeated his previous stance. Mr S also said all the notices from Lending Stream had gone 
to the wrong email address therefore hed not seen them. He told us hed contacted Lending 
Stream by phone, in time to pay off the arrears and that he had the money ready to do so. 
Mr S also mentioned that he had had previous loans with Lending Stream he had a perfect 
payment history with those loans and Lending Stream had his correct email address in 
relation to those loans.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
It seems Mr S and Lending Stream both agree that Mr S had made none of the monthly 
contractual payments to his loan. It seems that they also agree that Mr S gave Lending 
Stream the wrong email address, so that mistake was his. They also both seem to agree that 
two days before the account was defaulted Mr S tried to log into his online account but could 
not due to having given Lending Stream the wrong email address. However, it is not clear if 
they also agree that Mr S was not able to make a manual payment by phone at this point 
either due to Lending Streams systems being down.
The difficulty for Mr S is that I dont find that Lending Stream did anything wrong which led to 
his account defaulting. That means I have no proper basis for upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain below why I say this.
Under the terms of the agreement between the parties, Lending Stream was entitled to 
pursue Mr S for arrears and to default the account, if it gave him proper notice and the 
arrears were not paid. So on the face of it all Lending Stream has done is rely on the terms 
of the agreement which it is entitled to do.
Moreover the agreement and the relevant law and regulations allow Lending Stream to 
default an account  when there are at least three months of arrears as was the case here. 
And when proper notice was given. I recognise that Mr S tells us he only received the final 
notice. However, I also note that all notices were sent both by email and by post according to 
Lending Streams records, I think it likely those records are accurate. 
Given that Lending Stream had the wrong email address it is not surprising that Mr S did not 
receive the emails. But Lending Stream used the email address Mr S provided. And as far as 
I am aware it did not receive any non-delivery emails in return. It was also not obliged to 
cross-reference the email address Mr S had given it previously with the email address Mr S 
gave on this occasion. In the circumstances, I cant fairly say Lending Stream is at fault if Mr 
S did not receive these emails. 
Moreover, Lending Stream did not just send the notices by email although this would have 
been enough to satisfy the regulatory obligations around notices, it also posted the notices to 
Mr S. I accept that the copies of these notices that Lending Stream has provided are 
genuine. As far as I can see they were correctly addressed, and on the balance of 
probabilities I think it is more likely than not that they were sent. If the notices were not 
delivered in the post, then that is not Lending Streams fault. Although it seems odd that Mr 
S only received one of the four notices when they were all sent by the same method. If Mr S 
did not receive the notices in the post because he was not staying at his home at the time, 
then Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S told Lending Stream about his temporary change 
of address. Therefore its not at fault for sending the notices to an address where he was not 
living.
I dont think it is significant whether Mr S phoned Lending Stream or not. I say this because I 
am not satisfied that this would have changed anything. Mr S says he did have the money to 
pay Lending Stream on that day, but he has not demonstrated that he did. Mr S has not 
explained why he did not make his monthly repayments, but this pattern of behaviour might suggest he was struggling to find the funds which also suggests he was in no position to pay 
the arrears.
I realise that Mr S thinks Lending Stream is to blame for his situation but for the reasons Ive 
set out above I dont see it like that. Moreover, none of this would have happened at all if Mr 
S had made his monthly payments or contacted Lending Stream in a timely fashion to 
explain what was going on. None of that is down to Lending Stream.
If follows that I have no proper basis for saying Lending Stream acted unfairly in defaulting 
Mr Ss account. Therefore I have no fair and reasonable grounds for saying it must reverse 
its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman