DRN-3126684
The complaint
Mrs F complains about what happened when she transferred some money overseas, using 
The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op). She said this cost a lot more than she was expecting, 
and she thought Co-op should have given her more advice before she sent the money.
What happened
Mrs F told us she had asked Co-op for advice on how to transfer money to a family member 
overseas. She said that she was told the fee would be £13. She said she transferred a large 
amount of money, but she told us she was completely confused by the charges that were 
made. She realised Co-op had never given her any advice on exchange rates to allow her to 
understand how a transfer works or to prompt her to look around for a better rate. 
Mrs F said that Co-op was very unhelpful all along the way and she felt it confused her to the 
point that she lost money. Mrs F wanted a refund of the difference between the exchange 
rates Co-op used on the day against the exchange rates shown by the Bank of England for 
that day, and also a refund of the agents commission which she said was never mentioned.
Co-op didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had told Mrs F about the fees she 
would pay when she made the transfer, in response to her question. It didnt think that it had 
to proactively offer her advice about exchange rates. 
Co-op said it had processed Mrs Fs transfer according to its terms and conditions. It now 
understood that Mrs F had been expecting to get an exchange rate similar to the Bank of 
England rate, but it said it didnt offer that, and had never suggested Mrs F would get this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She understood Mrs F was 
upset that more money had been taken than she was expecting. But our investigator set out 
a number of Co-ops terms for Mrs F, and said it had acted in line with these. 
Our investigator also thought Co-op had done what it told Mrs F it would do, when she made 
an enquiry about the transfer before sending. Mrs F hadnt asked about exchange rate fees, 
so our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Co-op not to give her advice on this, 
or to prompt her to look at terms about the exchange rate then. 
Our investigator said the Bank of Englands rate is just used as a guideline by banks, and 
this is standard industry practise. 
Mrs F didnt agree. She didnt think our investigator could really think Co-op had been fair in 
how it handled her request and transaction. She sent us the message showing what shed 
asked Co-op. She accepted that shed only asked what the transfer charges would be. But 
she thought Co-op should have understood she needed advice generally about overseas 
transfers, and it had failed to point out all the various details involved in the transaction. 
Mrs F thought if we could set out the terms of an international transfer for her now, Co-op 
could have done that at the time. She thought shed been punished for not knowing how 
international transfers work. She said if shed realised she would be charged an exorbitant 
exchange rate, she would have shopped around to find out more. And she blamed Co-ops 
poor advice for her not having done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mrs F asked Co-op about making an international transfer, before she sent money overseas. 
She asked two questions, one about the mechanics of how to process the transfer on Co-
ops website, and then what approx charge would the transfer be?
Co-ops reply said that the fees for this transfer are as follows  minimum £13 for payments 
up to £5,200  Therell be additional charges added by the agents and receiving banks, 
these can be paid by you or the beneficiary, and vary dependent on the bank.
Mrs F was charged a transfer commission of £13, and an agents charge of £12.85. I think 
thats in line with what Co-op told Mrs F before the transfer was made. 
But Mrs F then saw much more money taken from her account than she anticipated. She 
had expected Co-op to use the same exchange rate as that shown on that day by the Bank 
of England, or perhaps one of the large foreign exchange companies. But she didnt get that 
rate, and her transfer cost her almost £200 more than she was expecting. This was mainly 
because of the rate Co-op used. 
I understand Mrs F was disappointed by this, but I cant say that Co-op has been unfair or 
unreasonable here. I dont read her message to Co-op as a request for general advice about 
how to get the best deal on transfers, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Co-op not to 
realise that what she really wanted was more general advice. And I dont think that Co-op 
otherwise had to offer Mrs F the sort of advice she would have liked to receive at that point. 
I also dont think its wrong for Co-op to use its own rate for a foreign currency exchange 
transaction. Its allowed to set its own rate. As our investigator said, most banks use the 
Bank of England rate for reference, but they are allowed to add their own margin on top. 
I think that Co-op has followed its own terms, and it hasnt acted in a way which is out of step 
with other high street banks. I do realise that Mrs F has been very disappointed in her bank, 
but I also dont think Co-op has been unfair or unreasonable. So, although I know she will be 
disappointed by my decision too, I dont think that this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman