DRN-2745195
The complaint
Mr T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc defaulted his account without contacting him 
by email or telephone before doing so.
What happened
Mr T had a credit card account with Capital One. He says he experienced personal and 
financial difficulties. In November 2017, he spoke to Capital One about the circumstances 
which had given rise to these difficulties and it agreed to put a hold on his account for six 
months. He says he didnt receive any confirmation about this from Capital One.
Mr T says he moved home in October 2017 and didnt receive any further correspondence 
from Capital One. He says it had details of his email address and his telephone number 
and he wouldve expected it to contact him using these methods. He says hes now found 
out that Capital One defaulted his account in September 2018 and recorded the default 
with credit reference agencies. He thinks this is unfair given that he didnt receive any 
notices that this was happening. He also says he wasnt given the opportunity to put a 
payment arrangement in place. He complained to Capital One.
Capital One investigated his complaint. It said there was no evidence Mr T had informed it 
about his change of address. It said he hadnt changed his address when he corresponded 
with it by email on 19 November 2017. In that email hed confirmed that the address held 
by Capital One hadnt changed. It said it didnt permit its customers to change address 
online and Mr T wasnt registered to use its mobile App.
Capital One said it had sent all of the required letters and notices, including a default 
notice, to the last address on its records. Mr T hadnt responded. So, it said it hadnt done 
anything wrong. Mr T didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said hed have expected Mr T to contact 
Capital One, after hed sent the evidence to support his application for a breathing space, 
if he didnt get any response. He also said it was Mr Ts responsibility to inform Capital 
One about any change of address. He hadnt done that. Our investigator thought Mr T 
wouldve been aware he still owed Capital One money but there was no evidence hed 
tried to contact it or pay anything further after February 2018. So, he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr T didnt agree. He said Capital One owed him a duty of care to contact him using 
his preferred method of contact  email or telephone.
Because Mr T didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says he informed Capital One of a change of address, during a telephone call, 
on 10 October 2017. I can see that he sent an email to Capital One dated 19 
November 2017 where he stated the first line of his address - which was the 
address already held on Capital Ones systems.
Mr T says he changed his address again at the start of 2018. I can see that at 
that time he did inform Capital One about a change to his email address. He 
didnt inform it about any change to his postal address.
There was an obligation on Mr T to keep Capital One informed about his change of 
address. Thats what he agreed to when he accepted the terms and conditions for 
his account. And the terms and conditions also make clear that although email or 
SMS can be used to send some messages, enforcement notices, default notices 
and termination notices will not be sent by email or SMS. So, when Capital One 
sent Mr T a default notice in August 2018, to his last known address, it says it was 
acting in line with its terms and conditions.
Ive thought about what Capital One has said here. And, I agree that it has acted in 
line with its terms and conditions. But Id also expect it to act positively and 
sympathetically in circumstances where, as in this case, Mr T had told it about 
personal and medical issues hed been dealing with. And hed provided it with 
medical evidence to support what hed said.
So, Ive looked at what happened after hed given it this evidence. I can see that it 
agreed to put his account on hold. It did that in November 2017 and it sent Mr T a 
letter to confirm this. At that time Capital One did hold the correct address for Mr T. 
So, although he says he didnt get this letter, Im satisfied it was sent to him at the 
address he was living at, at that time.
The letter, dated 28 November 2017, set out what Capital One would do to support 
Mr T for the next six months. It agreed not to apply any interest or charges. It also 
said no payments would be required during this time - although Mr T could make 
payments if he wanted to. It also said that the account was on an arrangement with 
the Specialist Support team.
I think this letter was sympathetic and positive. Mr T did make some payments after 
this date. He made a payment of £20 in January 2018 and a payment of £10 in 
February 2018. He made no further payments and didnt contact Capital One again 
until July 2020. He says he believed that his account was still on hold and hed have 
expected Capital One to contact him by email. Ill comment further below about Mr 
Ts failure to contact Capital One after February 2018.
First, Ive thought about Capital Ones actions after November 2017 when the 
account was managed by its Specialist Support team.
Ive noted from Capital Ones systems there is a record on 5 June 2018 which 
states Return mail status. Capital One says this means that either post had been 
returned or it had been informed that post was being delivered to an incorrect 
address. But, in any event, I think this wouldve put it on notice that Mr T wasnt 
receiving its letters.
Shortly after this, on 12 June 2018 the Return Mail status marker was unblocked. It 
appears that this may have been removed by the team dealing with trying to recover 
the outstanding debt. Subsequently, letters - including the default notice - were sent to the address on Capital Ones records. As Ive said this was in line with what the 
terms and conditions stated.
But, having thought about what happened here, I dont think Capital One acted 
fairly and reasonably when it unblocked the return mail status marker without first 
trying to contact Mr T. It knew about his personal and medical issues. And, it had 
an up to date email address for him. It was also the end of the six-month period 
thatd been referred to in its letter dated November 2017. So, in these 
circumstances, I wouldve expected it to make reasonable efforts to contact him 
and try to speak to him, at the end of that six-month period, to check his 
circumstances.
We expect a business to treat a customer experiencing financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically. I think, in this case, that wouldve meant Capital One 
shouldve reached out and tried to speak to Mr T to find out about whether his 
circumstances had changed. It wouldve known he wasnt receiving letters because 
of the return mail marker on its systems. So, in these circumstances, I think its fair 
and reasonable to have expected it to try to contact him by other means before 
taking further action. It did have his email address. It couldve emailed him to talk to 
him and to ask him for his current postal address. It didnt do that.
As a result, Mr T didnt receive important letters about his account  including 
the default notice which was issued in August 2018.
Ive mentioned above that Mr T didnt contact Capital One in the period after 
February 2018. So, he wouldve known there was still an outstanding debt. And, he 
couldve made contact with Capital One to enquire about what the current status of 
the account was. But, on balance, that doesnt change my view of what Capital One 
shouldve done here.
I think if Mr T had been contacted by email he wouldve had the opportunity to 
update Capital One about his circumstances. And, it wouldve been able to ask him 
for his address. If it had done that then he wouldve received the letters and the 
default notice. Those letters wouldve brought the seriousness of the situation to 
his attention and urged him to contact Capital One.
So, having considered everything here, on balance, Im not persuaded Capital 
One has acted fairly and reasonably in this case.
What should be done to put things rights
Capital One has registered a default with credit reference agencies. As Ive said 
above, Im not satisfied that Capital One did enough to try to contact Mr T to find 
out about his circumstances or to find out his current address, before it issued the 
default notice and recorded the default with credit reference agencies. So, I think 
the default should be removed.
That doesnt mean that Mr Ts indebtedness to Capital One should be written off 
or that the arrears on the account shouldnt have been recorded with credit 
reference agencies since November 2017. Capital One had told Mr T in its letter 
dated 28 November 2017 that it would continue to report arrears to credit 
reference agencies.It is the case that Mr T is still required to repay his outstanding balance. Id expect 
Capital One to contact him about this and engage with him in a positive and 
sympathetic manner, taking into account his current circumstances.
Mr T has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of what happened 
here. So, I think Capital One should pay him £100 by way of compensation for this.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc. In order to resolve this complaint, I think 
Capital One (Europe) plc should:
Remove the default it recorded about Mr Ts account;
Pay Mr T £100 by way of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened; and
Engage with Mr T in a positive and sympathetic manner about the 
repayment of the outstanding balance on his account.
Mr T responded to my provisional decision. He said he accepted my findings and the 
proposed resolution of the complaint. He said he was willing to engage with Capital One. But 
he said he was being hassled by Capital One to make further payments.
Capital One also responded to my provisional decision. It said it had reviewed the case and 
wanted to clarify the position regarding the returned mail status. It said the returned mail 
status hadnt been removed in June 2018. It explained that when the account was removed 
from hardship (after the six-month period set out in its letter of 28 November 2017 had 
ended) it hadnt been able to send a letter to Mr T. But it says it didnt remove the returned 
mail status from the account until July 2020 when Mr T contacted it with his new address.
Capital One said it had been corresponding with Mr T and it sent copies of recent emails itd 
sent to him. The emails stated that it was important that Mr T should make whatever 
payments he could afford to reduce the balance and encouraged him to get in touch if he 
needed support.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the clarification which Capital One has provided. But, it doesnt change 
my view that, at the end of the six-month breathing space, Capital One shouldve tried to 
contact Mr T. If it wasnt able to send him a letter, I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable 
for it to try to contact him by alternative means. It had his email address. 
It also doesnt change the position that Capital One knew, or ought to have known, that Mr T 
wouldnt receive the default notice sent to him after the returned mail status marker was put 
on his records. Although its clarified that the return mail status wasnt removed until July 
2020, it did send the default notice to the last address on its records. The default notice was 
issued in August 2018 and contained important information. As I said in my provisional decision, given the information Capital One had been told about 
Mr Ts personal circumstances, I wouldve expected it to consider contacting him by 
alternative means, before sending this important notice, to talk to him about his 
circumstances and try to get an up to date postal address for him.
When Capital One reviewed Mr Ts case at the end of the six-month period referred to in its 
letter of November 2017, it wouldve known that because of the returned mail status, he 
wouldnt receive the default notice sent to the address on its records. So, I remain of the 
view that Capital One didnt do enough here to try to contact Mr T before it defaulted his 
account.
Ive noted the recent email correspondence sent by Capital One to Mr T. As I said in my 
provisional decision, Mr T is still required to repay the outstanding balance. Id expect Capital 
one to treat him positively and sympathetically. So, he will need to engage with Capital One. 
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
about how this complaint should be resolved. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc. I now 
require it to take the following action:
Remove the default it recorded about Mr Ts account;
Pay Mr T £100 by way of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened; and
Engage with Mr T in a positive and sympathetic manner about the 
repayment of the outstanding balance on his account.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman