DRN-4441509
The complaint
Mr C has made a number of complaints about his residential mortgage account with Bank of 
Scotland plc (BOS). In this current complaint, which was raised in a letter dated 24 July 
2022, Mr C says:
BOS denied him flexible options known as personal choice facilities (payment 
holidays and additional borrowing) under his mortgage, and that he was given 
incorrect advice about the availability of these options and about the position of his 
mortgage account. 
He is unhappy that BOS continued legal action while he had active complaints with 
the Financial Ombudsman Service
BOS failed to provide him with support during the Covid-19 pandemic
What happened
Both parties are aware of the background to this complaint, so I will not be going into detail 
about what has happened. I think its helpful to note that an Ombudsman here issued a 
jurisdiction decision on 25 September 2023 explaining to Mr C what parts of his complaint 
we could and couldnt consider. 
The Ombudsman concluded that we couldnt look into the points about him being denied 
flexible features on his mortgage because an Ombudsman had previously issued a decision 
on the matter on 17 February 2022, explaining that the complaint had been brought outside 
of the relevant time limits. 
The Ombudsman found that the only parts of the complaint that we would be considering 
under this complaint, would be the legal action taken against him by BOS and the fact he 
said BOS failed to support him during the Covid-19 pandemic.
The parts of Mr Cs complaint that we could look into, were reviewed by one of our 
investigators. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint and he was satisfied that BOS 
acted fairly in the circumstances of the complaint. 
He said that Mr C hadnt made any mortgage payments to his mortgage account since April 
2018 and the mortgage account was in arrears. He didnt think it was unreasonable for BOS 
to start legal proceedings against Mr C based on the status of his mortgage account.
He also found that while BOS could have supported Mr C during the Covid-19 pandemic, he 
couldnt see that Mr C had actually asked for help. And he explained that BOS would only 
have provided Mr C with a payment holiday, or deferral, if he had asked for one  and he 
couldnt see that he had done so. The investigator also said that even if Mr C had asked for 
a payment deferral, his credit file would still have been impacted as he was already in 
arrears for a number of months which would have been reflected.
Mr C didnt agree with what our investigator said. In summary, he made the following 
comments:
He believes that BOS started wrongful possession action against him, and this was in 
breach of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules and regulations as well as 
the Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB) and the Consumer Credit 
sourcebook (CONC).
He said we allowed BOS to refuse this complaint stating that it fell under a previous 
final response letter (FRL) and this is wrong. He said BOS started possession 
proceedings in October 2019 so it would be impossible for BOS to have dealt with 
this under that FRL. He therefore believes the previous decision is flawed.
He believes that his original complaint points as well as other important facts have 
been overlooked and what the investigator looked at is different to his original 
complaint points. Mr C said his complaint is in relation to BOS being in breach of their 
contract and agreement and this hasnt been considered. He said the breach of 
contract and agreement is based on new evidence that we have never considered 
before and this complaint has been made in time. 
He disagrees that it was fair for BOS to start legal proceedings. He said under the 
FCA rules it clearly states a lender must not initiate legal proceedings where the 
lender is aware that the customer has submitted a valid complaint or what appears to 
the firm may be a valid complaint relating to the agreement in question and that is 
being considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr C says that BOS should 
not have started possession proceedings when he had active complaints with our 
service. 
He said both BOS and their lawyers wrote confirming that the matter had been 
placed on hold to comply with FCA regulations in order to allow his complaint to be 
heard but BOS continued with legal proceedings anyway.
BOS gave incorrect information in the pre-action protocol when making the 
application to Court in October 2019 by stating in a declaration of truth that he had no 
complaints with the Financial Ombudsman Service when they were fully aware that 
he had. 
BOS have caused him to be in the position he is in by causing him financial loss and 
detriment. Mr C said they wouldnt take his income for four years which caused him 
to miss his mortgage payments and lose more than £200,000 in equity. 
He had extreme exceptional circumstances which are good reason for an extension 
in time for his original complaint to be made 
He provided a timeline which was asked for which has been ignored. The timeline 
shows five reasons for exceptional circumstances which support the fact that he 
should have been allowed an extension of time. Mr C says he was clearly incapable 
of making a complaint by the date required. 
Mr C said that recent decisions and views are based on an inaccurate interpretation of his 
complaint and then misapplied making the decisions wrong, causing him an injustice, as 
many points of his complaint have been ignored. 
As Mr C disagreed with the investigator, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4F of the FCA Handbook to take into account the relevant law, 
regulations, and good industry practice when reaching my decision.Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont 
address each point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider most 
relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our 
service. 
Having done that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr C. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help him understand 
why I have come to this conclusion. 
Id firstly like to acknowledge that I understand that Mr C has been going through a very 
difficult time and appreciate things havent been easy for him. Its clear that he is very 
invested in this complaint, and he believes that previous opinions and decisions given by 
investigators and ombudsmen at our service are wrong. 
An ombudsman here has recently made a decision on the parts of Mr Cs complaints that we 
are able to consider so I must make it clear, that I am not going to be commenting on any of 
the complaint points that the ombudsman has decided are out of time.  I agree with what the 
previous ombudsman has said, and they have already considered Mr Cs exceptional 
circumstances  so I wont be going into this further. We have already explained why we 
cant consider some of the points he has continued to raise. 
So to be clear, the only points that I will be addressing in my decision are the following:
Mr C is unhappy that BOS continued legal action while he had active complaints with 
our service
BOS failed to provide Mr C with support during the Covid-19 pandemic
Ill address each point one by one.
Mr C is unhappy with legal action taken against him while he had active complaints at our 
service
For clarity, its appropriate to explain here that over the years, Mr C has had various 
complaints with the Financial Ombudsman Service which have been dealt with. BOS have 
obviously been aware of these complaints and Mr C thinks its not right that they started and 
proceeded with legal action while these complaints were being investigated by our service. 
Ive taken a look at the account history, and I can see that Mr C hasnt made any mortgage 
payments to his mortgage since April 2018. This is a significant amount of time without 
payments being received. 
I havent seen that any arrangements were made with BOS to try and rectify this, and I can 
see from the contact notes provided, that BOS have tried to contact Mr C on numerous 
occasions but were unable to get through to him. I have seen the letters that have been sent 
to Mr C advising him of the arrears, but nothing had been arranged.
I do understand and I do appreciate that Mr C was going through a difficult time, and he has 
explained the situation to both our service and to BOS  who were fully aware at the time. 
But Mr C didnt make any payments towards his mortgage, and I think BOS have acted fairly 
in this situation. From the information provided to us, I can see that they have put action on 
hold at various times throughout the last few years. 
I can see that BOS sent Mr C a final warning letter dated 1 July 2019 after weeks of 
attempting to contact him. On 2 August 2019, BOS said he raised a complaint with our 
service which was responded to in September 2019.  A hold was placed on any further 
action at this time. 
On 17 October 2019, as Mr C had not been in touch with BOS, BOS instructed their 
solicitors to start legal action. Arrears at this time were £10,012.80.A court hearing was initially set for 25 November 2019 and BOS said they were notified by 
our service that we had a complaint from Mr C so they cancelled the hearing and put further 
action on hold. 
In March 2020, BOS removed the hold and began possession proceedings again, but the 
Covid-19 pandemic happened so all action was ceased. They said that after internal reviews 
were completed in February and March 2021  they applied for a new court date which was 
set for 14 June 2021. 
BOS said that this hearing date had to be moved due to the backlog in the courts at the time 
after the pandemic. They said they had received notification in August 2021 that Mr C had 
escalated another complaint to our service  so any action was then put on hold again. 
They said a court hearing was applied for on 7 July 2022 and a court date was set for 26 
July 2022. BOS said that Mr C had told them that he had complaints at our service and 
another new complaint was registered on 8 July 2022  so the hearing was adjourned. 
BOS said that a court hearing was then set for 14 November 2022 which their solicitors 
attended. BOS said that at this point, all complaints with our service had either been closed, 
or ruled out of jurisdiction. But they said the solicitor was notified at the court that Mr C had 
brought another complaint to our service and the judge had said at the time, that a court 
hearing should not have gone ahead  but not because of the position of the mortgage, but 
because there were still open complaints at our service. 
BOS have said that Mr C still hasnt paid anything towards his mortgage since April 2018 
and the case criteria meets possession action. They said that Mr C hasnt demonstrated that 
he can pay the mortgage and even if they continue to stop repossession proceedings, they 
are not confident that his situation will change. 
Its evident from reviewing the information I have been provided with that BOS have on 
numerous occasions adjourned or moved court hearing dates when they found out that Mr C 
had complaints with our service. I think they have tried to be as accommodating to Mr C as 
they can be in light of his situation and the difficulties that he has been going through. 
But that doesnt change the fact that there havent been any mortgage payments made to 
the mortgage account since April 2018. The mortgage cannot continue to run without any 
payments being made. This is increasing the debt outstanding, and the mortgage is incurring 
charges because of this. 
I think that BOS have been reasonable in how they have dealt with this situation, and I cant 
agree that they have been unfair by taking legal action while Mr C had complaints with our 
service. The evidence suggests that BOS have taken this into consideration many times.
The Pre-Action Protocol says that a lender should consider whether to postpone possession 
action if the borrower has brought a complaint to us about the possession. Mr Cs mortgage 
has been in arrears for a number of years and based on what I have seen, BOS have 
postponed court action a number of times in the past. And because no payments have been 
made to the mortgage for a number of years, the debt is increasing so I dont think its in Mr 
Cs best interest that this situation continues. Our service isnt a mechanism to delay 
possession action and its up to the lender to consider whether they postpone action or not. 
BOS failed to provide support during the Covid-19 pandemic
Mr C has told us that BOS didnt provide any support to him during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The guidance for lenders which was released at the time by the FCA, set out what support 
they should be offering to mortgage customers to help them manage their mortgage during 
the pandemic. This guidance said that lenders were required to offer payment deferrals to 
borrowers if the borrower indicated they were likely to be affected by the pandemic. 
The FCA also made it clear that lenders were not allowed to report a worsening situation on 
a consumers credit file  if a payment deferral had been granted. Payment deferrals were only granted to borrowers who approached their lenders for help 
during the pandemic. It was not an automatic process as there were many borrowers who 
didnt need any additional support. 
Having reviewed the contact notes provided by BOS, I cant see that Mr C has contacted 
BOS to request a payment deferral or any other Covid-19 related support at this time. Ive 
looked at the contact notes to see if Mr C contacted BOS during this time about anything in 
relation to the mortgage, such as financial difficulties at that time, but I cannot see any 
contact at all. I can see that BOS have tried to contact Mr C about the mortgage, but there 
wasnt any contact from Mr C during the pandemic. If there was, it would have been fair of 
BOS to offer a payment deferral as part of the guidelines surrounding Covid  but if these 
specific conversations didnt happen  it wasnt for BOS to apply a payment deferral on the 
basis that Mr C may have wanted or needed one. 
As mentioned above, BOS did delay the legal action they were taking against Mr C during 
the pandemic which is what they were expected to do. 
A payment deferral could only have been put in place for up to six months. But this didnt 
mean that a lender wasnt allowed to report any arrears during a payment deferral. A lender 
couldnt however report a worsening situation if a payment deferral had been agreed. 
I therefore cant agree that BOS havent supported Mr C during the pandemic for the 
reasons already given.
I appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied that BOS have 
treated him fairly and reasonably under the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman