DRN-2835899
The complaint
Mr T complains Domestic & General Insurance Plc hasnt compensated him adequately for 
incorrectly taking payments for a cancelled appliance insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr T called D&G to take out new appliance insurance for a cooker. He 
wanted his existing, higher priced, cover cancelled. D&G set up the new plan but failed to 
cancel the old one as had been agreed. This meant payments for the old plan were taken 
from Mr T by direct debit.
D&G responded to a complaint from Mr T. It agreed it had made an error. It refunded the 
payments that had been taken incorrectly - £13.64 in total. It also added simple interest at 
8% to the payments. That was to compensate him for the time he was unfairly without his 
funds. Mr T wasnt satisfied with D&Gs resolution, so he came to this service. 
Our investigator said D&G had accepted its error and had already done enough to put things 
right for Mr T. So she didnt recommend it do anything further. He didnt accept that, asking 
for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. As a result its been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require D&G to pay Mr T any compensation or do anything 
differently.
D&G accepted it made a mistake by failing to cancel the cover. Having done that, Id expect 
it to take steps to put Mr T back in the position he would have been had there been no error. 
I think D&Gs done enough in that regard already. Once it was advised of its error it 
cancelled the cover and refunded the payments. It added simple interest to those payments 
 compensating Mr T for the time he was without the use of those funds. 
Ive considered if Mr T should be paid anything to compensate him for distress or 
inconvenience resulting from D&Gs mistake. I can see he had to spend some time sorting 
this issue out. But I dont think it was so significant, nor that such a level of distress was 
involved, that it was be reasonable to require D&G to pay him any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr T 
any compensation or do anything differently 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman