DRN-3102904
The complaint
Mr C complained that his claim for water damage under his home insurance policy with 
Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) was unfairly declined. 
What happened
Mr C found that his carpet in his living room was raised. Underneath the carpet is a parquet 
flooring that had started to rise. Mr C asked a local flooring contractor to inspect the floor. 
The contractor suggested the cause of the damage was likely to be due to excessive water 
from recent rainfall in the area, causing an area of the parquet flooring to blow out.
Mr C made a claim for the damaged floor to Ageas. Ageas didnt inspect the floor 
themselves but based on the information provided by Mr C and his contractor, it decided to 
reject Mr Cs claim. Ageas concluded the water damage was likely to be due to a slow build-
up of water over a long time rather than a one-off insured event that was covered by the 
policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think a recent storm had caused the 
damage through flooding and couldnt identify any other insured event set out in the policy 
that would cover the damage that Mr C claimed for. Mr C disagreed so has asked for the 
case to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas rejected the claim primarily because it didnt think a storm / flood had caused the 
damage to Mr Cs floor. I have reviewed this decision to see if I think it has been fair.
I have first considered if a storm caused the damage. When our service looks at a storm 
claim complaint, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Ageas said it consulted the MET office weather reports to understand if any storm conditions 
were present in recent months. This is a reasonable approach to understand the weather 
conditions at the time. Ageas said, As no storm conditions of torrential rainfall or flooding 
had been recorded in your area this incident would not be considered under those sections 
of your policy. 
I have used our services own resources to review the weather conditions around the date of 
the claim. I have considered the two weeks leading up to the claim made on 22 July 2021. 
Whilst I can see there was wet weather during this period, I havent seen any periods of 
significantly adverse weather which suggest Mr Cs property experienced wet weather 
consistent with a storm.
Therefore, as I have answered no to this question, I wont consider the remaining 
questions. I think Ageas has been fair in concluding the damage wasnt caused by a storm.
Flood / Escape of Water
I have also considered other insured events that Mr C might have been able to claim for.
I have reviewed what Mr Cs own flooring contractor said about the damage. The contractor 
said, due to the sudden nature of the lifting and expansion of the old flooring, in my expert 
opinion this could only be caused by a sudden ingression of water and not a damp floor. 
The contractor confirmed there were no pipes in the vicinity that couldve leaked. He said, 
after the heavy rainfallthe subsequent flooding had caused the issue.
I have already said the evidence doesnt support that a storm caused the damage to Mr Cs 
property. However, Mr C did think that a flood may have caused the damage. Ageas 
followed a reasonable approach in asking Mr C questions about the incident when he made 
his claim.
Mr C told Ageas that rainfall in the area had been heavy, however, he said there were no 
indications of flooding around the property or incidents where the drains that service his 
property had been overwhelmed with water. So, based on the information Mr C provided, I 
dont think Ageas was unreasonable in saying a flood wasnt the cause of the damage. The 
evidence showed there were no storm conditions that couldve led to flooding and Mr Cs 
own account supported that a flood hadnt happened.
Mr C was unhappy as the definition of flood is not set out in the policy. Where these terms 
arent defined, our service will take the everyday meaning of the word. The everyday 
meaning of flood in this case is an excessive / overwhelming amount of water. As Ageas 
has used a meaning not dissimilar, I dont think it has been unreasonable in how it has 
applied this term.
Ageas also considered the damage under the escape of water section of the policy. 
However, it didnt accept the claim under this section of the policy as there was no evidence 
to support an internal leak caused the damage. I think this is fair, when considering the 
account of Mr Cs flooring contractor. He said there were no pipes close by that couldve 
caused the damage. 
Ageas concluded that the most likely cause of the damage was a build-up of water / damp 
over a long period of time, which caused the parquet flooring to blow. I understand Mr Cs 
frustration that Ageas didnt send out someone to inspect the property. I think Ageas 
couldve done this, but it isnt essential for them to do this if it can gather the information it 
needs without visiting the property. Its also important to understand in insurance claims that 
the burden of proof lies with the policyholder in providing evidence to support that an insured 
event took place. 
As there hasnt been any evidence provided that has persuaded me that an insured event did occur, I think a slow build-up of damp is the most likely explanation of what caused the 
damage. This is consistent with what Mr C said to our investigator, when he noticed some 
damp on a wall adjacent to the damaged carpet when it rained during August. I know this 
contradicts the comments from Mr Cs contractor about a sudden ingression of water. 
However, his report was written over a month after the claim, so I find the other evidence 
from the weather reports and Mr Cs account to be more persuasive.
Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint, I think Ageas has been fair in declining the claim for 
the reasons I have set out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, I dont think Ageas Insurance Limited 
has done anything wrong. I dont require Ageas Insurance Limited to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman