DRN-4002455
The complaint
Mr U complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) has unfairly handled a claim 
made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill summarise events.
In September 2022, Mr Us home experienced a leak into his property coming from 
its roof.
Mr U called Astrenska, and says he was told he could hire a contractor to resolve the 
issue and claim back the funds from the insurer.
Mr U instructed a contractor who completed the repairs, and he sent the invoice of 
£1,092 to Astrenska. 
Astrenska declined to cover the invoice, and following a back and forth between 
parties over the next several months, it gave several reasons as to why it wouldnt 
cover the claim, including:
oThe cause of damage wasnt covered as it related to a fallen tree/storm, so it 
said Mr U would need to make a claim on his buildings insurance.
oThe repair carried out by Mr Us contractor was a full repair, and the 
insurance only covered temporary repairs as a home emergency policy.
oThe policy excluded general maintenance work, or any system not regularly 
maintained  which it said Mr Us roof hadnt been.
Mr U disagreed with Astrenskas decision. And while he acknowledged his contractor 
had stated the cause of the damage was a fallen tree/storm, he said this was 
inaccurate  a crack in the roof had allowed the leak and its cause was unknown. He 
also argued a temporary repair to his roof (as it was made of asphalt) would not be 
possible, so a full repair would amount to the same result.
The complaint came to this Service. Astrenska said it agreed the handling of the 
claim couldve been better, and it had potentially confused matters by relying on 
incorrect policy terms. However, it said the repairs were permanent and not 
temporary, so wouldnt have been covered under this insurance. It also referenced 
additional terms and gave further reasoning, saying the policy wont cover:
oAny parts or item that may need to be replaced as a result of wear and tear 
or gradual deterioration;  which it said applied here as the cause of the 
damage by Mr Us admission was unknown, so it was most likely due to wear 
and tear.
oAny repair that is, in our opinion, either difficult or impossible to complete 
due to problems with access needed to facilitate the repair;  which it said 
applies here as an elaborate series of scaffolding and ladders was required to 
reach the damage.
Astrenska summarised the policy is there to provide a quick fix solution to an 
immediate issue, and in the event of a roof leak it would involve climbing a ladder 
and placing a temporary cover over the area, to prevent the damage becoming worse 
 not to erect scaffolding etc. in order to allow a permanent repair to be carried out.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. She said the policy required a sudden and 
unexpected event to take place  which was evident here. She said Astrenskas 
initial agent failed to manage Mr Us expectations on the limitations of the policys 
coverage and in these circumstances, shouldve reasonably directed Mr Us agent to 
establish a cause before proceeding with works.
The Investigator was satisfied the most likely cause of the damage was wear and 
tear over time, and so Astrenskas exclusion was fairly applied. And that the need for 
scaffolding etc. wouldve reasonably made a temporary repair difficult or impossible 
in line with the policy exclusion it described.
But she said Astrenskas communication around the outcome of the claim and the 
time taken to do so was poor, so she awarded £300 in compensation.
Mr U disagreed, saying it was irrelevant how the leak happened so Astrenska should 
pay the full claim  or at the very least the costs of a temporary repair. And there was 
no evidence to support it was caused by wear and tear.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for the same reasons as our Investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Within this decision I will focus on the crux of matters and focus on issues that 
remain in dispute.
At this time, there appears to be no dispute that an insured event took place  that Mr 
U experienced sudden and unexpected damage to his home.
So, I have to go on to consider the exclusions that Astrenska has raised. If Im 
satisfied that any of these were fairly applied, then the others will fall away as the 
claim will have been fairly declined.
The policy excludes damage caused by wear and tear, gradual deterioration. In Mr 
Us own words, he doesnt know what caused the cracks that led to the leak, but he 
has been clear that it wasnt caused by falling trees. 
Mr U has said the cause should be irrelevant as simply, there is a leak. However, the 
cause is key here as it establishes whether or not the circumstances are caught by 
an exclusion. Mr Us contractor told this Service he believed the damage was caused 
by either a falling item onto the roof, or wear and tear. And given Mr Us own 
comments about this not being due to falling trees and no other evidence 
demonstrating the cause was due to some sort of physical impact, Im satisfied 
Astrenskas conclusion that the cause of damage was wear and tear over time is a 
fair and reasonable one. 
There has been further discussion about Astrenskas application of the term relating 
to the difficulties in carrying out a temporary repair. Given Im satisfied the claim has 
been fairly declined, this and any other policy terms Astrenska has sought to rely on fall away.
Ive gone on to consider the customer service and claims handling Astrenska 
provided. Its obligations are to handle claims promptly and fairly. And here, through 
its own admission, it has previously sought to rely on incorrect terms and shouldve 
been clearer on its reasons for declining the claim earlier.
I think its evident that Astrenska hasnt handled this well given its current reasons for 
declining the claim have been raised long after the claim was first made. And as a 
result, Im satisfied this has caused an ongoing back and forth with Mr U about 
matters that were largely irrelevant and have prolonged his hopes the claim might be 
paid unnecessarily.
Im also in agreement with our Investigator that the initial call agents agreement to 
cover costs was likely premature given the cause of damage was unknown  and this 
again has likely mis-managed Mr Us expectations. For all of the above reasons, Im 
satisfied a sum of £300 compensation is a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
matter.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay Mr U £300 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him when handling this 
claim.
Astrenska must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr U 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman