DRN-4204953
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund transactions 
she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Mrs H is being represented by a relative, Mr B, in bringing this complaint.
What happened
Mrs H says that on 5 January 2023, Nationwide sent her a text message asking her to call 
back in relation to recent activity on her account. It was then that she discovered several 
payments had been made from her current account earlier that day. Before it spoke to 
Mrs H, Nationwide had already blocked most of the card payments. It had also stopped a 
faster payment which it had been instructed to execute. 
Nationwide asked Mrs H about the payments which had debited, and she said she didnt 
recognise any of them. She was asked if shed received any calls that day and whether she 
had shared her card or log-in details or been asked to download software on her laptop 
under the guise of fixing any issues she may have been experiencing with it. Mrs H said that 
she hadnt spoken to anyone that day and hadnt downloaded or been asked to download 
any software on her laptop. She also told Nationwide that she hadnt shared her security 
details with a third party.  
Mr B reached out to the merchants directly on Mrs Hs behalf and some of the payments 
were refunded, leaving one debit card payment of £498 and five faster payments of £101.99 
each still in dispute. 
Nationwide investigated the claim and ultimately declined it, saying the payments were 
completed using Mrs Hs security details. For the faster payments, it said that online banking 
access was gained through a card reader using Mrs Hs card and its associated PIN. Mrs H 
said she hadnt used her card reader that day or shared any codes with someone.  
It later transpired that remote access software was found on Mrs Hs laptop. A complaint was 
made when Nationwide didnt respond to this additional information. It apologised for its 
service failings and sent Mrs H a cheque for £75 in recognition of this. But Nationwide 
maintained its position regarding the outcome of her claim.
Unhappy with Nationwides refusal to refund the disputed transactions, the matter was 
referred to our service. Our investigator concluded that based on what Mrs H had said about 
what happened and the technical evidence wed received from Nationwide, they couldnt see 
a point of compromise that would have allowed the payments to be made by a third party. 
So, under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  the 
transaction would be deemed authorised and Mrs H would be liable. 
The investigator said they appreciated that there may be more to what happened at the time 
of these payments. But without knowing, and based on the available evidence, they didnt 
believe Nationwide needed to refund the payments.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that this incident has left Mrs H distressed. Id like to reassure her, 
Mr B, and Nationwide that although Ive only given an overview of what happened, Ive read 
and considered everything weve been provided in its entirety.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; the codes of practice; and, 
where relevant, what I consider good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mrs H liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised the transactions herself. 
In this case, its not in dispute that Mrs Hs personalised credentials were used to make the 
disputed transactions. The technical data Nationwide has provided shows that her card 
details (card number and CVV code) were used for the debit card payment. For the faster 
payments, Ive seen evidence that Mrs Hs card and its associated PIN were used in a card 
reader to access online banking each time a payment was made. And the card reader was 
also involved in at least some of the payments (the ones subsequently refunded by the 
merchant concerned) to undergo additional verification. So, the payment transactions were 
authenticated correctly. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that authentication isnt, on its own, enough for 
Nationwide to hold Mrs H liable. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests 
that she, or someone acting with her authority, consented to the transactions being made.
To decide whether Mrs H  or someone acting with her authority  made the transactions, 
Ive carefully considered what shes told us about what happened. And Ive considered that 
in conjunction with a review of the available evidence.
Mr B has told us that Mrs H didnt speak to anyone else on the day in question. At the time, 
he also told Nationwide that hed looked at Mrs Hs call log and her last call had been nearly 
a week earlier. More recently, Mr B told us that he would describe Mrs H as quite scam 
aware and very cautious. And so, he doesnt believe that she could have answered unknown 
calls and used her card reader several times and disclosed the codes to an unknown 
person. Mr B submits that Mrs Hs card was likely cloned and used by a third party. He 
believes Nationwide should honour its Digital Banking Promise, which says that it will protect 
its customers and issue refunds if money is taken without their authorisation (with some 
exceptions).
I acknowledge Mr Bs comments and the strength of his feelings on the matter. But I have to 
consider all the information before me, including the technical evidence which Nationwide 
has provided. A card reader-generated code was used to log in to Mrs Hs account at least 
ten times on the day of the disputed transaction. And although the data doesnt show that every single faster payment also went through additional verification requiring a card reader-
generated code, I can see that some did. 
That means the physical card was inserted into the card reader, and the PIN entered, on 
multiple occasions to generate a code for logging in to Mrs Hs online banking or approving a 
payment. Card readers are universal, but they read the chip information on the card. To my 
knowledge, chip information cant be copied over to cloned cards. That means Mrs Hs 
genuine card would have been used to generate the card reader codes to gain access to 
online banking and approve some of the transactions. During the call with Nationwide, Mrs H 
said she hadnt shared her security information with anyone. And theres no suggestion that 
her card wasnt in her possession at the relevant time. 
Its also worth noting that although Mrs H has said she didnt log on to her Nationwide 
account until after it had sent her a text message, the technical data Ive seen shows that the 
account was accessed through an iPad just a few minutes before the first log in using the 
card reader-generated code. It is my understanding that the iPad belongs to Mrs H which 
she has used to access her Nationwide account previously. 
When the case came to me, I requested further information from Mr B through our 
investigator particularly about the remote access software that was found installed on 
Mrs Hs laptop and whether hed spoken to her about how that came to be. He said the only 
thing theyd been able to attribute any suspicion to was that a few days prior to 5 January, 
Mrs H had received an email purporting to be from a money transfer service asking her to 
click on a link to contact them as she owed them money. Mr B explained that Mrs H was 
cautious and didnt click on the link. She did, however, reply to the email demanding to know 
how she owed the firm money when she didnt have an account with them.
From what Mr B has told us, it seems likely that Mrs H received and responded to a phishing 
email. But if she didnt click on any links and share details like her card number etc., or grant 
permission for someone to access to her device, it seems unlikely that her security details 
were compromised at that point.
Ive given this a lot of thought. As Mrs H says she didnt disclose her cards PIN or her online 
banking log-in details to anyone else, and as her card was in her possession during that 
time, I cant see how the transactions could have been made without some form of 
involvement on Mrs Hs part. Given the steps required, and the number of times those steps 
would have needed to be completed, I find it unlikely that the transactions were completed 
without her involvement.
Like the investigator said, I think there may be more to what happened that day than what 
Nationwide and our service have been made aware of. But Mr B has recently told us that 
theres nothing more Mrs H can recall about that day. He says the first unusual thing that day 
was the contact from Nationwide. 
Overall, I cant say for sure what happened. But I only have to reach a decision based on the 
balance of probabilities, i.e., what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Ive 
weighed up everything and given the discrepancies and a lack of plausible explanation, 
I dont consider it fair to tell Nationwide to reimburse the transactions that are still in dispute, 
including under its Digital Banking Promise.
I recognise that Mrs H and Mr B will likely be extremely disappointed with this outcome. But 
based on the available evidence, I cant safely conclude that Nationwide has been 
unreasonable in holding her liable. Because of this, I wont be asking it to do anything 
further. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman