DRN-3713395
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to protect him when he fell victim to 
an investment scam and lost money.
What happened
Between 13 and 27 August 2021 Mr M transferred £9,450.19 to two companies (who Ill refer 
to as A and B) in relation to what he believed was a forex investment.
Date Amount Transaction type
13/08/21 £250 Debit card payment to A
19/08/21 £2,080.19 International transfer to B
19/08/21 £3,000.00 International transfer to B
27/08/21 £4,120.00 International transfer to B
Mr M later realised hed been the victim of a scam when he was prevented from making 
withdrawals from his account. He complained to Barclays that it had failed to protect him 
from falling victim to the scam. 
Barclays considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. It considered that Mr M had failed to 
carry out any due diligence before choosing to invest. It accepted the payment was out of 
character but concluded that even if it had intervened it wouldnt have uncovered the scam 
as it appeared to be a genuine investment.
 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt consider the payments were 
particularly unusual or suspicious when considered against the normal account activity. She 
noted that Mr M had made similar sized transactions within the last 12 months. She also 
didnt think the fact that they were international payments was enough to say the 
transactions should have stood out as unusual. She said that even if Barclays had 
intervened, she wasnt persuaded it would have prevented Mr Ms loss, as Barclays would 
likely have told him to research the company, which Mr M had already done. 
Mr M disagreed. He said the payment was out of character  he explained that the largest 
transactions on his account in the past had been moving money from a current account to a 
savings account, and a transfer to his daughter who shared the same surname as him. He 
said he made one other large payment, but this was to purchase a car. He considered that 
Barclays should have flagged this payment, but it didnt. Mr M also considered Barclays had 
failed to comply with the duties set out under CRM. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ms additional points but explained that she wasnt 
persuaded to change her opinion. She explained that given Mr M had made payments of 
£2,000 and £2,800 within the preceding six months, the scam payments wouldnt have stood 
out. She also explained why the CRM didnt apply, because the transactions were made to 
an international bank account.
  
Mr M still didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator previously set out. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but for 
the reasons Ill go on to explain I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
 
Im sorry to hear Mr M was the victim of a sophisticated and targeted scam and lost a 
considerable sum of money as a result. I can appreciate why he wants to do all he can to 
recover the money he lost. But I can only direct Barclays to refund Mr Ms losses if it can 
fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them. 
It is evident that Mr M authorised the scam payments totalling £9,450.19 from his Barclays 
account. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr M is presumed 
liable for his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, 
where a valid payment instruction has been received Barclays obligation is to follow the 
instructions that he provides. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. But a 
bank would only need to intervene and ask more questions about the payment if an 
instruction was sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account. There is a balance to 
be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments.
So, the starting point for me is to consider whether any of Mr Ms payment instructions  
taken individually or collectively - were particularly unusual or uncharacteristic, taking 
account of his usual usage. 
While the scam transactions (those made between 13 and 27 August 2021) were not 
completely in keeping with Mr Ms day-to-day account use, he had made at least one similar 
sized transaction in the preceding six months. So, I couldnt reasonably conclude that 
Barclays ought to have identified the transactions as uncharacteristic based purely on the 
amount. And as our Investigator pointed out, although Mr M hadnt previously made 
international payments, its not wholly unusual for a consumer to make a one-off 
international payment to a new payee. 
Ive considered whether the sequence of payments to B should have stood out as unusual or 
suspicious to Barclays, and again I dont think they should. While Mr M made three 
payments to B in total they werent made in particularly quick succession  the first payment 
was instructed on 18 August, the second on 19 August and the final payment was on 
27 August 2021. I dont think it would be reasonable to say Barclays should have identified a 
pattern from these three payments that was especially indicative that a scam was taking 
place. 
As I can find no reason why Barclays ought to have intervened before processing Mr Ms 
transactions, I cant reasonably conclude that it could or should have prevented his loss. The only other left to consider is whether Barclays met the standards Id reasonably expect 
of it in terms of attempting to recover Mr Ms funds from the beneficiary banks. 
 
As Mr Ms payments were sent to an international bank, Barclays could only make a 
recovery attempt on a best endeavours basis. This means that even if Barclays had done 
everything it ought to have done, there would be no guarantee Mr M would receive any of his 
money back as the international bank would be under no obligation to assist. 
From the available evidence, I dont think Barclays acted as quickly as it ought to have done 
in relation to attempting to recover Mr Ms lost funds. Mr M initially complained that hed 
been the victim of a scam in October 2021, but theres no evidence to suggest Barclays 
attempted to recover the funds until May 2022 - after the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
involved. But I dont think Mr M has suffered a loss, despite this delay on Barclays part.
 
Even though Mr M initially complained to Barclays in October 2021, this was still two months 
after hed made the payments. Given how sophisticated and seemingly well-orchestrated the 
scam was, I think its most likely following receipt of the payments, the scammers would have 
moved the money from the beneficiary accounts promptly  and certainly within two months. 
Our experience also shows that once money has been transferred outside of the United 
Kingdom it is unlikely that it will be recovered once a scam has been identified.
As such, I think its unlikely any of Mr Ms losses would have been recovered even if 
Barclays had intervened when he first complained that hed been scammed.
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr M being the victim of what was clearly 
a cruel scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct Barclays to refund his loss if I thought 
the bank was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. Everything 
considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Barclays liable in these circumstances. It 
follows that I will not be asking the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman