DRN-3361851
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard cancelled her direct 
debit instruction which meant she missed payments. Mrs T also complains about problems 
and delays getting in touch with Barclaycard. 
What happened
A payment claimed on 30 December 2019 by direct debit was returned to Mrs Ts bank 
account due to insufficient funds. Barclaycard attempted to collect the missed payment and 
follow up direct debit on 28 January 2020 but it was returned to Mrs Ts bank due to 
insufficient funds. Barclaycard says it then took the step of cancelling Mrs Ts direct debit 
instruction, in line with the account terms and conditions. Mrs T made a manual payment in 
January 2020 to bring the account up to date. But Mrs T says she wasnt aware her direct 
debit instruction had been cancelled. 
Barclaycard says it sent Mrs T letters and statements concerning her account and missed 
payment. The February 2020 statement confirmed Mrs Ts direct debit instruction had been 
cancelled. 
Mrs T missed payments in March and April 2020 and has explained she thought they would 
be collected by direct debit. Mrs T contacted Barclaycard in April 2020, cleared the arrears 
and raised a complaint. 
Mrs T has explained that she found contacting Barclaycard to discuss her account very 
difficult. Despite contacting Barclaycard online, Mrs T didnt receive responses from it in line 
with promises it made. 
Barclaycard issued a final response and apologised for the delays and difficulties getting in 
touch. Barclaycard said customers had experienced delays due to the impact of the 
pandemic on its operations. But Barclaycard didnt agree it had acted unfairly when 
cancelling Mrs Ts direct debit instruction and didnt uphold her complaint. 
Mrs T referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Barclaycard had dealt with Mrs Ts complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further 
action. Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators view so her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard says its normal process is to cancel a direct debit instruction following two 
consecutive payments that are returned unpaid. In this case, Mrs Ts December 2019 and 
January 2020 direct debit payments were both returned to her bank. I can see Mrs T 
manually made up the payment in January 2020, but the direct debit payment was returned. 
Im satisfied two consecutive direct debit payments were returned unpaid. 
Mrs T says Barclaycard shouldve done more to let her know what was happening. But I can 
see Barclaycard wrote to Mrs T in January 2020 to check in after her first payment was 
returned. And the February 2020 credit card statement specifically noted the direct debit 
instruction had been cancelled. Barclaycard also said Mrs T needed to make a payment by 2 
March 2020 and referred her to information about ways to pay. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T but Im satisfied Barclaycard did notify her the direct debit 
instruction had been cancelled after two payments were returned. I havent been persuaded 
Barclaycard acted unfairly when it took the decision to cancel the direct debit instruction. 
Mrs T has pointed to various examples of delays with Barclaycard getting back to her. I can 
see there were several occasions where Barclaycard failed to contact Mrs T as promised or 
in line with its correspondence. And I can see how frustrating this mustve been for Mrs T. 
Barclaycard has explained its operations were severely impacted by the pandemic and its 
ability to answer calls and respond to customer enquiries was heavily affected. I dont doubt 
how frustrating this was, but Barclaycard were operating in unprecedented conditions and I 
accept staffing levels and the ability to operate and deal with customers as normal were 
heavily impacted by the pandemic. So whilst I agree there were delays, I cant fairly say 
these were due to mistakes by Barclaycard. In my view, they reflect the environment 
Barclaycard was operating in at the time. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs T but as Im satisfied Barclaycard dealt with her complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman