DRN-2203825
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the length of time it took Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to 
complete her pensions review after it notified her that it may have mis-sold her a personal 
pension.
What happened
Mrs S was advised in 1997 to transfer her defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme into a personal pension with Friends Provident. Friends Provident is now part 
of Aviva. 
In October 2018, Mrs S received a letter from Aviva explaining that Friends Provident 
may have given her unsuitable advice to transfer her pension in 1997.
In November 2018, Aviva wrote to Mrs S asking for her authority to collect information 
about her so it could accurately calculate the pensions redress she may be owed. It asked 
for permission to obtain information from the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), 
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC), her previous scheme provider and her 
current scheme provider. Mrs S gave authority.
Between November 2018 and January 2020, Mrs S said she was sent letters by Aviva, but 
these were just standard ones, rather than being specific about the redress payable.
Mrs S raised concerns with Aviva in January 2020, because she felt that Aviva was not 
carrying out the pensions review calculation in a timely way.
Aviva responded shortly afterwards. It said it was still waiting on information from the 
other organisations, before it could calculate her pension redress. It said it would 
keep her up to date with the progress being made.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and brought her complaint to our service.
After Mrs S brought her complaint to us, Aviva offered Mrs S £250 compensation for the 
trouble and upset she had been caused by waiting for her pensions redress calculation 
to be completed. Mrs S didnt accept Avivas offer of compensation for the delay.
During the time we were investigating Mrs S complaint, Aviva completed the pensions 
review assessment and Mrs S accepted Avivas offer of settlement for the mis-sale of 
the personal pension to her in 1997. Aviva said the offer made was in line with the 
pensions review methodology.
 
Mrs S still wanted to pursue her complaint through us about the delay in completing the 
assessment. Our investigator looked into Mrs S complaint and concluded that whilst 
Aviva had caused some of the delay, it wasnt wholly responsible because it was reliant 
on receiving information from others to carry out the calculation. It appeared that from 
August 2019 onwards, Aviva had been waiting for information from the administrators of 
her previous work pension scheme, before it could carry out the calculation. Our 
investigator therefore thought that Avivas offer of £250, to compensate Mrs S for the 
trouble and upset caused by Avivas actions, was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. From the evidence seen, our investigator concluded that most of the delay 
was caused by waiting for information from the other organisations involved. 
Our investigator said she wouldve expected Aviva to chase up the information from the 
other organisations, to enable the review to be completed as soon as possible. But, in her 
view, Aviva had done that, and in a timely way.
Further, she said, that Aviva had sent Mrs S regular update letters between January and 
May 2020, keeping Mrs S up to date.  
Our investigator noted that it was not unusual for a pension redress calculation to take 
several months, or in more extreme cases, years to complete. This was generally due to 
the fact that a number of organisations were involved in providing information to enable the 
calculation to be completed. Further, she pointed out that the calculations were complex 
and need to be conducted by a qualified actuary.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators view and asked for her complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. She said, in summary, that she had waited nearly two years, for the 
calculation. And when it was done, it was based on assumptions in any event. Mrs S 
thought that if she had not complained to FOS, she would still be waiting. She believed 
she had lost out as a result of the delay because the redress was based on market 
conditions and currently due to the pandemic market conditions are depressed. 
Mrs S complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Mrs S found herself in financial hardship and that she felt the delay 
in receiving her person contributed to this. However, like our investigator, I think Avivas 
offer of £250 compensation for the trouble and upset it is responsible for causing is a fair 
and reasonable offer. I agree with our investigator that Aviva was reliant on other 
orgainsations providing it with information before it could carry out this calculation. I cant 
fairly hold Aviva responsible for how long it took other organisations to provide the 
information it needed to carry out the calculation. 
Aviva cant have known until it was told by these organisations whether information was 
available, that it would need to base some of the calculations on assumptions. It seems to 
me that Aviva did chase up the information in a timely way, so I cant fairly hold it 
responsible for the calculation not being completed until July 2020. As the calculation was 
completed in line with pension review methodology, I cant fairly require Aviva to pay    
Mrs S more than she has already accepted.
So, taking everything into account, I am satisfied that Avivas offer of settlement is fair and 
I leave Mrs S to decide whether she now wishes to accept it.
My final decisionAviva should pay Mrs S £250 for the trouble and upset it has caused her, if Mrs S decides 
she wants to accept it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman