DRN-2843549
The complaint
Mr Ks complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) refused to cancel his 
motor insurance policy after hed made a claim  even though theyd increased the premium.  
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr K took out motor insurance with Skyfire  for which he paid a total of 
£599.15.  A couple of months later, Mr K was caught in a flood, which damaged his car.  The 
car was written off.  Mr K bought a replacement car, which he insured with Skyfire under the 
same policy.  
In December 2020, Mr K replaced his car again.  He contacted Skyfire to tell them about 
this, and to advise them of a change of address.  The cost of these changes, including the 
associated administration costs, was £380.60.
Mr K thought this was too much and contacted Skyfire to cancel the policy.  He thought he 
was within a 14 day cooling off period so could do this without any penalty.  He says Skyfire 
refused to let him cancel the policy or refund a proportion of his premiums, because hed 
made a claim.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service.  When they provided their business file to us, 
Skyfire explained that theyd told Mr K there was no cooling off period in December 2020, 
because he hadnt bought his policy then  hed amended the policy hed had for several 
months.  And they hadnt said he couldnt cancel his policy.  But they had said he wouldnt 
get any refund if he did, because hed made a fault claim during the policy term.
Skyfire said this last piece of information was wrong.  They said because changes made 
after the claim had led to an increased premium, they could offer a refund from the date Mr K 
had said he wanted to cancel.  Skyfire calculated the amount of the refund due to be 
£316.49.  They offered to pay this amount, plus interest at 8%, to Mr K to resolve his 
complaint.  
Mr K rejected this offer and provided his own calculation of the compensation he thought he 
should receive, which amounted to £1,020, plus interest.
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded that Skyfire should pay Mr K what 
theyd offered, as well as £50 compensation for providing him with the wrong information 
about the refund in December 2020.
Skyfire accepted the investigators view.  But Mr K didnt  so Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint  but Ive not decided Skyfire should pay 
more than our investigator suggested in his view.  Ill explain why. 
Mr K wanted to cancel his insurance policy when the changes he made increased the price.  
And he was under the impression he could do that within 14 days of being notified of the 
new information and get a refund of his unused premiums.  So its not surprising he was 
unhappy when he couldnt do that.
But I dont think Mr K had fully appreciated his situation.  Ive listened to the call he made to 
Skyfire in December 2020.  Its clear from listening to that call that Mr K was under the 
impression he was buying a new insurance policy for his new car.  If that had been the case, 
Skyfire wouldve had to return his premiums, in line with the policy terms.  But Skyfire have 
said Mr K didnt buy a new policy  rather, he was amending the policy hed had for a 
number of months.  So there was no 14 day cooling off period.
I heard Skyfires adviser explain this to Mr K in the call.  So Im satisfied they made him 
aware of the position.  And I dont think theyve done anything they need to put right with 
regard to this part of Mr Ks complaint.
Ive relied on the same call to consider Mr Ks complaint that Skyfire wouldnt let him cancel 
his policy.  Again, thats not quite accurate, according to the call I listened to.  I heard the 
adviser tell Mr K he could cancel the policy if he wanted to.  But she explained that, if he did, 
hed lose out because hed already paid for cover until mid-2021.  And Mr K wouldnt get any 
refund for the remainder of the policy term, because hed made a claim, which Skyfire had 
settled.
That statement was consistent with the policy terms.  But Skyfire have since offered to 
refund Mr Ks unpaid premiums, plus interest, because the change was made after the 
claim.  And they accepted the investigators view that they should also pay Mr K £50 
compensation for not dealing with the refund earlier.  
Putting things right
My role is to decide a fair outcome for both parties.  So Ive considered what needs to 
happen to put Mr K back in the position he wouldve been if Skyfire had got things right first 
time.  And Ive considered the impact that had on Mr K  and whether he should receive any 
compensation for that impact.
Ive taken into account that Mr K had the benefit of insurance for the year  and that hes had 
a claim settled.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to direct Skyfire to pay Mr K compensation that 
amounts to more than his annual premium.
If Skyfire had got things right, theyd have refunded Mr K £316.49 (the proportion of his 
premium for the remainder of the policy year).  So they need to do that to put him back in the 
position hed have been in.  And  because they didnt do that as soon as they could have  
its fair they should pay interest on that amount, calculated at the rate of 8%.
And I think its fair that Skyfire pay Mr M some compensation for the fact they didnt do this 
as soon as they could have done.  I agree with our investigator that the right amount of 
compensation in this case is £50.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint about Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited and directing Skyfire to pay him:
£316.49 (the proportion of his premium for the remaining policy term);
Interest on £316.49 at the rate of 8%, from 12 December 2020 until the date of 
payment.  If Skyfire considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so Mr K can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate;
£50 compensation for the inconvenience of not dealing with the refund as quickly as 
they could have.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman