DRN-2726736
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that OneSavings Bank Plc hasnt offered them any 
compensation for the level of commission and profit share it received from their payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit share 
OneSavings got because of the PPI.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
issued some new rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So, to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
OneSavings have said that the level of commission and profit share it received for Mr and 
Mrs Ms PPI policy was under 50%. So, it says there wasnt an unfair relationship and it 
doesnt need to refund anything Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI.
Having looked at this, I agree. OneSavings doesnt have to refund Mr and Mrs M anything  
as the level of commission and profit share it received was under 50%. 
Mr and Mrs M have said OneSavings should be able to go back further into its records than 
it has. But businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely. Overalll, I 
am satisfied OneSavings has applied the rules it must follow correctly. And while Ive thought 
about whether theres anything about Mr and Mrs Ms particular complaint and 
circumstances that means OneSavings should do something different, I dont think there is. 
So OneSavings doesnt need to do anything further in Mr and Mrs Ms case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman
