DRN-2220790
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with what Countrywide Legal Indemnities Limited did when he contacted it 
about a restrictive covenant indemnity policy.
What happened
Mr M has the benefit of a restrictive covenant indemnity policy originally taken out in 2005 
through Countrywide. He says the following year Countrywide sent him a letter which 
contained inaccurate information (in particular a mis-spelling of his name). 
In 2018 Mr M got back in touch with Countrywide and provided an as built drawing relating 
to his property. He said his neighbour had encroached on his property and he wanted the 
policy to put that right. Countrywide said the policy number Mr M quoted wasnt the right one; 
it provided correct details. It said the policy was in force but didnt cover boundary disputes. 
The following year Mr M contacted Countrywide to again request assistance with the issue 
with his neighbour. It reiterated his policy didnt cover this and suggested other bodies that 
might be able to help. Mr M said he wanted it to provide a copy of an as built drawing 
supplied when the policy was taken out. Countrywide said it hadnt been provided with one.  
Mr M then said he wanted written acknowledgement of the as built drawing hed provided. 
He subsequently said he wanted the 2006 letter reissued to him with correct details. And he 
expressed concern that hed been given the wrong policy number. 
Following further correspondence Countrywide confirmed the correct policy number was the 
one it had provided Mr M in 2018 and the number hed quoted related to another property in 
a different part of the country. After further consideration it sent him confirmation that his as 
built plan had been received (though made clear this wasnt something it had requested). 
And it sent a separate letter apologising for getting his name wrong and quoting an incorrect 
policy number when the policy was set up in 2005. It confirmed the policy remained in force. 
Our investigator didnt think Countrywide needed to do anything more. Mr M didnt agree. He 
suggested cover had been provided for the wrong property. He said these issues had 
wasted his time for 12 years. And he wanted the matter referred to an anti corruption unit. 
Our investigator didnt change his view. And, as Mr M hadnt agreed, he explained the next 
(and final) step in our process would be review by an ombudsman. He said hed arrange for 
that to happen. He asked Mr M to let us know if he didnt want that to take place. Mr M didnt 
respond. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M is concerned his restrictive covenant policy has been insuring the wrong property. I 
dont think that is the case. When he got in touch with Countrywide in 2018 he quoted a 
policy number which related to a different property. Countrywide provided the correct policy 
number in response to his inquiry. I can see thats the number quoted on the original 
documentation from when the policy was first issued. And that policy does insure 
Mr Ms property. 
So Im satisfied cover under this policy has been in place for Mr Ms property from 2005. Its 
not clear where Mr M obtained the incorrect policy number from but Countrywide has 
apologised for any failing on its part. I think that does enough to put things right here. 
I know Mr M is also unhappy Countrywide wouldnt provide an as built plan or written 
acknowledgement of the as built drawing he sent. I think there may have been some 
confusion over what he was asking for but Countrywide did explain that it didnt hold a plan 
from when the policy was taken out. And it has now provided Mr M with written 
acknowledgment of the plan he supplied. It has also apologised for other service failings. 
Mr M says Countrywide should pay him compensation as its wasted his time for 12 years. I 
dont think that is the case. Mr M only became aware he had the wrong policy number when 
he got in touch with Countrywide in 2018. It clarified the position with him following that. And 
I think the action its now taken in issuing further letters and providing apologises does 
enough to recognise the impact on Mr M of any other service failings on its part. 
Mr M has referred to pursuing matters with an anti corruption unit. That isnt something that 
our service provides. Of course hes free to pursue matters with other organisations if he 
wants. However, for the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that there isnt anything more 
Countrywide needs to do here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because I think the action Countrywide Legal 
Indemnities Limited has already taken does enough to address the impact on Mr M of 
anything it got wrong. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman