DRN-4095604
The complaint
Mr H complains through his representative that Novaloans Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H took three loans and they are summarised here. Mr H took loan 3 a few days before 
registering with his representative that he wished to complain about irresponsible lending.
Loan Date Taken Amount Date Repaid Instalments
1 18/02/2021 £250 28/05/2021 4 x £90.22
2 16/06/2021 £300 30/09/2021 4 x £112.46
break in lending chain
3 11/08/2022 £300 4 November 2022 6 x £93.34
 
Mr H informed Novaloans of the following: 
Loan Reported Income after tax Reported Expenditure
1 £1,550.00 £561.00
2 £1,700.00 £704.00
3 £2,000.00 £1,005.00
After Mr H had complained in September 2022, Novaloans responded with its final response 
letter dated 10 October 2022 and it gave a detailed analysis of the information it had 
obtained from Mr H plus its own research into Mr Hs credit history and his credit 
commitments. That detailed table was set out in the FRL and as I know both parties have 
received that I do not duplicate it here. I will come back to these credit search results in the 
main part of the decision. 
In its FRL Novaloans gave reasons as to why it did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. His 
representative referred it to the Financial Ombudsman where one of our adjudicators came 
to the same view. Our adjudicator had treated loan 3 as a new loan at the start of a fresh 
loan chain and I agree with that approach.
Mr Hs representative gave no explanations as to why Mr H disagreed and sent no additional 
evidence but it asked for an ombudsmans review. Mr Hs bank account statements had 
been sent to us. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Novaloans had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Novaloans checks couldve taken into account several different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Novaloans should have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. 
Novaloans was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Mr Hs declared income and expenditure for each of the loans demonstrated to Novaloans 
that he was able to afford the repayments. And as I have got Mr Hs copy bank statements 
for the lending relationship period (they cover loans 1 and 2  not loan 3) I did view them to 
see if the income he was receiving was about what hed declared and it was. 
I do not have the application form details for loans 1 and 2 but I do not consider I need them 
as I have the summary in the Novaloans FRL which looks accurate for loan 3 and so I have 
no reason to consider that the details in the FRL would be anything other than accurate for 
loans 1 and 2. Mr Hs application for loan 3 included his declaration that he was single, worked full time and 
was spending around £600 a month on loans and home-credit. And Novaloans increased 
some of his expenditure to a more realistic figure as Mr H had not given a rent cost so 
Novaloans inserted a figure or around £352 to cover that anticipated cost. And this was 
despite Mr H declaring that he lived at home with his parents. Still the loan repayments were 
affordable. Mr H has repaid loan 3 on 4 November 2022. 
Mr Hs credit file details (summarised in the FRL) did not reveal any issues likely to have 
caused concern to Novaloans to the extent that it considered a refusal of modest value loans 
was the right outcome. The overall debt for each loan application was low  ranging from 
£651 at loan 1 to £2,175 at loan 3. These were not high debt levels. There were no 
indications of any insolvency issues.
Ive seen in the analysis in the FRL that Mr H had a satisfied and historic County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) and a default within 36 months of the first loan application. But these alone 
would not have prompted it to have carried out any further or more detailed research into 
Mr Hs financial position. Lenders such as Novaloans are used to receiving applications 
where there is some adverse information on the credit file and having seen all the other 
analytical measures it took in Mr Hs case I consider it carried out the right checks. 
It would have been disproportionate for Novaloans to have asked to review Mr Hs bank 
statements.
Overall, I consider that Novaloans carried out checks proportionate to the loan values and 
the position of those loan applications in the lending relationships (over two loan chains) and 
I do not consider it lent irresponsibly. I do not uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman