DRN-4035365
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Zurich Insurance Plc have turned down her claim for loss of rent 
under her Landlords Home Insurance policy. 
In the main Ive referred to Zurich throughout this decision for ease, although I realise Ms S 
actually dealt with Zurichs agent. 
What happened
Zurich insured a house Ms S owned and rented out under a Landlords Home Insurance 
policy. The house was damaged when a large branch broke off a tree during a storm on 18 
February 2022. The tree damaged the roof and a ceiling in an upstairs bedroom and  as a 
result of this  water got into the property and caused further damage to ceilings and walls. 
Ms S claimed on her policy and Zurich appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim. They 
agreed with Ms S that a contractor shed appointed could repair the roof with Zurich paying 
for this. They then arranged for a contractor to carry out the internal repairs. According to Ms 
S the internal repairs were completed on 15 June 2022. 
Ms S claimed for loss of rent, saying her tenants had to move out due to the extent of the 
external and internal damage. Not least because it simply wasnt safe for them to stay in the 
house, as the ceilings in the bedrooms were very wet and likely to collapse and water had 
affected the electrics in at least one of the bedrooms.
Zurich turned down Ms Ss claim for loss of rent on the basis that the house wasnt 
uninhabitable. They also mentioned that theyd found out Ms Ss tenants had been given 
notice and were due to leave the property anyway by 20 March 2022. 
Ms S disputed this and complained to Zurich. They issued a final response saying that they 
were satisfied their decision to turn down Ms Ss claim for loss of rent was correct. 
Ms S asked us to consider her complaint. One of our investigators did this. In his written 
view on the complaint he said he didnt think it should be upheld because there was 
insufficient evidence to show that the insured property was uninhabitable as a result of the 
storm damage. He also felt a temporary repair could have been carried out and may have 
prevented further water ingress and meant the property would have been inhabitable. He 
thought there was a possibility that  regardless of the damage  there could have been a 
period where the property would have been untenanted and Ms S wouldnt have been 
receiving rental income from it. 
Ms S did not agree with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She maintained the insured property was uninhabitable until the internal repairs were 
completed. She also said that the tenants only moved out because of the storm damage and 
they were not due to leave anyway on 20 March 2022. 
Having reviewed Ms Ss complaint I asked our investigator to check with her whether her 
tenants had been given an eviction notice to leave the property by 20 March 2022. He also 
asked her whether the property was on the market for sale around this time, as the loss 
adjuster acting for Zurich had suggested this was the case. Ms S explained that the property 
was not on the market, but theyd received an off-market offer for it, which theyd accepted. 
And this had led to them issuing the tenant with an eviction notice. She further explained that 
shed subsequently turned down the offer and retracted the eviction notice. She further 
explained that the property was re-let once all the repairs were complete. 
I asked our investigator to ask Ms S to provide confirmation from the letting agency that the 
eviction notice was retracted, but she has not provided this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ss policy provided the following cover:
Section 1  Buildings  Additional Cover
The following additional cover is automatically provided by the policy unless
amended by endorsement as stated on your schedule.

What is covered
This section of the insurance also covers

C  Loss of Rent/Alternative Accommodation
i) The rent you would have received but are unable to recover while the
home cannot be lived in following loss or damage which is covered
under the events insured under numbers 1 to 11 in Section 1 
Buildings  Standard Cover;
Or
ii) The cost of using other accommodation substantially the same as your
existing accommodation, which you have to pay for your tenants and
your tenants pets and horses as the home cannot be lived in following
loss or damage which is covered under the events insured under
numbers 1 to 11 in Section 1  Buildings  Standard Cover
 
This means that because there was damage to Ms Ss property caused by one of the 
insured events listed, provided her property couldnt be lived in and provided Ms S would 
have received rent if it was, she would be entitled to receive what she would have received 
in rent as part of her claim settlement. 
Ms S has said that the falling tree branch made holes in the roof and a hole in the ceiling of 
the main bedroom at the property. This is not in dispute, as the loss adjusters report 
includes photographs showing the holes. Ms S has gone on to say due to this and continuing 
heavy rain, water got into the ceilings, despite efforts to cover the roof. And that this caused 
significant damage to the ceilings and compromised some of the electrics. And its also clear 
from the loss adjusters report that the ceilings in at least two of the bedrooms were water 
damaged and bowed. There is no mention of issues with the electrics in the loss adjusters 
comments, but replacement of sockets and a light fitting was included in their proposed 
schedule of works. And I have no reason to doubt what Ms S has said about the electrics, in view of the fact water got into the ceilings. And if this happens it tends to move towards light 
fittings and can cause electrical issues. 
With all this in mind it is hard to see why Zurich considered the property could be lived in by 
Ms Ss tenants, who were a family with small children. It seems to me the ceilings in the 
bedrooms could have collapsed and this and the issue with the electrics would have made it  
dangerous to live in the property. So until both these issues had been addressed, which I 
can see from the schedule of works included replacing both ceilings, I dont think anyone 
could have been expected to live in the property. In view of this, I think Zurich should have 
accepted Ms Ss claim for loss of rent in principle, as her policy provided cover in the 
circumstances. 
In view of this, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Ms Ss complaint is that Zurich 
should pay her something for loss of rent, subject to evidence that she actually did lose it. 
However, I do not think there is sufficient evidence that Ms S lost rent for the whole period 
from 18 February to when the repairs to the property were completed on 15 June 2022. This 
is because the evidence I have seen suggests to me it is most likely Ms Ss tenants were 
due to leave on 20 March 2022, as they were issued with an eviction notice requiring this 
and  Ms S hasnt provided any compelling evidence to show it was withdrawn. 
I appreciate Ms S has said the notice was withdrawn and the property was re-let after it was 
repaired. But without evidence from the letting agent or other documentary evidence to show 
the notice was withdrawn, Im not persuaded that Ms S intended to re-let the property after 
20 March 2022 at the point it was damaged. This is because there seems to have been good 
evidence the property was up for sale either formally or informally and Ms S has admitted 
she issued the eviction notice with the intention of selling it. Obviously, if Ms S had provided 
evidence that the notice was withdrawn, I might have taken a different view. But, as things 
stand, I do not consider Ms S has provided sufficient evidence to show her property would 
have been let between 21 March and 15 June 2022 when the repairs were completed. 
Putting things right
In view of what I have said, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Ms Ss complaint 
is for Zurich to pay her claim for loss of rent for the period 18 February 2022 to 20 March 
2022. But this is subject to Ms S providing proof that she rebated any rent paid in this period 
and that her tenants would have paid more rent had they remained in the property until      
20 March 2022.
I also consider Zurich should pay interest on any amount due to Ms S from one month after 
she submitted her claim to the date of actual payment1. This is to compensate her for being 
without these funds. And it is from one month after the date of her claim, as I think this is a 
reasonable period to allow for Zurich to have investigated and validated it.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Ss complaint about Zurich Insurance Plc and 
order it to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section.
1 Zurich must tell Ms S if they have made a deduction for income tax from the interest they 
pay. And, if they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction 
certificate for Ms S if asked to do so. This will allow Ms S to reclaim the tax from His 
Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman