DRN-1613876
 
The complaint
Mrs L complained to P1 Investment Management Limited (trading as Strawberry Invest) in 
February 2019 that she feels shes been overcharged on an ISA held on an online 
investment platform it provided and this reduced the ongoing capital value of her account by 
around £1,200.
Also, she received a communication from the firm that provided the online platform 
previously, explaining how to reset her password so she could review transactions on her 
account before Strawberry Invest took it over in November 2018. This firm sent a link to her 
previous account, together with her user-id and an access code, without prior warning. She 
says she didnt request this information and, in providing it by email, the firm was committing 
fraud. In any event, she didnt want to search within two platforms for historic information to 
prove her case.
Having experienced problems logging-in to her account toward the end of 2018, Mrs L 
complained that a representative of Strawberry Invest couldnt make a capital withdrawal 
from the ISA on her behalf and this has led to delays in receiving that payment.
What happened? 
In November 2018, Mrs Ls ISA was transferred to an online platform provided by Strawberry 
Invest which administered it on an execution-only, or no-advice, basis. 
As Strawberry Invest held no details of her ISA before November 2018, Mrs L needed to 
have referred any enquiries regarding transactions on her account before then to the 
previous platform provider.
When Mrs L made her complaint, Strawberry Invest confirmed the current value of her ISA 
and the two monthly charges it made to the account for January and February 2019. It also 
offered to contact the previous firm, requesting it to provide historic details of her ISA, 
including all charges and transactions to establish whether £1,200 had been lost on the 
account.
Mrs L remained dissatisfied that it had taken two months to resolve delays in accessing her 
funds when her log-in details were changed and with general shortcomings in service 
support.
In response, Strawberry Invest issued a final response letter in which it concluded that:
based on the account balance Strawberry Invest received in November 2018, the 
reduction in capital value of her ISA since then of around £1,600 can be accounted 
for by periodic charges and the withdrawals she made, as set out in schedules it 
attached;
on receiving details of the charges made by the previous platform provider, if Mrs L 
remained concerned that she couldnt account for certain reductions in the capital value of her ISA before it migrated to Strawberry Invest, she would need to contact 
the previous provider;
although Strawberry Invest didnt hold details of her ISA before November 2018, it 
obtained some information for her from the previous platform provider. This was 
available to her in any event if she logged-in to her previous online account and the 
previous provider sent her fresh log-in details by email that enabled her to do so. This 
was legitimate, and wasnt an attempt to gain access to her previous account. But, if 
she remained concerned that this presented a data security risk, again, she would 
need to contact this provider;
the platform provided by Strawberry Invest offered an execution-only service which 
enabled Mrs L to effect transactions on her account without receiving advice. In other 
words, Strawberry Invest doesnt provide a telephone service for investors - the 
platform is intended for investors capable of making their own decisions and to carry 
them out online;
if Mrs L feels Strawberry Invest doesnt provide the type of service she requires, it 
provided her means of searching for alternative providers and, if it didnt hear from 
her within the next three months, it would close her account and return the cash 
value of the ISA to her;
it found that it had administered her account satisfactorily and within its own service 
standards and commented that turn round times for processing transactions within a 
stocks and shares ISA werent comparable with those when managing a bank 
account. Settlements do take longer to process, even if they are carried out through 
an online platform.
 
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with this response. It didnt answer her question as to what happened 
to the capital value of her ISA before November 2018. As her current provider, she expected 
Strawberry Invest to hold the history of her account and explain why the capital value of her 
ISA has reduced beyond the dividends and fees that have been deducted from it.
Strawberry Invest replied to confirm that it had provided Mrs L a full list of transactions pre-
November 2018, which included three withdrawals in September 2016, November 2016 and 
December 2017 over and above the natural income her ISA produced. If Mrs L didnt 
recognise these transactions, she would need to take this up with the previous provider.    
Also, it explained that the timing of charges can adversely affect the capital value of her ISA 
if these coincided with periods of volatility and poor fund performance.
Mrs Ls complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators, who thought it couldnt be 
upheld. Briefly, he concluded that:
Mrs Ls ISA was transferred to Strawberry Invests online platform on 26 November 
2018, which acts on her instructions on a no-advice basis. It wasnt responsible for 
any activity on her account before this date;
the charges applied since Strawberry Invest held the account were £70 and Mrs L 
made withdrawals of £700, £190, £370 and £132 in January 2019, March 2019, 
December 2019 and January 2020 respectively, during which time, the net value of 
her ISA has increased by more than £1,500;
the account appears to be in order and he found no evidence that Strawberry Invest 
had made any unauthorised deductions from her account;
 
All things considered, he felt Strawberry Invest had acted fairly in resolving Mrs Ls complaint 
and he wouldnt be asking it to do anything further. And he didnt agree that it had been rude 
or dismissive. In any event, as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, he couldnt 
comment any further on this matter.Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and didnt think it was satisfactory for him 
to ask Strawberry Invest whether it felt it had been rude to her and, when it denied this, then 
to present this as his conclusions. She asked her response to be forwarded to our chief 
executive as an example of our service failing to help people and, in the meantime, she 
wished to raise a complaint about the poor handling of her case, the time taken to respond 
and the quality of the response.
As no agreement has been reached over Mrs Ls complaint, it has been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to Mrs Ls complaint about our services handling of her case, this is being dealt 
with separately and Im, therefore, not addressing this issue in my decision.
However, its important to stress that we resolve individual disputes impartially, based on the 
evidence presented by each side. But, if Mrs L feels shes been financially disadvantaged by 
the actions of Strawberry Invest since it took over her account in November 2018, its for her 
to show us, on balance, that her version of events is the more likely.
Strawberry Invest is a separate financial entity to the platform provider which administered 
Mrs Ls ISA before November 2018. Therefore, I havent addressed in this decision issues 
relating to events that occurred before November 2018, or to actions of the previous platform 
provider after November 2018.
If, for example, Mrs L remains concerned about the email she received from this provider in 
February 2019, or that unaccountable capital losses have been made on her account before 
November 2018, she would need to make a separate complaint to this provider.  
So, my decision is confined to considering whether Strawberry Invest has administered her 
account satisfactorily since November 2018.
Mrs L has never said precisely what unexplained capital losses have occurred on her 
account, how or when these losses arose and, hence, who might be responsible for those 
losses. Having reviewed the statements of her ISA since 26 November 2018, which include 
all charges, withdrawals and ongoing capital values, it seems to me that her current account 
is in order and there are no unexplained transactions that might suggest any form of 
fraudulent activity has occurred on the ISA since Strawberry Invest provided the online 
platform for her to manage it.
That service is provided on an execution-only basis; in other words, it is Mrs Ls 
responsibility to manage her account online and Strawberry Invest provides her the platform 
to do so. It doesnt offer the facility for its representatives to accept instructions over the 
telephone from her and to carry out (say) capital withdrawals on her behalf. The withdrawal 
of £700 in January 2019 would have been made when Mrs L herself requested it online.   
Mrs L has referred to a series of issues, from logging-in to the platform to the provision of 
account information, without providing any details about the nature and duration of these 
problems other than they have existed for months. But, on reviewing her account while 
Strawberry Invest was responsible for it, I cant find any evidence that it has been 
administered less than satisfactorily.My decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Kim Davenport
Ombudsman