DRN-2338880
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to Mr and Mrs W. 
The policy was taken out with a mortgage in March 1995. The policy was paid for with a 
monthly premium and it provided cover for Mr W only.
Background
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds mis-sold them the PPI. Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint
and didnt agree with Mr and Mrs W and found that Lloyds did not mis-sell the PPI to them.
He explained that based on the evidence we had Mr and Mrs W had made it clear on the
application that they wanted the PPI. He also thought the policy appeared to be suitable for
Mr W, based on his circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators review of their complaint. As no agreement
could be reached the case was referred to me  an ombudsman  for a decision to be
issued. 
I issued my provisional decision in October 2020 and explained why I thought I should 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Heres what I said:
Mr and Mrs W say the PPI was arranged during a meeting with Lloyds. Lloyds has been able
to provide some paperwork from the time of sale. This includes the application form for the
PPI. I have reviewed this carefully and I can see that there is a section which asks Mr W
about his health at the time. Within this section there is a question which asks: Have you
received any medical or surgical advice for any injury or illness which has disabled you for
more than six weeks/months (the form isnt clear) in the past two years. Mr W has answered
yes to this. The form states if you answer yes to provide more information but I cant see
that this was done as no further details about the health issues are within the form.
Mr and Mrs W didnt provide details of any pre-existing medical conditions when they initially
contacted our service. However, we have since asked them about any pre-existing medical
conditions Mr W may have had given the details they provided at the point of sale. Mr and
Mrs W have explained that Mr W had a knee injury in 1994 and was off work for at least six
months. Based on the evidence from the point of sale and Mr Ws comments, I am satisfied
that Mr W did have a pre-existing medical condition. This means the recommendation made
to Mr and Mrs W had to take this aspect of their circumstances into account.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a policy document for the PPI that was sold to Mr and
Mrs W. In its submissions to our service it states that this was a Genworth policy and it
doesnt know a lot about these types of policies. It says that Genworth policies were an early
form of Mortgagesure PPI. 
In the absence of any details about the PPI I have to consider whether, on balance, the PPI
policy Mr and Mrs W were sold was likely to have excluded pre-existing medical conditions. I
dont think the form wouldve asked Mr and Mrs W about pre-existing medical conditions and
asked them to provide details unless it was relevant to exclusions within the policy they were
being sold. Ive also considered what we know in general about mortgage PPI sold by Lloyds
around this time. Based on what I know, Mortgagesure policies from around this time
contained pre-existing medical condition exclusions. And as this mortgage PPI policy Mr and
Mrs W were sold was an early form of this PPI, I think its reasonable to conclude that the
knee injury Mr W had likely wouldve been excluded.
Given Mr W had informed the adviser of a pre-existing medical condition at the time of sale, I
think this shouldve been taken into consideration before a recommendation was made.
Mr W had very recently had a significant time off work because of his pre-existing health
condition. I think Mr W wouldve felt this condition to be a likely cause of him having time off
work in the future and yet the policy would not have covered him for it. I think this wouldve
mattered to Mr and Mrs W and the policy wouldnt have been of good value as the benefits
would have been severely limited for Mr W.
Taking all of this into consideration I dont think the recommendation made to Mr and Mrs W
to take out the PPI was suitable. So, Lloyds should put things right.
I said Id consider anything else Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds wanted to give me  so long as 
I received it by 7 November 2020. Mr and Mrs W responded stating they had nothing 
further to add. Lloyds has not responded to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
In the absence of any new information or points from Lloyds, my final decision remains the 
same as my provisional decision. Lloyds mis-sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs W and their case 
should be upheld. 
Putting things right  what Lloyds Bank PLC needs to do
Lloyds should put Mr and Mrs W back in the position shed in now if they hadnt taken out
PPI. Lloyds should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful claim under the policy, Lloyds can take off what 
they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give
Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC 
should put things right for Mr and Mrs W as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman