DRN-3436248
The complaint
Mr O complains Bank of Ireland (UK) plc (BOI) refused to accept a final settlement figure on 
his outstanding debt having previously agreed to do so.
What happened
Mr O had previously held two buy to let mortgages (BTL) with BOI but having fallen into 
financial difficulties, these properties were repossessed and sold by BOI in 2011. This left a 
sizeable shortfall of in excess of £214,000 at that time. Mr O says he agreed a full and final 
settlement offer of £15,000  in early 2012 and latterly in September 2020. Mr O says BOI will 
not accept this offer and says it has no recollection of ever agreeing to this in September 
2020.
Mr O says despite him asking for copies of the phone call in September 2020, BOI have not 
been able to provide this to him. Mr O would like BOI to accept the £15,000 as a full and final 
settlement of his debt with them, as they had previously agreed to. 
BOI says £15,000 was never formally agreed and they have no records or telephone calls in 
September 2020 to show it did. BOI says any previous agreements made with Mr O in 2012 
are not relevant today and any agreement then would have been subject to an income and 
expenditure (I&E) form being completed and assessed at that time, but this was never 
received. BOI says any agreement to a full and final settlement would need the approval of 
its senior management team and written confirmation would be issued. BOI says it is now for 
Mr O to propose a full and final settlement offer and this can be considered by its mortgage 
debt management team.  
Mr O wasnt happy with BOIs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says a £15,000 settlement was proposed by Mr O in 2012, but there was no 
evidence to show this had been approved and this would need to have been accepted by 
BOI in writing. The investigator says in 2012 BOI agreed token repayments but these werent 
met, and a new arrangement was agreed later that year, and these were paid until March 
2018. The investigator says he listened to phone recordings from February 2021, during 
which BOI asked for an updated I&E, but this wasnt completed and following this legal 
action was initiated.
The investigator says for BOI to agree to a full and final settlement, this would need to be 
approved in writing to Mr O, but this never happened. The investigator couldnt see any 
evidence of a phone call that Mr O says took pace in September 2020, where BOI agreed to 
accept £15,000 as a full and final settlement and BOI state there was no record of this either. 
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can see that Mr O has gone through a difficult few years, and this was made even more 
challenging following the Covid pandemic and this must have been a stressful time for him. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if BOI had agreed to accept a full and final 
settlement of £15,000 to clear his outstanding debt with them and whether it must now 
accept that offer.  
I should say that both parties have provided comprehensive details regarding this complaint 
including a number of telephone call recordings. While these have proved helpful, I wont be 
commenting on every piece of information provided  thats not to say I havent considered 
these - I have. 
Mr Os complaint centres around the fact BOI had previously agreed both in 2012 and in a 
more recent telephone conversation in September 2020, a full and final settlement offer of 
£15,000, for his residual outstanding debt on two BTLs that had been repossessed and sold 
by BOI in 2011. 
This service has obtained several telephone call recordings dated February 2021, but we 
have not been provided with any call recordings for September 2020, as BOI have no record 
of such, nor do any of the file notes we have seen for that time, refer to any such calls. While 
I understand Mr O feels strongly this telephone call took place and should be made 
available, unfortunately it isnt possible for me to comment on something we have no 
evidence of. 
While from the notes it appears that back in 2011 following the sale of the two buy to let 
properties mortgaged to BOI, discussions were held with Mr O regarding an offer of £15,000 
as a full and final settlement, this was subject to him completing an I&E profile but from what 
I have seen this was never completed. A token payment arrangement was put in place at 
that time which continued for some time after. 
This service has seen various contact notes provided by BOI, showing numerous attempts 
over the years to telephone and email Mr O regarding the outstanding debt, but these seem 
mostly to have been without reply. Its fair to say over some of this time, Mr O had been 
suffering the consequences of the Covid pandemic and I was sorry to learn of the loss of 
family members which would have been difficult for him and could have been why such 
communications werent responded to. 
That said, I cant see any evidence to show in September 2020 or more recently in the 
telephone conversations Mr O held with BOI in February 2021, that it agreed to accept a 
£15,000 payment as a  full and final settlement for his outstanding debt, even if Mr O 
believes it had. 
Its fair to say even if discussions had taken place about acceptance of the full and final 
settlement, and I cant find any evidence to show it had, BOI wouldnt have in all probability 
agreed to such an important matter verbally or without it first being signed off by its senior 
management team and then put in writing to Mr O  I cant see that has ever happened here. All I can say is in July 2021, BOI did accept Mr Os proposal of £50 per month with an annual 
review but declined his offer of £15,000 as a final settlement. 
With that in mind I cant tell BOI it must now accept Mr Os offer of £15,000 even if that may 
have been proposed several years back, for the reasons I have already explained. 
I can see BOI have halted any legal proceedings whilst this complaint was ongoing, and it 
would be in Mr Os interest to now contact BOI to discuss the way forward. 
While Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of BOI.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman