DRN-2411834
The complaint
Mrs J represents the estate of Mr and Mrs M. Mrs J complains that Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) have not been able to provide proof that a bond belonging to the estate 
of Mr and Mrs M was paid out. Mrs J believes that the bond was not paid out.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a bond with Nationwide in September 1980. The bond was issued 
with an initial term of five years. When Mrs J was dealing with the estate of Mr and Mrs M, 
she found the bond certificate.
Mrs J contacted Nationwide to ask about the bond, but Nationwide were unable to confirm 
any details and said that they dont keep records on closed accounts for more than 6 years. 
Nationwide issued Mrs J with a final response to her complaint and did not uphold her 
complaint.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mrs J referred the complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator did not think that Nationwide had 
acted unfairly in saying that it didnt have any record of the bond. The investigator did not 
uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs J has asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mrs J feels strongly about the complaint and 
I will explain why I have reached this decision.
The bond was issued in 1980 and Mrs J has a copy of the bond certificate. The certificate 
records the holders of the bond and the terms on which it was issued. That the bond 
belonged to the estate of Mr and Mrs M is not disputed. The complaint comes down to the 
two points below:
Was the bond paid out to Mr and Mrs M at the end of the term?
Mrs J has the bond certificate and is this evidence that the bond is still active?
Nationwide say in their submission that the cant find any reference of the bond on their 
internal systems. They say that their business practice is to remove records on accounts that 
have been closed for over six years.
I think that this practice is common with many businesses and the fact that no records exist 
does give an indication that the account used previously by Mr and Mrs M was closed.
Nationwide have confirmed that the only records that they have are in relation to the 
complaint raised by Mrs J  no other records exist. They said that it is likely that Mr and Mrs 
M either re-invested the money or the money was paid out.
In her submission to the service, Mrs J has said that when she was dealing with the estate of 
Mr and Mrs M, she came across the bond certificate. She says that she was aware of the 
bonds existence as she dealt with the affairs of Mr and Mrs M but did not think that it had 
been cashed.
Mrs J says that as she has the bond certificate this should give evidence that the bond still 
exists. Nationwide has said that just because the bond certificate exists, doesnt mean that 
the bond continues to be open.
Mrs J has said that the bond certificate was held in safe custody by another provider and 
there would have been no need to keep if the bond had been paid out. 
I have looked at the bond certificate and the conditions that are shown. It does give some 
indication what will happen at the end of term  it says:
no notice of maturity will be sent
if written notice is not given by the bondholder then then the bond will be extended and 
will earn interest
at the end of the term, the bondholder has the right to withdraw the investment
at the end of the terms, the Society can repay the investment in full with accrued interest 
As the bond was taken out in 1980 and no records exist other than the actual certificate, I 
need to look at what is likely to have happened on the balance of probability. 
I have reviewed what limited documentation is available and I think that on the balance of 
probability, the bond matured and was paid out. If the bond was still in existence, it would be 
accruing interest until either the bondholder cashed it in, or the Society repaid the 
investment.
Nationwide have no record of the bond and if it was still accruing interest and no party had 
given notice to close the bond, then I would expect to see a record on Nationwides internal 
system. As no record exists, I need to assume that that the bond matured and was paid out.
I acknowledge that Mrs J says there would be no reason to keep the certificate if it had been 
paid out, but I think on balance, there is no evidence to suggest that the bond is still active.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mrs 
M and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman