DRN-2105964
The complaint
This complaint is about the poor service Mr H says he received from Standard Life Savings 
Limited (Standard Life) when he wanted to draw the benefits from his personal pension. 
What happened
Mr H held a pension with Standard Life. He wanted to find out his options for drawing his 
benefits from the plan, so in February 2020 he contacted Standard Life. It was agreed that 
Standard Life would send Mr H some information and an appointment was made to discuss 
the options on 7 March 2020. Mr H says the meeting was arranged for 8.30 am and 
Standard Life said it was an appointment slot for between 8.30 and 10 am.
 
On the day in question Standard Life called Mr H at 9.10 am. Mr H said that as the adviser 
was late in calling, he might not be able to complete the call as he needed to go out later that 
morning. During the call Mr H confirmed that he wanted to take the Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension (GMP) offered by Standard Life which he said contained a five-year guarantee. The 
adviser said the option didnt contain such a guarantee but that he would need to get further 
information for Mr H and some new illustrations and make another appointment. Mr H was 
disappointed that the figures werent immediately available. 
Also, during the call, the adviser asked Mr H if he was happy with his personal data being 
shared with other parts of the Standard Life group. Mr H wasnt happy with that request as 
he believed he knew what pension he required and could see no reason for Standard Life to 
have to liaise with other parts of the business (accounts excepted) in order to pay his 
annuity.
Following further conversations, Standard Life explained that, as there was shortfall in the 
value of the fund required to pay the GMP, other ancillary benefits such as the five-year 
guarantee wouldnt be available within Mr Hs annuity. So Mr H complained about his 
inability to access his benefits in the way he wanted, and about the service hed received 
from Standard Lifes telephone team while he was trying to draw his benefits.
The complaint about the five-year guarantee was answered by another part of Standard Life 
and Ill give my decision on that complaint under a separate cover.
But Standard Life didnt uphold the complaint about its service. It said it had booked an 
appointment slot with Mr H on 7 March 2020 and couldnt accurately say it would call at 
exactly 8.30 am. It thought the time that it made the actual call was reasonable in the 
circumstances. It also explained that as the GMP payable from Mr Hs fund increases each 
week, it needs to update its quotations regularly to ensure accuracy. This requires some 
manual involvement when undertaking the calculations and was the reason it couldnt 
provide Mr H with immediate figures during the phone call. 
But Mr H wasnt satisfied with the response and brought his complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. She said Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld, 
making the following points:
Standard Life could have been clearer in its explanation around its appointment slots. 
But she thought its apology was sufficient and the matter didnt warrant financial 
compensation.
Standard Life had removed Mr Hs mobile phone number from its records following 
the problems Mr H had with his phone line.
Mr H had expressed concern about his data being used within Standard Lifes group 
of companies. She explained that this was necessary within large companies in order 
to deal with different aspects of a plan. She didnt think Standard Life had done 
anything wrong in asking for Mr Hs permission to share his data.
It wasnt unusual for a company to have to produce manual calculations for more 
complex plans and then send those quotations in the post. She thought that was 
reasonable as long as the illustration provided the information requested.
Mr H didnt agree. He made the following points:
It wasnt made clear that the call was supposed to be from 8.30, the agreement was 
that it would be at 8.30. He thought Standard Life ought to have kept to the specified 
time as the appointment had been arranged previously.
As the investigator had agreed Standard Life could have been clearer in its 
explanation of the appointment system, he thought it should have paid him 
compensation. He didnt agree that a simple apology was sufficient. 
There were too many people in different departments dealing with aspects of his 
policy. He wanted to be able to speak with just one person.
He thought it should be possible to provide immediate update quotes for the GMP. 
He didnt understand why Standard Life needed to carry out manual calculations. 
He hadnt seen any increase in his GMP in recent illustrations  which he didnt think 
was correct.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion although she did confirm that Mr H 
could contact Standard Life to discuss the adjustments to his GMP.
Mr H said that he thought a compensatory amount of around £200 was fair for the distress 
and inconvenience hed been caused by the poor service. He also though Standard Life 
should be made to overhaul its practices and procedures. 
So, as no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I know 
this outcome will disappoint Mr H  so Ill explain my reasons.
This aspect of Mr Hs overall complaint against Standard Life stems from the phone 
conversations he had in February and March 2020, while he was attempting to draw his 
pensions. Mr H says Standard Life was late in calling him for the first appointment, wasnt 
prepared for the appointment and couldnt provide the figures he required during the call. 
He was also unhappy about being asked if his personal data could be shared within 
Standard Lifes organisation especially as he knew which pension option he wanted to take.So, Ive listened carefully to those calls. And I note when Mr H was asked what time would 
suit him for the call, the adviser said that it would be from 8.30 until 10 am but its likely to 
be at 8.30 because thats one of our first slots. So I dont think Standard Life did guarantee 
the call would be at 8.30 am  but I think it did confuse matters and raise expectations by 
implying it was likely to be at that time because it was one of the first calls of the day. The 
situation on the day was that the adviser needed to check something with another 
department so that he could be confident in the information he had available  but that 
department couldnt take his call before 9am. 
So I think Standard Lifes reason for not calling at 8.30 am is reasonable, but as the same 
time I can understand why Mr H was frustrated if hed been waiting 40 minutes for a call that 
he thought should have been at a specific time. And I can sympathise with Mr Hs position as 
he suggested he might not be able to complete the call as he had a prior engagement. But I 
think this was simply a misunderstanding between both parties and we all experience some 
inconvenience when dealing with financial firms from time to time  but not always to the 
extent that financial compensation is warranted. Looking at the impact this matter had on 
Mr H, on balance, Im not persuaded compensation is warranted and I think Standard Lifes 
apology was enough.
Ive also heard how the adviser asked Mr H for permission to share his details with other 
parts of Standard Life. He confirmed this was because different parts of the business would 
be involved in the process of establishing and paying Mr Hs pension. Mr H said this hadnt 
been clarified in the paper work and I can understand his reticence as he was clear which 
option  namely taking the GMP, he wanted to choose. But I dont think it was unreasonable 
to request Mr Hs permission at that point, as it was likely the adviser would need to speak 
with other parts of the business regarding illustrations and clarification around the GMP. The 
input from other areas of the business would have meant that Mr H was provided with the 
correct information before his annuity was finalised, so I think it was to his advantage for his 
data to be shared where necessary. I note the adviser did explain that Mr H could refuse his 
permission if he wanted, so I dont think Standard Life did anything wrong there.
I know that Mr H wanted up to date figures for his preferred options  based on the 
confusion that occurred over whether the five-year guarantee should be included. When the 
adviser confirmed he didnt have those figures (and couldnt get them straight away) Mr H 
said it wasnt good enough. I can understand why Mr H assumed he could have the figures 
provided to him but calculating the GMP is a more complex calculation than usual and often 
requires manual calculations from other parts of the business. 
Its not a matter for this service to tell Standard Life how to manage its method of creating 
and providing illustrations and quotations  those are everyday legitimate commercial 
decisions Standard Life is entitled to make. But I would expect it to explain why it has such 
processes and I think the adviser did that here by explaining that the calculations were too 
complex to provide accurate illustrations instantly and needed manual assistance. 
And I know Mr H would like us to consider the wider implications of Standard Lifes 
practices and procedures and tell it to overhaul them. But this services role isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. So it isnt appropriate for me to go further here than considering whether or 
not Mr H has been treated correctly.
Ultimately here Mr H isnt satisfied with Standard Lifes timekeeping, its request to share his 
data within the group and its lack of ability to provide immediate quotations when he wanted 
to finalise his annuity decision. But I dont think Standard Life acted unreasonably over those 
matters and while it could have been clearer and more precise regarding its appointment process, I dont think the impact the delay in calling had on Mr H warrants the award of 
financial compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman