DRN-1590720
 
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that the information Aviva Insurance Limited gave her when she 
applied for her home insurance policy misled her about how much cover she would have for 
jewellery lost away from the home. This only became clear to her when she made a claim.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs M applied on-line for home insurance with Aviva. She requested cover for 
jewellery, watches and other precious items of £20,000. She also chose to have cover for 
accidents and thefts away from the home.
Later in the year, Mrs M made a claim under the policy for lost jewellery away from the 
home. After providing evidence relating to her ownership of the lost item, she was told that 
her policy only provided cover for this away from the home of £1,000.
Mrs M complained to Aviva, stating that in her view the sales process for the policy was 
misleading in relation to cover away from the home. Her view was that it wasnt made clear 
that her valuables cover limit of £20,000 would not apply to valuable items lost outside the 
home. Aviva considered the application process was clear, and so Mrs M brought a 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Her view was that the application 
information given by Aviva was clear, and that Mrs M had chosen the level of cover of 
£1,000 for items away from the home.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view. She reiterated her opinion that the sales 
process was unclear and misleading. Her understanding was that when she chose cover of 
£20,000 for valuables, this limit would apply for valuables even if lost away from the home. 
Mrs M says that when applying for cover for possessions away from the home, she did not 
consider that possessions included items such as jewellery. Instead, taking into account the 
likelihood that she would take jewellery outside the home on occasions, Mrs M says she 
reasonably believed that she would still be covered up to £20,000 for such valuables.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M chose valuables cover of £20,000 when applying for the policy. She has provided a 
screenshot showing the information she was provided with during the on-line application.  
This confirmed that the valuables cover was included in the overall contents limit.
Information was also available as part of the on-line application in respect of contents cover. 
This confirmed that contents covers your possessions at homeYour possessions are not 
covered away from home.In my view, the information provided as part of the on-line application made it clear that the 
valuables cover chosen formed part of the contents cover, and that specifically related to 
cover for items at home, rather than away from the home.
The application then offered Mrs M the opportunity to chose cover for accident and theft 
away from home. In answer to a question about what this covered, the help information that 
was available to Mrs M stated that this was for possessions when youre temporarily away 
from the home.
Mrs M says that it wasnt clear that possessions would include jewellery. She therefore 
didnt consider that a claim for jewellery lost away from the home would be covered under 
this section of the policy. Instead, Mrs M believed that any claim for lost jewellery away from 
the home would be met under the valuables cover, and would be subject to the valuables 
limit of £20,000.
I have carefully considered Mrs Ms comments in this regard. However it seems to me that, 
based on the information in the application process that stated cover for loss away from the 
home was for possessions, it was reasonable to conclude that jewellery would fall under the 
definition of a possession that was temporarily away from home. In addition, as stated 
above, the application process made it clear that valuables such as jewellery formed part of 
the contents cover, and contents cover itself did not cover items away from the home.
Consequently, my view on balance is that the information Aviva provided to Mrs M did make 
it clear that if she lost jewellery away from the home, this would be considered under the 
section entitled Accidents and theft away from the home. This section had a limit chosen by 
Mrs M of £1,000  and this was the limit therefore applied to her claim when she lost her 
jewellery away from the home.
I appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision, and Im sorry to learn about the item 
that she lost. However, my view is that Aviva did make the information relating to the cover 
limits of the applicable sections of the policy sufficiently clear when Mrs M applied for the 
policy, and that it also acted fairly when applying the limit that it did to her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July2020.
John Swain
Ombudsman