DRN-3684368
The complaint
A complains that Norman P Partridge (Insurance Services) Limited (NPP) failed to meet its 
obligations as a broker when selling and renewing insurance policies for the properties it 
owns.
A is a partnership owned by Mr and Mrs Y, who have brought this complaint on As behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Y have a property management partnership, A. A owns over 100 properties. In 
2011 Mr Y used NPP as a broker to secure insurance policies for As properties. 
In October 2017 Mr A made a claim on the policy after two of the properties were subject to 
criminal activity, as it was found they were being used to cultivate drugs. The insurer 
declined the claims as it said Mr and Mrs Y had failed to carry out the required checks on 
their tenants when letting the property to them. It said specific checks were a condition of the 
policy under the malicious damage by tenants cover and the cultivation of drugs cover in the 
policy. It said as these conditions hadnt been met, cover wouldnt apply. 
Mr and Mrs Y didnt think this was fair. They said NPP had never provided them with a copy 
of the full policy wording or key facts document, so they hadnt been aware of the conditions. 
And they said it hadnt done enough to understand their requirements when it first took out 
the policy. They said that if theyd been made aware of the policy condition then they would 
have ensured they complied with it and it was NPPs role to ensure they were aware.
They made a complaint to NPP and it responded across a number of letters. It maintained its 
position that it provided Mr and Mrs Y with all the policy documentation and did enough to 
make the relevant terms clear. 
Mr and Mrs Y didnt agree. They said they had never been provided with the full policy 
document and the information they were provided with didnt draw the important conditions 
to their attention. They also said there had been changes to the policy over the years they 
had renewed which hadnt been highlighted to them. They brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he thought NPP had done 
enough to provide Mr and Mrs Y with all the relevant information about the policy.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs Y asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Y think their claim was unfairly declined as they say they werent aware of the 
conditions in the policy that the insurer has relied on. Im considering this complaint against 
the broker of the policy, so I am only considering its actions in relation to the matter. That 
means Ill consider if it met its obligations as a broker. But I wont consider whether the claim 
was fairly declined as this was a decision of the insurer. If Mr and Mrs Y are concerned 
about this decision they will need to raise a separate complaint to the insurer directly, if they 
havent done so already.
The crux of the dispute in this case is about the information provided to Mr and Mrs Y. NPP 
has acted as a broker for Mr and Mrs Y for a number of years and the sale of the policies 
were on an advised basis. This means, under the Financial Conduct Authoritys(FCA) 
Insurance Conduct of Business regulations (ICOBS), NPP had a responsibility to provide 
appropriate information at inception and each renewal that is clear and not misleading to 
enable Mr and Mrs Y to make an informed choice about the cover they required for A. 
Mr and Mrs Y first took out the policy in 2011. As this falls outside of the timescales required 
for a complaint to be brought to this service, Im not able to consider the original sale of the 
policy as part of this complaint. However the policy renewed each year until 2017 and each 
renewal forms a new policy contract. So Ive considered whether NPP met its obligations 
under ICOBS and provided sufficient information at the renewals between 2015 and 2017, 
that fall within our timescales.
Documentation provided
Mr and Mrs Y have said NPP didnt provide them with the full policy documents at any point 
since they took out the policies. Nor were they provided with the key facts document that 
highlights the conditions their claim has been declined based on. 
NPP has said that it provided the documents every year, often in person as Mr Y would 
attend the office regularly. And if not then they were sent by post.
It isnt possible to know for certain whether the policy documents were provided to Mr and 
Mrs Y. As they were handed to him in person or sent by post there is no definitive electronic 
record to show exactly what was provided. So I need to decide whats most likely on the 
balance of probabilities, based on the available evidence. 
Mr and Mrs Y have said they keep all documentation they are given in the original envelopes 
it has been provided in. So theyre confident that the documents they have are all they were 
ever provided with. They say this doesnt include either the key facts document that 
highlights the condition or the policy wording. However NPP say it provides these documents 
as standard with each renewal and according to its records, these were provided each year. 
Ive considered the information from both sides and Im more persuaded that NPP did 
provide the documents. NPP has provided the cover letter from each renewal. In this it 
states that the bundle includes details of the cover afforded under this policy and asks Mr 
and Mrs Y to check the documents to make sure it meets their needs. Mr and Mrs Y have 
agreed they received a copy of the cover letter but say because the policy document wasnt 
listed directly then this shows that it wasnt included in the bundle. However I think the cover 
letter indicates that full policy documents are included. And this matches NPPs internal 
records of what was given to Mr and Mrs Y.
Further, based on the documents Mr and Mrs Y have said they received across the 
renewals, they would have had very little detail about the policy cover inclusions and 
exclusions. And, as experienced property owners, Id expect them to notice this at the time 
and request the missing information. Theyve said that if theyd had the policy documents 
they would have made sure they were meeting any conditions, to ensure they had policy 
cover. So I find it unlikely that they would accept insurance cover without any knowledge of 
the conditions or exclusions. Essentially, either the policy wording and detail was never provided and Mr and Mrs Y didnt 
query this and accepted insurance without knowledge of the inclusions, or the policy wording 
was provided. And of the two possible scenarios I find the latter to be more likely, especially 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ys property portfolio and therefore their likely knowledge of 
home insurance. 
Mr and Mrs Y have said they dont consider that they have any more knowledge of insurance 
than a lay person. They said they took the policies out in their personal capacity and not as 
part of a business. And theyve provided details of their backgrounds that show they didnt 
have prior experience with insurance. 
The policy is taken out in their names trading as their partnership. So the policy is in the 
name of their business, which means wed treat it as a commercial policy. However 
regardless of what name the policy is in, Mr and Mrs Y have explained that they own over 
100 properties that they rent out. So even if this policy were taken out in their personal 
capacity, I would still consider them to be a more knowledgeable consumer than those 
without a property portfolio. And when a policy is sold to a commercial consumer, there is a 
greater onus on them to ensure the policy meets their needs. So Id expect Mr and Mrs Y to 
check the wording of the policy and if they werent provided with it, to raise this straight 
away.
Further, it isnt unusual for landlords policies to contain terms that require regular checks of 
the properties or written references for the tenants. And as a sophisticated consumer, Id 
expect Mr and Mrs Y to have some awareness of this. 
Mr and Mrs Y have also said that in both 2015 and 2017 the policy materially changed and 
this wasnt drawn to their attention. As Im more persuaded that NPP did provide the full 
policy documents Ive looked at these to consider whether it would have been clear to Mr 
and Mrs Y that the policy had been amended. And in both policy years the key facts 
document clearly outlines the additional covers and exclusions and lists the details of these 
amendments. So Im satisfied this would have been clear in the renewal documents. 
So based on everything, even if Mr and Mrs Y hadnt originally received the relevant 
documents for the policy, as sophisticated consumers Id have expected them to have 
queried this and requested the information required. Based on this, and on considering 
NPPs own internal records of what was provided, I think its most likely that NPP did provide 
the correct documentation to Mr and Mrs Y.
Suitability of policy 
Mr and Mrs Y have also said that they think NPP failed in its obligation to recommend a 
suitable product based on their demands and needs. While I cant consider the original sale, 
I have considered the information provided at the renewals since. And Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that NPP didnt meet its obligations to provide enough information about the 
policy for Mr and Mrs Y to decide if its suitable.
At each renewal NPP has asked Mr and Mrs Y to carefully check the documents provided to 
ensure they do meet their needs. And its pointed out the possible problems they may face if 
any of the information is incorrect or conditions not met.
It is also of note that Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs 
Ys needs. While the claim was declined due to a condition that Mr and Mrs Y say they 
werent aware of, theyve said if they had known they would have ensured they complied 
with it. So the issue arose due to the fact they werent aware of the clause and not because 
of the suitability of the policy. Based on this Im satisfied that NPP did enough to ensure it recommended a suitable policy 
and provided Mr and Mrs Y with enough information to ensure it met their needs. For these 
reasons Im persuaded that NPP acted fairly when renewing the policy each year from 2015. 
I therefore wont ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y, on 
behalf of A, to accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman