DRN-4110331
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) declined his claim under his 
furniture warranty.
What happened
In 2017, Mr S bought a new table and took out a five-year policy to cover accidental staining 
and accidental damage.
In 2022 Mr S claimed under the policy. He said the underside of the table was damaged 
after he spilt bleach.
AmTrust sent a technician to assess the damage. The technician reported back to AmTrust, 
which then contacted Mr S to say the damage was due to a manufacturing fault. AmTrust 
declined the claim because the policy didnt provide cover for manufacturing faults.
Unhappy with its decision, Mr S complained to AmTrust. He didnt think AmTrust had 
rejected his claim fairly under the policy and he was unhappy that the technician didnt 
discuss the outcome with him directly.
AmTrust looked into Mr Ss complaint and sent a final response. It said the technicians 
responsibility was to assess the damage, determine the cause and say whether it could be 
repaired. The technician wasnt responsible for deciding whether the policy provided cover. 
The technicians report confirmed the damage was because of a manufacturing fault with the 
adhesion of the underside foil finish, rather than a bleach spillage. AmTrust confirmed its 
decision to decline the claim. However, it acknowledged it hadnt replied to Mr S as soon as 
it shouldve done, so AmTrust awarded him £50 by way of apology.
Our investigator didnt think AmTrust had declined the claim fairly because the evidence 
didnt confirm a manufacturing fault and the policy didnt specifically exclude cover for 
manufacturing faults. She thought AmTrust should reconsider the claim. However, our 
investigator did think AmTrusts response to Mr Ss complaint about the technician was fair.
AmTrust didnt agree. It remained firm in the opinion that the damage was due to a 
manufacturing fault and that the policy didnt provide cover.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2023 explaining that I was not intending to uphold Mr 
Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The issue is that Mr S thinks AmTrust unfairly declined his claim for accidental damage 
caused by a bleach spillage.
AmTrust didnt think the damage was caused by bleach and declined the claim stating it was 
due to a manufacturing fault.
Looking at the policy, under the heading Your Coverage Includes, it provides cover for 
accidental stains and damage, and it provides definitions and examples of what that might 
include. Mr Ss policy doesnt include cover for structural faults. 
So, for me to uphold Mr Ss complaint Id need to be satisfied that the damage was caused, 
more likely than not, by the bleach spillage rather than a manufacturing fault. 
While its not clear how spilt bleach would cause damage to the underside of the table, I 
have no reason to doubt that Mr S spilt the bleach and he then saw the damage.
AmTrusts professional report concludes that the foil underneath the table had become 
damaged because of a fault with the adhesion. The report also states that there was another 
separate area of damage which wouldnt be consistent with a single, accidental spillage.
In the absence of any contradictory professional evidence, Im minded to accept AmTrusts 
report that the damage was due to a manufacturing fault.
Turning again to the policy, it doesnt specifically exclude cover for manufacturing faults. 
However, I note the following is clearly set out on the plan certificate:
Important  the Intention of the cover
The intention of this Plan is to provide cover for individual incidents of accidental staining 
and/or accidental damage and/or structural damage (depending on cover selected).
As Ive already said, Mr Ss plan doesnt include cover for structural faults, so cover is limited 
to individual incidents of accidental staining or damage. 
I have no reason to think a manufacturing fault falls within the definition of an accident. And 
AmTrusts report that other areas of the foil had lost adhesion suggest that it wasnt an 
individual incident.
Therefore, Im minded to agree with AmTrust that the damage caused by a manufacturing 
fault isnt covered under the policy. 
Ive noted Mr S was unhappy that the technician didnt say his claim would be declined. 
AmTrust provided an explanation about the technicians role and said it wouldnt be for them 
to discuss whether the claim was covered. I think AmTrust provided a fair response, so I 
dont plan to ask it to do any more here.
Finally, Mr S was unhappy with the delay in AmTrusts response. I see AmTrust 
acknowledged the avoidable delay and awarded Mr S £50 by way of apology. Give that the 
delay doesnt appear to have caused Mr S any significant inconvenience or loss, Im 
satisfied the award is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In summary, I think AmTrust declined Mr Ss claim fairly because the damage wasnt 
covered under the policy. Unless I receive any evidence to persuade me otherwise, I dont 
plan to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr S was disappointed. He said no other parts of the foil had come away and, as there was 
no new evidence, he didnt think it was right to change the outcome.AmTrust had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint for the same reasons set out in 
my provisional decision. That said, Ill respond to his further comments for completeness.
Mr S reasonably pointed out that there was no new evidence. In my provisional decision I 
explained that the policy didnt provide cover for manufacturing faults. Our investigator relied 
on the fact that the policy didnt exclude manufacturing faults. But the policy Mr S bought 
didnt include cover for structural damage, which was made clear under the heading Your 
Coverage Includes. On careful consideration of the policy wording, the intention of providing 
cover for accidental damage only was clear. Therefore, I cant reasonably say the policy 
intended to cover manufacturing faults.
Mr S said he can provide photos showing that the table doesnt have any other damage, so 
he still feels it isnt a manufacturing fault. Looking back at the photos and the technical 
report, theres evidence of another, smaller area of damage away from the larger part Mr S 
claimed for. As the photos and report were from the time of inspection, Im satisfied that it 
was reasonable for AmTrust to rely on the expert opinion that the damage, which was in 
more than one area, was due to a manufacturing fault. As Ive said, the policy didnt provide 
cover for anything other than accidental damage.
Overall, while I can understand that Mr S is unhappy that the damage isnt covered under 
the policy, the evidence indicates that AmTrust fairly declined his claim. I wont be asking 
AmTrust to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman