DRN-3205249
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Tandem Bank Limited (Tandem) will not refund him for flights he
purchased using his Tandem credit card.
What happened
Mr W bought return flights from a travel agent (the Agent) in October 2019 using his 
Tandem credit card for £1,284.24.
In April 2020 he wrote to the Agent to say his hotel had been cancelled due to the Covid-19
pandemic and his flights had been disrupted. He told the Agent that the airline had referred
him back to it for a penalty free refund.
Mr W says he did not hear back from the Agent, so he wrote to Tandem to claim a refund.
However, Mr W is unhappy that Tandem will not refund him and with the way it handled his
claim. In summary, he says it took a long time to get answers and he wasnt able to access
the funds which he really needed back.
Tandem says that it raised a chargeback which failed as it was defended by the Agent. And
that Mr W does not have a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(Section 75) because the Agent is not the direct supplier of the flights.
Our investigator looked at the case and upheld it. In summary, she said that even though
Tandem raised an initial chargeback it should have pursued this more robustly. She was
satisfied the flights were not provided to Mr W and if Tandem had taken the chargeback
further it is likely it would ultimately have succeeded. She also felt that in not doing more to
progress the chargeback it was likely that Tandem had caused Mr W to be without his funds
for longer than necessary.
Overall, the investigator considered it fair and reasonable that Tandem refund Mr W the cost
of the flights plus simple interest from the date the chargeback dispute was closed to the
date of settlement. She also felt that Mr W would have had his money back sooner had
Tandem robustly pursued the chargeback  and this caused him additional distress and
inconvenience. So she recommended £50 compensation payable for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Tandem has asked for the matter to be looked at by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 30 March 2022. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr W also paid for a hotel with his Tandem card and had made a claim to Tandem in
relation to this. However, as this appears to have been resolved (Mr W got a refund) I am not
covering this transaction in my provisional decision.
Chargeback
I have requested further information from both parties about the chargeback attempt to
clarify some things. After considering this my view is different to our investigator.
Tandem recently confirmed that it raised the chargeback under a particular scheme reason
code Service Not Provided. However, although the airline had offered flexible options
(including fee free refunds) to customers by the time the chargeback was raised, Mr Ws
flights (which were not due to depart until September 2020) were apparently still available at
the time and had not been cancelled. The flights appear to have been cancelled by the
airline several months later at the end of August 2020. Therefore, the criteria for the
chargeback reason code Service Not Provided were not met when Tandem first presented
it in that April. Even if Tandem continued to pursue the chargeback under this reason code, I
think it is unlikely to have succeeded at the time because the service was still available.
For completeness, I have thought about whether things might have been different if Tandem
had raised the chargeback under a different chargeback code. Having reviewed the other
possible codes, I dont think it likely would have resulted in a different outcome. Whats
more, from the information Mr W initially provided in April 2020 I think Tandem was not
acting unreasonably in raising the chargeback using the reason code it did.
Overall, I dont think the chargeback would have succeeded in any event, so I dont think the
way Tandem handled the chargeback is a reason for fairly refunding Mr W.
However, I have gone on to look at whether Tandem could have done more for Mr W in
relation to his request for its help to get his money back.
Section 75
Mr W used a credit card to pay for the flights which means that Section 75 is relevant to this
case. Section 75 allows Mr W to hold Tandem responsible for breach of contract or
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using the credit afforded here.
However, there are certain technical criteria that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be
valid. These criteria relate to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the transaction,
or the way the payment was made. One of those is for a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS)
agreement between the parties to the transaction.
I have considered what Tandem has said about Mr Ws Section 75 claim being invalid
because the Agent did not directly supply the flights. I believe that Tandem is referring to the
lack of a valid DCS agreement here. However, it isnt in dispute that Mr Ws payment went to
the Agent and that he entered into a contractual relationship with it. So rather, I think the
position is that there is a valid DCS agreement between Mr W and Tandem for the financing
of purchases from the Agent.
Therefore, I have turned to the specific terms and conditions of the Agent in respect of any
breach of contract which Tandem might be liable for under Section 75. Our investigator has
obtained online what appear to be the terms and conditions in force at the time of Mr Ws
purchase. In the absence of anything to the contrary, I think I can fairly rely on these.
It later become clear that when Mr W first wrote to the Agent in April 2020 to claim a refund
the flight had not yet been cancelled. However, the Agent would have known this and
should, I think, have treated Mr Ws email as a customer request to cancel. In this situation
Section 16 of the Agents terms are particularly relevant. Despite some ambiguity (which,
with the Consumer Rights Act 2015 in mind, should be read in favour of Mr W) these appear
to indicate:where a customer cancels a flight only booking any right to a refund depends on the 
particular airline policy; and
the Agent undertakes to arrange such refunds on behalf of the customer.
In Mr Ws case I can see that the airline had previously written to him (in light of the
unfolding pandemic) to promise a fee free refund for his booking even if he chose to cancel it
himself. Mr W also said the airline referred him back to the Agent to get his money back. So I
think that when Mr W wrote to the Agent he was exercising the right to cancel and get his
money back. By not responding to him to issue the refund the Agent has breached its
contract with him.
Furthermore, while I dont consider it necessary to go into great detail at this stage, it is
worth noting that by late August 2020 (when the flights were cancelled) Mr W appears to
have been entitled to a refund under section 17 of the Agents terms and conditions. And
although Mr W had not approached the Agent since the cancellation of the service in August
2020  it would have already been on notice since April 2020 that he wanted to pursue a
refund  yet it had not done anything about this.
In summary, I think the Agent has breached its contract with Mr W and he was entitled to a
full refund via its terms and conditions. So with Section 75 in mind Tandem should fairly pay
him this refund.
Tandem should have fully investigated Mr Ws Section 75 claim soon after the initial
chargeback had failed (particularly as Mr W specifically raised Section 75 to it in early May
2020). Had Tandem done so I think it likely the specific facts around Mr Ws entitlement to a
refund via Section 16 of the Agents terms would have become clear. And despite the
challenges around the pandemic at the time, I think it fair and reasonable that Tandem pay
Mr W out of pocket interest running from a few weeks after it gave him an initial outcome on
the chargeback aspect of his claim as opposed to when it actually gave him a response to
his Section 75 claim in December 2020. So I think it fair that it pay him 8% simple yearly
interest on the refund from 1 June 2020 to the date of settlement.
Customer service
I have considered the level of customer service Tandem provided here. I acknowledge the
frustration and distress caused to Mr W, who wanted access to his funds sooner, and I have 
also considered the unprecedented circumstances at the time of the global pandemic which
presented a significant operational challenge for businesses and likely contributed to
responses which did not appear to be as tailored or timely as Mr W would have expected.
I dont think that Tandem are due to pay any additional compensation in respect of the way it
handled the chargeback. It appeared to raise a chargeback reasonably promptly and as I
have already said - had it acted differently I still dont think Mr W would have had his money
back sooner. However, I do think that despite the circumstances surrounding the pandemic it
did take too long to provide him with an answer on his Section 75 claim. I think this caused
additional distress to Mr W  and therefore the £50 compensation recommended by the
investigator is still fair and reasonable.
I upheld the complaint and provisionally directed Tandem to refund Mr W the price of the 
tickets and pay simple yearly interest at 8% on this from 1 June 2020 to the date of 
settlement. I also directed it to pay him an additional £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
it caused.
I asked both parties for their comments:
Mr W said he agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.Tandem did not agree with my decision. In summary, it said that it has found no evidence 
that Mr Ws concerns were not handled or raised in the correct way. While it has identified 
some issues that could have gone better it does not believe that it should be asked to refund 
the transaction, pay interest or £50 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tandems response is fairly general and the matters it has raised (such as why it was unable 
to temporarily credit Mr W while it was investigating his claim) do not directly address the 
reasons I am upholding his complaint as outlined in my provisional decision (above). In 
particular Tandem has not sufficiently persuaded me that it properly considered Section 75, 
or that it gave Mr W an answer on this as promptly as it could have done.
For the reasons already given in my provisional decision I still consider that Mr W is entitled 
to a refund for his flight tickets via Section 75. And despite the pandemic Tandem should 
have fully investigated and given Mr W an answer on a Section 75 claim sooner than it did.  
Putting things right
For the reasons already given I consider it fair and reasonable that Tandem refund Mr W for 
his tickets plus interest and £50 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Tandem Bank Limited to refund Mr W the price of the
tickets being £1,284.24. Tandem should also pay 8% simple yearly interest on this amount
from the 1 June 2020 to the date of settlement. It should also pay him an additional £50
compensation for the distress it caused. 
If Mr W accepts my decision and Tandem does not settle the complaint within 28 days of 
when it is notified of said acceptance then it should also pay 8% simple yearly interest on the 
£50 compensation calculated from the date of my decision to the date of settlement.  
If Tandem is required to deduct tax from my interest award it should provide Mr W with a
certificate of tax deduction so he may claim a refund from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman