DRN-1732209
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr and Mrs N say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them the PPI.  
What happened
Briefly:
In 2000 Mr and Mrs N took out a PPI policy in connection with their existing held mortgage - 
the two things didn't happen at the same time. Mr and Mrs N took out PPI during a branch 
visit.
The policy provided protection for Mr and Mrs N's mortgage payments in the event 
they couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay 
out for up to 12 months per claim split equally between them and it cost around £17 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs N were employed, and they said they were each entitled 
to sick pay of six months' full followed by six months' half-pay - they also had savings of less 
than three months' pay. Mrs N was in good health at the time while Mr N had an existing 
medical condition.
B&B's records show the mortgage account ended in 2003.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mr and Mrs N 
chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate 
for them.
Because Mr and Mrs N disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs N's complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr and Mrs N were hoping for, Ive 
decided not to uphold their complaint. My reasons are set out below.
 
did Mr and Mrs N have a choice about PPI? Normally this is one of the first things I consider - it's typically a key complaint point raised. 
But in Mr and Mrs N's case they've not made this argument - they've said they asked for the 
cover. It's also the case that Mr and Mrs N had held their mortgage for several years prior to 
taking out PPI - they'd also previously taken out PPI. So because it's clear Mr and Mrs N 
chose to take out the cover I don't need to consider this matter any further.
the information  
Mr and Mrs N applied for and took out PPI by completing an application form in-branch. Mr 
and Mrs N have complained that they weren't offered a meeting with a staff member to 
discuss the policy and assess its suitability for them - they just asked to take out the cover.
B&B didn't have to offer Mr and Mrs N a meeting - it was entitled to sell PPI by information 
only. And while this meant it didn't have to ensure the cover was right or suitable for Mr and 
Mrs N, it did have to give them enough clear and timely information, so they could make that 
decision for themselves.
Given the limited available evidence - for example I've not seen a copy of the leaflet Mr and 
Mrs N say they were given - I accept its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs N 
about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I said above, Mr and Mrs N asked 
for the cover - so it looks like they were interested in and wanted this type of cover. And 
based on their circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for 
them -  so it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
Mr and Mrs N off taking out the cover. 
I'm mindful that Mr N told us about a medical condition he had at the time. And it's not clear 
that B&B sufficiently drew Mr and Mrs N's attention to the significant exclusions / limitations 
in relation to existing conditions. But Mr N also told us his condition was well-controlled, and 
he'd not had any time off work because of it.
So because I don't think Mr N would have likely thought the main reason he'd be off work 
would be due to his condition - and in light of the time limited nature of the exclusion, I don't 
think clearer information about this would've caused Mr and Mrs N to change their mind 
about taking out the policy.
Mr and Mrs N have said they both had comprehensive sickness and redundancy cover 
through their employers. But I'm mindful that Mr and Mrs N understood their existing means 
when they asked B&B that they wanted cover to protect their mortgage payments in the 
event they were off sick or lost their jobs. But in any event the policy would've paid out in 
addition to any existing provision, and it would've done so for longer than both Mr and Mrs 
N's full sick pay would've lasted - up to 12 months per claim.
So on the basis that I don't think the policy operated fundamentally differently from what Mr 
and Mrs N expected or wanted from the policy - it seems to me that it would have done what 
they wanted and asked for - I don't think they'd have acted any differently and not gone 
ahead had B&B given them clearer information about it.
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs N have lost out as a result of having PPI, so 
B&B doesn't have to pay back to Mr and Mrs N what they paid for it.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs N have said both before and after the adjudicator 
gave their answer - including what they said about not understanding why B&B upheld their 
complaint about their previous policy and not this one despite their circumstances being the same. And that they've demonstrated they paid PPI premiums until the mortgage was paid 
off. But these points dont change my decision. 
It's not in dispute that Mr and Mrs N paid for PPI between 2000 and when they paid their 
mortgage off. But this doesn't automatically mean they should get back what they paid for 
PPI. B&B chose to uphold their complaint about their first policy - but that was its decision. 
My decision isn't about that - it's about the policy Mr and Mrs N took out in 2000. And for the 
reasons I've detailed about, I don't think it was mis-sold. So there's nothing B&B needs to do 
to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons above I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman