DRN-1348249
 
The complaint
Mr AC, Mr MC and Mrs LC complain about the service received from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) during a visit to a branch in March 2019.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to all parties, so I wont repeat it in any great detail. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather, I dont think its relevant to the issues I 
need to deal with. However, in summary it is this; 
Mr AC and Mr MC went into the branch intending to withdraw some cash from the joint 
account held by Mr AC, Mr MC and Mrs LC. The cashier they dealt with became concerned 
about the transaction as Mr ACs signature was not on his profile and mistakenly thought it 
was necessary for him to provide another there and then. On that basis Mr AC was asked to 
sign on a scrap piece of paper, which he did, but the cashier still didnt allow the withdrawal 
of the cash.
Mr MC ultimately obtained the cash they required, but lodged a complaint concerning how 
Mr AC had been dealt with, and about the requirement to sign the scrap piece of paper 
which he thought may breach data protection legislation.
Barclays accepted that the cashier got it wrong and offered to credit the account with £100 in 
recognition of the poor service.
Mr AC, Mr MC and Mrs LC were unhappy with Barclayss final response and so brought their 
complaint to this service and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator 
agreed there had been a failing in service level but didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly in 
its handling of the complaint. The investigator thought that the amount of compensation 
offered was fair and reasonable. 
Mr AC, Mr MC and Mrs LC didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. So I look at the 
issues raised and then consider all the available evidence in order to see if the business has 
acted fairly. I take into account both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted 
fairly. It is an accepted fact that the cashier made a mistake during Mr AC and Mr MCs visit to the 
branch. There was no need to ask for Mr ACs signature as he had correctly entered his PIN 
into the card machine. That was a mistake on the part of the cashier in not understanding 
the correct process. I can see Barclays have taken the matter seriously as they have 
confirmed that a review has been undertaken and feedback provided to the cashiers 
manager in order to avoid any repetition. 
The most significant aspect to this complaint however is the request for the signature to be 
on a scrap piece of paper. That was very poor and I fully agree with the complainants that 
this would cause extreme concern since it is not the sort of request one would expect from a 
highly professional business like Barclays. I think Mr AC, Mr MC and Mrs LC are right to be 
concerned about data protection, but I am satisfied with Barclays response that the scrap 
piece of paper would have been disposed of confidentially. There is no evidence to say that 
Barclays did not follow their procedures for doing so and although it is worrying, there is no 
evidence that there has in fact been a data breach. However, I feel it is important to note its 
not the role of this service to decide whether or not theres been such a data breach - only 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) can do that. If Mr AC, Mr MC and Mrs LC wish 
to complain to the ICO, there is more information on how to do this on its website.
I appreciate that Mr MC feels it is morally wrong to have had to wait for the complaint to be 
escalated to this service before Barclays accepted they were at fault. I have also noted his 
comments about misleading advertising of the Premier account service and that Barclays 
are in breach of the Advertising Standards Authoritys terms of practice. He is unhappy that 
having brought his complaint to Barclays it was not given the priority he would expect a 
Premier Account holder to receive.
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they 
change their processes, or punish them. That is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). We cant give businesses direction on policy or procedure. We can only say 
whether it is a policy or procedure which is being applied fairly and reasonably to all 
customers. The FCA takes a principles-based approach to conduct regulation and lets 
businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the way they deal with 
customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has given this service under the Dispute 
Rules in the FCA Handbook. What we recommend however can influence how businesses 
review their policies,
So, I cant say Barclays has acted unfairly in the way it has dealt with the complaint, since it 
has followed its procedures for doing so. 
Barclays has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it should pay some 
compensation. So, the decision for me is what the correct amount ought to be. Barclays 
offered £100 and Ive thought about whether that is sufficient. 
In some complaints, the problems a customer encounters dont just affect them financially, 
and that is the case here. Those problems can lead to the customer being caused some 
trouble and upset and it is only right that the business should think about what it could do to 
put matters right. But the trouble and upset caused needs to be balanced and measured 
against  the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with other people, businesses and 
organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times.
Ive also considered the level of awards this service has made for distress and 
inconvenience in similar cases, and putting all of the circumstances into the balance I think 
what Barclays offered is fair and reasonable. And I think it is enough to put matters right.So, although Mr AC, Mr MC and Mrs LC will probably be disappointed with my decision, I 
cant say Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
Barclays has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint, and this is fair and 
reasonable. So my final decision is that Barclays should pay £100 to settle Mr AC, Mr MC 
and Mrs LCs complaint. To avoid any confusion I do not require Barclays to pay £100 to 
each of the complainants, rather £100 in total.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, Mrs C and 
Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman