DRN-1696472
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a number of 
packaged bank accounts. Her account history is as follows:
Fee-free Current Account taken out in April 1999
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account in March 2004
Downgraded to a fee-free Current Account in March 2007
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions Active account in October 2011 (this was then 
reverted to a fee-free Current Account for a few days then reinstated to an Additions 
Active account in November 2011)
Migrated to a fee-free Current Account with a fee-paid Tech and Travel Pack in 
January 2017.
Miss W says that she was told that she had to upgrade her account in order to retain her 
overdraft facility.
What happened
Since this complaint has been with this service Barclays has agreed to refund all of the 
monthly account fees that Miss W paid for the Additions account, with interest at 8% simple, 
less tax  which is in line with our approach to redress where we think an account has been 
mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint about the Additions Active account and 
they didnt think the Additions Active account had been mis-sold. And they thought that what 
the Barclays had offered to do in relation to the Additions account was sufficient. Miss W 
disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
This decision will only be looking at whether the Additions Active account was mis-sold and 
whether the offer Barclays has made in relation to the Additions account was sufficient. I will 
not be looking at the migrations to the Tech and Travel packs as I cant see that Miss W has 
complained about these. That said, if she is unhappy with this migration, she would need to 
direct this to Barclays in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me deicide this case.
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, 
as is the case here, I have to decide this case on a balance of probabilities. In other words, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was most likely to have happened, based on 
everything that is available.
Additions account
I have carefully considered Barclays offer in relation to this sale and I can see that it has 
offered to refund all of the Additions account fees, along with 8% simple interest, less tax, on 
those fees. This is in line with what I wouldve awarded had I upheld this aspect of Miss Ws 
complaint, so I dont think that Barclays needs to do anything more in relation to this.
Additions Active account
Miss W has said that she was told that she had to upgrade her account in order to retain her 
overdraft facility. However, I can see that she had held an overdraft for a number of years on 
a fee-free account before then. And Miss W has not said what she was told that would make 
her think she was suddenly unable to keep an overdraft on a fee-free account.
What I can see from Barclays notes at the time, is that Miss W requested that a joint 
account she held be downgraded from a fee-paying Additions Plus account to a fee-free 
account. And the notes suggest she asked that her sole account be upgraded to an 
Additions Active account. As these accounts came with broadly the same benefits I think that 
it was more likely than not that she did this as she wanted to continue to have access to 
these benefits. I think that it is unlikely that she thought she would lose her overdraft facility if 
she did not upgrade.
I can see that there was an error from Barclays in which Miss Ws overdraft was briefly 
removed around this time. But I dont think that this was to do with Miss W holding a fee-free 
account. If anything it seems to have been an error during the upgrade process. It may be 
the case that due to the passage of time, Miss W recalls this error and now associates it with 
the reason that she took out the Additions Active account. But overall I think that she chose 
to take out the account due to the benefits that it offered.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think that this account was recommended to Miss W. 
Therefore Barclays had to ensure that it was a reasonable fit for Miss Ws circumstances. 
At the time the account was taken out, it came with Worldwide Travel insurance; Breakdown 
cover; Mobile phone insurance; and the first £300 of an account holders overdraft would be 
interest free. I can see that Miss W did travel, registered a handset under the Mobile phone 
insurance and used her overdraft. While Miss W did not drive, the Additions Active account 
was the cheapest account that Barclays offered that came with the benefits I think that Miss 
W could use if she chose to. So overall, I dont think that Barclayss recommendation was 
unreasonable.
I appreciate that Barclays may not have given Miss W all of the important information about 
the account. But I've not seen anything about her circumstances that makes me think she 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had she been given more information about it.
I accept that Miss W may now, with the benefit of hindsight, think that the Additions Active 
account has been poor value for money. But that in itself doesnt mean that Barclays was 
wrong to have sold it to her at the time.
So overall, Im not persuaded that the Additions Active account was mis-sold. And I think 
what Barclays has already offered to do in relation to the Additions account is enough to put 
matters right had the Additions account been mis-sold. I appreciate that this may come as a 
disappointment to Miss W, but I hope she understands the reasons why I have reached this 
outcome.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about the Additions 
Active account. And I think that what Barclays has offered to do in relation to the Additions 
account is sufficient overall.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman