DRN-2751209
The complaint
Mr R complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Moneyboat.co.uk) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr R borrowed £200 from Moneyboat on 11 November 2019. The loan was due to be repaid 
by three monthly instalments of £72.60 and a final payment of £72.55 due on 27 February 
2020.
Mr R says he made three repayments and then contacted Moneyboat to say that he felt the 
money had been lent to him irresponsibly. When he received no response, he says he called 
the customer services department and was told the balance would be waived and the 
account closed as long as didnt pursue the complaint. Mr R says he then received 
Moneyboats final response which said he still owed the final instalment. He says he has 
tried several times to get Moneyboat to investigate but the company threatened him with 
legal action if he didnt pay £182.20 in November 2020. Mr R adds that he has suffered from 
stress and anxiety as a result of the debt and the demanding letters.
Moneyboat says it conducted a credit check and asked Mr R about his income and 
expenditure. It says Mr Rs credit file only showed two loans in the last 12 months, of which 
one was already closed. Moneyboat adds that it verified Mr Rs income and employment with 
external data sources and its checks showed Mr R had enough disposable income to 
sustainably meet the repayments due on the loan. It says it also approved a lower amount 
than the original application. Moneyboat adds that Mr R chose to repay the loan over four 
months, rather than up to six, thereby increasing the monthly repayments.
With regard to writing off the outstanding balance, Moneyboat says it can find no evidence 
that such an agreement was reached.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Moneyboat carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate Mr R was struggling to manage his money. Our adjudicator could also 
find no evidence that Moneyboat had agreed to waive the final payment.
Mr R responded to say, in summary, that he asked Moneyboat to provide a list of his calls as 
evidence that it agreed to waive the final instalment, but it had failed to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.When Mr R applied for his loan, I can see Moneyboat asked him about his income and 
expenditure and checked his credit file. I have seen the results of Moneyboats credit check 
and it shows:
Mr R had a total balance of around £78,700 on 10 accounts:
o£75,600 on a mortgage;
o£300 on a loan;
o£1,400 on credit cards;
o£1,400 on overdrafts;
There were seven defaulted accounts;
oAll but two had been settled;
oThe total outstanding balance was £112;
oThe most recent default was from 2016;
All the overdrafts and credit cards were within their credit limits;
All accounts were up to date with the exception of a home credit account which 
became delinquent in December 2018 with a balance of £108.
Based on the above, I find Moneyboat should have realised that Mr R had understated his 
credit commitments, but I can see it adjusted Mr Rs expenditure figures accordingly and the 
repayments were still affordable to him.
I cant see that there was anything in Mr Rs credit file that should have indicated to 
Moneyboat that he was in current financial difficulties  there were no recent defaults and 
the historical ones had all been settled with the exception of a small outstanding balance. 
Mr R was also utilising less than half of a £1,000 overdraft on average.
So I cant conclude there was anything in the available information to indicate Mr R was 
struggling to manage his money, or that Moneyboat should carry out further checks. This 
was Mr Rs first loan with Moneyboat and the repayments were just 3.5% of his declared 
income. I consider the checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the lending and I 
find it was reasonable for Moneyboat to find the loan was affordable and that it made a fair 
lending decision.
Ive also considered what Mr R said about Moneyboat having agreed to waive the final 
instalment. Ive looked at the call log and listened to the relevant calls and I cant find any 
evidence that Moneyboat agreed to this.
I acknowledge that Mr R said the call happened towards the end of February, but there is no 
relevant call logged at that time. In fact in an email dated 16 March 2020, in which Mr R is 
responding about the final missed instalment on 27 February 2020 he says There was 
money in my account so I have no idea why it wasnt taken. Has anyone responded to my 
complaint as I feel the outstanding amount should be written off due to irresponsible lending 
and Ive also paid back more than I loaned already.
I consider this implies that no such agreement to write off the instalment was reached in 
February 2020. Indeed, in a call I listened to from 16 April 2020 Mr R says that hed 
discussed the write-off in resolution to his complaint and the agent had said let me go away and let me get back to you. Mr R then added that it was possible someone had said no, 
were not having that.
So, on the balance of evidence Im satisfied that Moneyboat never agreed to write-off the 
final instalment and that Mr R still owes the outstanding balance. Nevertheless I would 
remind Moneyboat that it should try to reach a mutually acceptable agreement for the 
repayment of this balance.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman