DRN-4263587
The complaint
Miss W complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund the money she lost 
when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
In October 2022, Miss W fell victim to a scam. Following receipt of what appears to have 
been a phishing text, Miss W was called by someone claiming to be from a firm she banks 
with. She was told her accounts were at risk. She was ultimately persuaded to move funds 
from her other accounts to Starling.
The caller than asked Miss W for payment details in order to move £500 to another account, 
which she agreed to. This involved her using the Starling app to approve the payment. 
Following this, she was persuaded to send two bank transfers to an individual, thinking this 
was necessary to keep her funds safe until her accounts were secured.
Miss W was told she would receive the money back within two hours. When this didnt 
happen, she realised she had been scammed and notified Starling.
Starling has been able to recover the bank transfers Miss W sent, but not the £500 card 
payment. It didnt agree to refund her for the outstanding loss. It said she would have seen a 
screen making it clear the payment was being sent to a particular merchant  as well as 
showing a scam warning. But it did pay £50 compensation for Miss Ws distress and 
inconvenience.   
Unhappy with this response, Miss W referred the matter to our service. She said she had 
reasonable cause to trust the person who called her. And Starling hadnt done enough to 
identify the payments as risky and warn her effectively. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt think Starling had cause to identify 
the card payment as presenting a fraud risk at the time, nor that it missed an opportunity to 
recover the outstanding loss. Overall, aside from the £50 compensation Starling had paid, 
the investigator didnt think it needed to take further action to put things right.
Miss W has appealed the investigators outcome, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. In summary, Miss W says the £500 payment was by far the largest payment she had 
made within a year, utilised a significant amount of the account balance (around 25%), and 
constituted a significant amount of her loss to the scam. So it should have triggered an 
intervention by Starling.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Miss W, who has clearly fallen victim to a scam. But having carefully considered the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded its fair to expect Starling to reimburse her for the 
remaining loss she is seeking. Ill explain why.
As the bank transfers have already been recovered/refunded, Ill only be addressing the 
£500 card payment.
It seems to be accepted that the card payment was authorised by Miss W. It seems she 
understood the steps she was taking would allow a £500 payment to be taken from her 
account. Its just that she was tricked about where/why it was being sent. Under the relevant 
regulations, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), that means it is deemed 
authorised. As she understood she was taking steps to make a payment (or at least to allow 
someone else to make a payment on her behalf). 
The starting position under the PSRs is that a customer is liable for a payment they 
authorise. Starling has a duty to act on authorised payment instructions without undue delay. 
But thats not an unfettered duty. There are circumstances when it might be appropriate for 
Starling to take additional steps before processing a payment. Such as when there are 
grounds to suspect the payment presents a fraud risk.
This appears to be the main crux of Miss Ws complaint; she thinks Starling should have 
identified the payment as potentially fraudulent, and so should have taken further steps to 
effectively warn her about the risk. 
Ive carefully considered the points Miss W has raised about why she thinks Starling should 
have identified the payment as suspicious. But overall, I think it would be too onerous on 
Starling to expect it to have intervened further before processing the payment.
While I appreciate the payment was more than any individual payments Miss W had made in 
the year or so prior, I dont think it was so significantly high or unusual that it ought to have 
given Starling cause for concern. Ultimately, a balance must be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any 
concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments, bearing in mind the 
volume and velocity of payments processed by banks. 
In order for the payment to be made, Miss W had to go into her app and confirm that she 
wanted to make it. The screen showed the amount and which merchant the payment was 
being sent to. So I think that would have offered Starling some reassurance it was likely 
Miss W making the payment, and that she knew where the payment was being sent to. 
The payment didnt completely clear the account balance. Miss W also didnt tend to hold a 
particularly significant balance in her Starling account. So I dont think the proportion of the 
balance utilised, or the overall context, meant the payment posed an obvious fraud risk. 
While I appreciate the significance of the loss to Miss W, I do ultimately think it was 
reasonable for Starling to process the payment request in line with the authorised 
instructions it received without intervening further.
It may be helpful to explain that, unlike the bank transfers, the card payment doesnt fall 
under the scope of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code for authorised push payment scams. Thats because card payments are a type of pull 
payment and are thus not covered by the code. We still expect banks to monitor card 
payments for fraud risks  and to respond proportionately when such a risk is identified. But, 
as set out above, Ive not found Starling had cause to suspect the card payment posed a 
fraud risk.I also agree with the investigator that Starling didnt miss an opportunity to recover the 
payment. As it was sent by card, its covered by the voluntary chargeback scheme. That 
offers limited recourse, under rules set by the card scheme provider, to charge back funds 
from the merchant paid. But that generally applies when there is an issue with the services 
of that merchant. Here, the money was sent to a genuine merchant, and Ive seen no 
suggestion there was an issue with their services; it seems they loaded/converted the funds 
in line with the payment instructions received. So I dont think Starling would have been able 
to help Miss W pursue a successful chargeback claim. 
Overall, I dont think Starling needs to take further action to put things right. It has paid 
Miss W £50 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. From what Ive seen, that 
appears to be a fair reflection of any unnecessary upset Starling caused her while 
considering her claim. Ive not seen anything which persuades me it ought to compensate 
Miss W further. And, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair to hold liable 
for the outstanding loss from the scam. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman