DRN-1599107
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained about the term assurance policy they were sold by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. They've said they wanted a level term policy but were sold a 
decreasing term policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A met with an adviser from Barclays in 2009 to discuss their protection needs. 
They had a policy in place to cover their mortgage but it was due to be reviewed. And this 
meant the cost of the premiums could potentially increase.
The notes from the time of the sale say they were looking for a policy with a guaranteed 
premium. They were 45 and 42 years old at the time. Mr A was in full time employment and 
Mrs A was a housewife. They owned their own house and had an outstanding repayment 
mortgage of £180,000.
The adviser recommended a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy with life and critical 
illness cover with a sum assured of £180,000 over a term of 22 years. Mr and Mrs A 
accepted the recommendation and took out the policy.
They complained to Barclays in 2019. Barclays didn't uphold the complaint. In summary, 
they said there was no evidence of any discussion between Mr and Mrs A and the adviser 
regarding level term assurance (LTA). And at the time of the sale they were issued with 
documentation which described how the policy worked. 
Unhappy with Barclays' response, Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to this service 
where it was considered by one of our investigators. He didn't think their complaint should be 
upheld. He thought the policy was broadly suitable for their circumstances at the time. And 
he also thought the documentation provided at the time made it clear that the policy was a 
DTA and not a LTA.
Mr and Mrs A didn't agree with his opinion. They said they hadn't seen or signed anything at 
the time of the sale which said the policy was decreasing. And they provided a policy 
document which referred to the policy as a LTA.
However, the investigator didn't change his opinion. He said it was most likely the policy 
document covered two different products. And the other documents he'd seen referred to 
the policy as a DTA.
He said Barclays had shown that they had sent documents to Mr and Mrs A which made it 
clear that the policy was a DTA. And despite not seeing any signed documents, he thought it 
was most likely that Mr and Mrs A had signed the relevant documents at the time.
Mr and Mrs A didn't agree so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, I'm not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why I've come to this 
conclusion.
The information from the time of the sale says Mr and Mrs A were looking to replace a 
reviewable policy they had in place. The reason given was that they wanted a policy with a 
guaranteed premium at a lower price than what they were currently paying. Their budget for 
the new policy was noted as £160.
I've considered if the policy the adviser sold them met this requirement. From what I've seen 
it was cheaper and had a guaranteed premium. It was also set up for the correct amount and 
term of their mortgage.So, it appears to meet the needs recorded in the fact find and to 
be suitable for their circumstances at the time. 
I wouldn't expect an adviser to recommend a level term policy to protect a repayment 
mortgage unless there was a specific need for extra cover. A level term policy would also 
have been more expensive than a decreasing term policy  this wouldn't have been in line 
with Mr and Mrs A's requirements at the time. It seems more likely they would've wanted a 
cheaper policy. So, on balance, I'm not persuaded they were sold a policy they didn't want.
Mr and Mrs A have said they didn't see any documents which said the policy was a DTA. 
And they haven't seen any signed documents which say they agreed to the policy.
Because of the time that has passed since the policy was taken out, I do not consider it 
unusual that the original signed documents can't be found. Despite the absence of the 
signed paperwork, Barclays have provided copies of documents from the time of the sale 
which were addressed to Mr and Mrs A. The suitability letter and illustration they've provided 
make it clear that the policy is a DTA. The suitability letter was sent by Barclays and the 
illustration was sent by the policy provider. I think it's most likely that these letters were sent 
to Mr and Mrs A at the time.
So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say they didn't consent 
to taking out the policy and that they weren't made aware that the policy was a DTA.
I've also considered the policy document Mr and Mrs A have sent in. The document refers to 
Level Term Assurance & Homebuyer Protection Plan. And I think this means it contains 
details for two different policies - a Level Term Assurance and a Homebuyer Protection 
Plan.
The other documents received from the policy provider refer to the policy Mr and Mrs A took 
out as a Homebuyer Protection Plan. And I think all these documents made it clear that the 
policy was decreasing, so I'm still not persuaded I can uphold Mr and Mrs A's complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly about this complaint. And while Ive no reason 
to doubt their recollections, in reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion I have to take 
account of all the evidence, including the documents created at the time of the sale. And 
unfortunately, having considered all the evidence, I haven't been persuaded their complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman