DRN-3952327
The complaint
Mr R complains that Salad Finance Limited trading as Salad Money lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr R applied for a loan from Salad Money in February 2022. The loan was for £1000 
repayable over 17 months by monthly instalments of £84.92. The total sum repayable was 
£1527.64.
Mr R complained to Salad Money about the decision to provide him with the loan. He said 
that checks wouldve shown that he had other debts and that there were gambling 
transactions on his account.
Salad Money didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it used open banking to assess the 
affordability of the loan and there was no information to suggest that the loan wasnt 
affordable for Mr R.
Mr R was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Salad Money had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that there was no information to suggest that the 
loan wasnt affordable for Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he thought Salad Money should have noticed the gambling 
transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. Ive 
had this approach in mind when considering Mr Rs complaint.
Salad Money needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
to Mr R irresponsibly. This means it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable way. These checks 
could take into account a number of things such as the loan amount, the repayments amount 
and Mr Rs income and expenditure.  
Ive looked at the checks Salad Money carried out. It used open banking to obtain 
information and carry out an affordability assessment. It gathered information about what Mr 
R was earning, what his expenditure was and what other debts he had.
The checks showed that Mr R had monthly income of around £1941 and average monthly 
expenditure of around £474. The checks also showed that Mr R had a car loan which he was 
repaying at around £288 per month, as well as three credit cards and a mail order account. 
Monthly repayments for the credit cards and the mail order account were around £226.
Salad Money didnt check Mr Rs credit report. It relied on information regarding debt 
repayments from open banking.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by Salad Money were reasonable and 
proportionate. Given that Mr R was already using around 30% of his income tom repay his 
existing debt, I think Salad Money should have carried out further checks to see how much 
external debt Mr R had, and how this was being managed.
Ive looked at Mr Rs credit report to see what Salad Money wouldve seen if it had carried 
out a credit check. It shows that one of Mr Rs credit cards had a balance of around £340, 
another had a balance of around £990 and another with a balance of around £3646. The 
repayments on all of the credit cards were up to date. The credit check also showed that Mr 
R had two defaulted agreements. These were a loan which defaulted in April 2018 with a 
balance of £951 and a current account which defaulted in October 2018 with a balance of 
£430.
Salad Money used open banking to estimate that Mr R was repaying debt at around £580 
per month. Based on what Ive seen in the credit report, I think this estimate is reasonable. 
Even though I think Salad Money shouldve carried out a further check by looking at Mr Rs 
credit report, Im satisfied that had it done so, it wouldnt have discovered anything which 
wouldve given it cause for concern or reason to think that Mr R wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay the lending. 
Mr R has said that Salad Money shouldve realised that he was spending significant 
amounts on gambling. Ive looked at the open banking information and I can see that there 
are some gambling transactions. However, these arent for large sums, and I dont think 
these transactions would be a reason for Salad Money not to lend to Mr R. 
Taking into account the amount of the loan and the cost of the borrowing, I think the checks 
carried out by Salad Money were reasonable and proportionate. I think further checks 
couldve been carried out, but Im satisfied that no further information wouldve come to light 
which wouldve given Salad Money a reason to think that Mr R wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay the loan.
Ive taken the points Mr R has made about gambling transactions into consideration, but I 
dont think these transactions were significant enough to give Salad Money a reason not to 
lend.
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think Salad Money lent irresponsibly to Mr R and I wont 
be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman