DRN-3992735
The complaint
Mr H complains that AmTrust Europe Limited withdrew cover and cancelled his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
In 2019, Mr H took out a travel insurance policy through a broker. The policy was intended to 
provide cover for a specialist sporting event. Mr H chose not to include cancellation cover.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the specialist event was postponed. As the policy was 
specific to the event, cover was extended until September 2022.
However, in October 2021, Mr H was diagnosed with a blood clot and prescribed medication. 
He told AmTrust about this diagnosis. AmTrust considered that Mr Hs new diagnosis, taken 
together with other co-morbidities, was a material change in the risk of Mr H needing to 
make a claim on the policy. It thought this level of risk was now too high and it told Mr H it 
was no longer prepared to insure him. Mr H was refunded the premium hed paid for the 
policy, although hes now told us that he didnt cash this.
Mr H was unhappy with AmTrusts decision. He said his treating consultant had agreed that 
he could discontinue with blood thinners. And he considered hed been in the same overall 
health that hed been in when hed taken out the policy. AmTrust maintained its position.
So Mr H asked us to look into his complaint. While the event organiser had told Mr H he 
could still take part in the event if he could find alternative insurance, he hadnt been able to 
do so. This meant Mr H hadnt been able to compete in the event and had lost a significant 
amount of money.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She noted 
that the policy contained a term which required policyholders to tell AmTrust if thered been a 
change in their health after the policy had been issued. She noted too that this term made it 
clear that AmTrust could change the terms of the insurance policy if it was notified of such a 
change. In this case, Mr H had told AmTrust about a change in his health during the life of 
the policy. And AmTrust had provided evidence from an underwriter that it was no longer 
prepared to insure Mr H, given the diagnosis hed received in October 2021.
In this particular case, Mr H hadnt taken out cancellation cover. Hed told us that he didnt 
think it was needed, given the proximity of taking out the policy to the sporting event. It had 
been the pandemic which had delayed the event. So the investigator didnt think it would be
fair or reasonable to ask AmTrust to cover the cancellation fees Mr H incurred as a result of 
not being able to participate in the event.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 January 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think AmTrust had treated Mr H fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Hs policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether AmTrust 
treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with AmTrust. Its common ground that the policy was issued in 2019, ahead of the 
global pandemic. In July 2021, following the postponement of the sporting event as a result 
of Covid-19, AmTrust agreed to extend the policy cover until September 2022. It seems to 
me that AmTrust agreed to extend the existing policy on the same terms upon which it had 
initially offered cover. No new contract was entered into at this point  and indeed, theres no 
indication that new terms were included or agreed. This means I think AmTrust was 
reasonably entitled to rely on its existing policy wording when dealing with Mr Hs policy.
Pages five and six of the contract set out Health Conditions which apply to the policy. One 
of these says:
If there are changes in health that affect a previously declared medical condition or 
additional medical conditions which have occurred before the start of the (event) and after 
the policy has been issued, you must contact (event organiser) immediately to advise of any 
changes in health. We have the right to change the terms of your policy in line with the 
change in risk.
The policy also includes a number of General Policy Conditions. On page 21, the policy sets 
out the following condition:
Tell us about a Change
You must tell us as soon as possible about any change in the information you have given us 
which is relevant to this insurance, for example, if there is any change in the information you 
gave us when the insurance started, particularly in relation to a health condition. If you do 
not tell us, your insurance may not be valid or may not cover you fully. If you are not sure 
whether any information is relevant, you should tell us anyway. We have the right to change 
any conditions of this insurance when you tell us about a change.
In my view, AmTrust has made it clear that if a policyholder suffers a change in their health 
during the life of the policy, they must let AmTrust know about it. And I think the policy 
makes it sufficiently clear that in some cases, such a change in health might lead to AmTrust 
changing the terms of the insurance contract.
Ive seen a copy of an email Mr H sent to his broker in March 2022. He told the broker that 
hed suffered a blood clot in October 2021 and had been prescribed blood-thinning 
medication, although I understand his consultant later decided against prescribing blood- 
thinners on an ongoing basis. AmTrust considered the diagnosis of a blood clot  especially 
taking into account Mr Hs age and co-morbidities  to be a significant and material change 
in the risk it had agreed to cover. Bearing in mind the nature of the event and the fact that Mr 
H would be some distance from medical facilities, I dont think this was an unreasonable 
position for AmTrust to take. And its clear that Mr Hs diagnosis with a blood clot in 2021
was a new condition which developed around two years after AmTrust had agreed to offer 
him cover. Under the terms of the contract then, I think AmTrust was entitled to assess 
whether it was still prepared to insure Mr H.
AmTrust has provided us with evidence from its underwriters showing that following Mr Hs 
change in health, it was no longer prepared to accept the risk of insuring him. This was 
based on an assessment of Mr Hs overall health, age and the nature of the sporting event.Im satisfied that AmTrust wouldve treated any other policyholder in Mr Hs circumstances in 
the same way. So I dont think it unfairly singled him out. As such, I find it was reasonable for 
AmTrust to withdraw insurance cover for Mr H.
As AmTrust was no longer prepared to insure Mr H, it appears it sent him a full refund of his 
premium  by cheque or credit note. So I now need to consider whether I think this was a fair 
and reasonable response from AmTrust. And I dont think it was, for reasons Ill go on to 
explore.
Its clear that Mr H took out this policy specifically to cover the specialist sporting event. 
Indeed, the policy terms make it clear that the policy was intended to insure participants in 
this particular event, as it was branded with the organisers name and the name of the event. 
So AmTrust had agreed to cover the risk of Mr H taking part in this specific event and during 
the course of it.
But following the change in Mr Hs health, AmTrust was no longer prepared to insure the risk 
of him taking part in the event. While, as Ive set out above, it was entitled to make this 
decision, it needed to ensure that Mr H was treated fairly. By Mr Hs account, he was unable 
to take part in the event without holding specific insurance. And it seems Mr H was unable to 
source replacement cover from other insurers following AmTrusts decision to withdraw the 
cover it had agreed in 2019, over two years before. This meant that Mr H was effectively 
prevented from taking part in the sporting event because of AmTrusts decision to no longer 
insure him.
Generally, if an insurer decides to withdraw cover during the life of a policy, I take the view 
that its fair and reasonable for that insurer to cover the cost of holiday cancellation at the 
time cover was withdrawn. I appreciate Mr H didnt hold cancellation cover. But I dont think 
thats relevant to the outcome here. By withdrawing insurance cover, AmTrust left Mr H in a 
position where he could no longer partake in the specialist event hed previously been 
insured for. And it also left Mr H significantly out of pocket for an event he couldnt take part 
in for reasons beyond his control. Im not persuaded that a simple premium refund here 
leads to a fair outcome.
Instead, I consider that a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be for 
AmTrust to pay Mr H the costs of cancelling the event, which wouldve applied at the time 
AmTrust withdrew his cover. I also consider that it should add interest to the settlement at an 
annual rate of 8% simple from the point cover was withdrawn until the point of settlement.
Im aware Mr H was sent a premium refund by cheque or credit note. It isnt clear if this has 
been cashed. If the refund has been cashed, AmTrust will be entitled to deduct the policy 
premium from any settlement it pays. If it hasnt, then AmTrust shouldnt make such a 
deduction.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider. Ive summarised each partys response below.
Mr Hs response
Mr H said that as no new contract was entered into, when the contract extension was 
agreed, the extended risks to AmTrust were carried over until the completion of the race and 
were collaterally included in the original contract. He said that AmTrust has built a reputation 
on speciality risks. It was not fair or reasonable to accept higher premiums for a specific risk 
over many years, particularly when most crew members had been party to the contract due 
to its specific nature.Mr H hadnt cashed the premium refund cheques hed been given, as he didnt think it was 
fair or reasonable for AmTrust to simply refund the premium in this case.
AmTrusts response
The policy made it clear that policyholders were required to notify AmTrust of a change in 
risk. Mr H had been forthcoming in disclosing his change in health during the life of the 
policy. If AmTrust determined that this change in risk meant that the risk was no longer 
coverable, it was entitled to cancel the policy and refund the premium. 
AmTrust pointed out that in this case, Mr H hadnt made a claim and so it hadnt turned down 
a claim unreasonably. It agreed with my findings that it had acted in line with the policy terms 
when it withdrew cover. 
However, it felt that my overall conclusions had been compared with how I would treat a 
simple holiday cancellation case, but this was a very different type of risk. The event wasnt 
a holiday  it was a competitive, physically demanding event and it didnt think it was 
appropriate to treat this event and a holiday in the same context. The implications if Mr H 
had taken part in the event and suffered health issues while doing so, were very different to 
if hed suffered health issues poolside. So it felt the associated risks were not comparable.
AmTrust agreed it was unfortunate that Mr H had been left out of pocket. But it maintained 
that Mr H had chosen not to add cancellation cover to his policy. And therefore it stated that 
it shouldnt be required to pay cancellation fees when this risk was categorically not covered 
by the policy Mr H took out. It didnt agree that my proposed redress was fair and reasonable 
to both parties. It considered I was, in effect, directing it to pay an ex-gratia award equivalent 
to the event fees, plus interest. But at no point had AmTrust insured the event or the fees. 
Instead, it suggested that Mr H should contact the race organiser. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Ive carefully considered the further submissions of both parties, I still 
dont think that AmTrust has treated Mr H fairly and Ill explain why.
The regulators principles for business require financial businesses to pay due respect to the 
needs of their customers and to treat them fairly. So Ive taken this principle into account 
when deciding whether AmTrust has acted in a fair and reasonable way, amongst other 
relevant considerations such as the law, the contract terms and good industry practice.
As I set out in my provisional decision, its clear that the terms of the contract Mr H and 
AmTrust agreed to in 2019 require policyholders to tell AmTrust about a change in their 
health after the contract has begun. Mr H seems to have been aware of this requirement and 
seems to have considered the DVT he suffered significant enough to bring it to his brokers 
attention. Under the terms of the contract, I accept too that following such a change in risk, 
AmTrust was entitled to determine whether or not it was still prepared to insure Mr H, and if 
so, on what terms. Accordingly, under the contract, it remains the case that AmTrust was 
entitled to withdraw cover and refund Mr Hs premium.
But Im not bound to make a decision based on contractual terms alone. I am required to 
decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. I can depart from a 
strict interpretation of the terms of an insurance policy, if I conclude that their application 
produces an unfair result. I still find that, in this case, a simple refund of Mr Hs premium following the withdrawal of cover (which is in line with a strict interpretation of the terms), 
produces neither a fair nor reasonable result.
Theres no dispute that the event Mr H was due to take part in was competitive, physically 
challenging and specialist in nature. There were clearly different risks associated with this 
particular event than the risks posed, for example, by a sunshine break. Ive borne that in 
mind. But I dont think such considerations outweigh the fact that, as a result of AmTrusts 
decision, Mr H was unable to take part in the event hed booked and paid for. Theres no 
medical evidence that he was physically not fit to take part in the event, nor that he was 
advised against doing so. Theres no indication that Mr H no longer wanted to participate in 
the event. It seems to me that the only reason Mr H wasnt able to compete, and therefore 
incurred cancellation costs, was because of AmTrusts withdrawal of cover. I say that 
because Mr H required insurance in order to take part in the event. Hed purchased this 
specific policy to allow him to do so and once cover had been withdrawn, he was no longer 
able to take part, for reasons outside of his control. He simply had no option to travel without 
cover in place, which AmTrust had withdrawn.
AmTrust may have been contractually entitled to withdraw cover. But it doesnt seem fair or 
reasonable for the losses which flowed from this decision, during the life of a contract both 
parties entered into in good faith, to rest with Mr H, to his detriment.
As such, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to find that a simple premium refund is 
fair in these particular circumstances. It remains the case that, generally, where an insurer 
has decided to withdraw cover during the life of the policy, I think its fair and reasonable for 
that insurer to cover the cancellation costs a policyholder will incur at that point. This is in 
line with what we generally consider to be good industry practice and our general approach 
to cases of this nature. Im not persuaded that the type of holiday which was being insured 
here means that its fair for me to distinguish this case from the way I may decide a 
complaint about a more conventional trip. I dont think it would be fair for Mr H to be 
disadvantaged by a departure from an approach my colleagues and I may often apply, 
simply because hed booked a non-standard type of trip.
AmTrust has placed some weight on the acknowledged fact that Mr H didnt choose to add 
cancellation cover to his policy. I mentioned in my provisional decision that I didnt think that 
fact was relevant to a fair outcome here. To expand on that, Ive looked at the cancellation 
cover Mr H wouldve had if hed paid the additional premium. The listed, insured events 
AmTrust has chosen to insure under the cancellation/curtailment section of the policy simply 
dont include cover in the event that AmTrust decides to withdraw insurance cover following 
a change in risk. And based on the circumstances that led to Mr H needing to cancel his 
participation in the event, I dont think any claim wouldve been covered under the 
cancellation section of the contract. So even if Mr H had paid an additional premium for the 
cancellation add-on, it seems it would have made no material difference to his ability to 
claim.
Overall, I accept that AmTrust considers Im directing it to make an ex-gratia award. I accept 
too that theres no insured event here, or a claim which is covered by the policy. In my view, 
by directing AmTrust to pay the cancellation fees which applied at the time it withdrew cover, 
together with interest, I am telling AmTrust to pay what I consider to be fair and reasonable 
compensation in the specific circumstances of this complaint. As Ive explained, I find this is 
in line with good industry practice. And so I still find that this is a fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AmTrust Europe Limited to pay Mr H the event cancellation costs which wouldve 
applied at the time it decided to withdraw insurance cover. I also direct it to add interest to 
the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date cover was withdrawn until the 
date of settlement.
If Mr H has cashed-in the premium refund hes been paid, AmTrust will be entitled to deduct 
this amount from any settlement it pays.
If AmTrust considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest it should tell Mr H how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr H a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman