DRN-3170149
The complaint
Mr B complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined his claim for legal 
expenses. All references to Acromas include its claims handling agents. 
What happened
Since the early 1990s, Mr B has been in correspondence with his local authority about 
flooding in his area. Throughout this correspondence, theres been a dispute about who is 
responsible for providing and maintaining a land drainage system, which the local authority 
says includes the ditch outside Mr Bs home. 
In early 2020, the local authority said that Mr B was the riparian owner of the ditch, in 
support of its arguments that he was responsible for maintaining it. Mr B claimed under his 
legal expenses cover in June 2020, hoping to establish that this wasnt the case.
In summary, Acromass position is that the claim is excluded on the basis that the dispute 
pre-dated the policy start date in February 2019. It accepts that it could have let Mr B know 
the outcome of the claim sooner, and has paid him £50 compensation for that. 
Mr B says it isnt a continuing dispute about responsibilities, but a dispute about a specific 
legal allegation (that hes the riparian owner), which wasnt made until after the policy had 
already started. And therefore Acromas should agree to cover the claim. 
Our investigator felt the claim had been declined fairly, and that £50 compensation reflected 
the impact of any delays. Mr B disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The burden of proof initially rests with Mr B to establish, on balance, hes suffered a loss his 
policy covers. His policy covers him for:
Legal costs for pursuing a legal claim and/arrangement of mediation for a dispute 
relating to your property which you own or is your responsibility;
following an event which causes or could cause physical damage to your 
property; or 
following a public or private nuisance or trespass
There may be an insured event here if Mr B were to claim that a failure by the local authority 
in relation to the ditch had caused or could cause physical damage to his property, or was a 
public or private nuisance or trespass. This would involve considering each sides duties.
However, like most before the event legal expenses insurance policies, the policy excludes 
claims where the chain of events giving rise to the legal dispute started before the policy 
began. This particular policy says it doesnt cover claims where the date of incident arose 
prior to the commencement of this Legal Expenses Cover. 
Date of incident is defined in the policy as the date of the event, or the date of the first 
event where there is more than one event arising from the same cause which may lead to 
a claim under this policy. I need to decide if Acromas has shown this exclusion applies.
In deciding whether a term like this has been applied fairly, we consider whether, at the point 
the policy started, the customer was aware of something that could lead to a legal dispute. 
We also consider whether the customer could reasonably have thought any pre-existing 
dispute had concluded, and whether the issue thats now arisen is in fact a new problem. 
As I understand it, to be a riparian owner is to own the land that is next to a watercourse or 
that has a watercourse running through or behind it. To reduce the risk of flooding, the 
riparian owner has a duty to maintain the watercourses on or adjacent to their land. 
Since the early 1990s, Mr B has been in correspondence with his local authority about 
flooding in his area, including the likely causes and whos responsible for mitigating them. 
Throughout that correspondence, the local authority has set out its view that the provision 
and maintenance of a drainage system (which, in its view, includes the ditch in question) 
rests with the adjoining landowners (without specifically referring to riparian ownership). 
In about 2000, the local authority seems to have alleged that the removal of a pond at Mr Bs 
property, and an increase in hard paved areas nearby, had resulted in more surface water 
reaching the drainage system. It said it wasnt responsible for dealing with these additional 
flows for the reasons given above. In one letter from that year, it specifically said the land 
drainage ditch was Mr Bs responsibility. 
In explaining this, the local authority referred to common law (which riparian ownership 
arises from), case law and (albeit in relation to a different ditch) its powers under the Land 
Drainage Act to require owners of drainage systems to maintain them. It referred Mr B to 
further information on Land Drainage and Flood Defence Responsibilities.
Its clear Mr B has always disputed this. In 2001, he said we have previously corresponded 
on the matter of whom is responsible for the maintenance of the ditch and notwithstanding 
our differing views This remained the case in 2020, when Mr B said we clearly have a 
difference of opinion about the ownership and responsibilities of the ditch
Mr B contends that the issue isnt with the ditch anyway, but with an underground pipe that, 
in his view, the local authority is responsible for maintaining as it accepts highway drainage. 
And recently, hes argued that the ditch is part of the highway, so isnt his responsibility 
regardless. Importantly though, hes said this claim is about whether hes the riparian owner 
of the ditch, not the flooding itself (although for cover to apply I think hed need to be alleging 
that some act or omission by the local authority relating to the ditch had caused, or could 
cause, physical damage to his property, or was a public or private nuisance or trespass). 
So, long before Mr B purchased the policy in February 2019, the local authority had alleged 
that increased surface water was reaching the land drainage system, and that the adjoining 
landowners (including Mr B) were responsible for maintaining that land drainage system 
(which, in its view, included the ditch) to prevent flooding, with reference to the relevant law. 
Mr B had made clear that he fundamentally disagreed that he had any such responsibility. 
And there had been ongoing debate about the ditchs role in recurring floods. 
Bearing the above in mind, I think Mr B ought reasonably to have been aware when the 
policy started that these were matters which could lead to legal action. And I dont think he could have thought the dispute had been resolved. As weve seen, neither partys stance on 
who was responsible for the ditch and its maintenance changed between 2001 and 2020, 
and Mr Bs 2020 correspondence complained that silt in the ditch, which hed first highlighted 
in 2011 and considered to be dangerous, was yet to be attended to. 
Turning to the crux of the matter, Im not satisfied that the local authoritys use of the term 
riparian owner marks the start of a new and distinct dispute. In alleging Mr B is the riparian 
owner of the ditch, the local authority has simply given a name to an argument it has been 
making for many years, which is that Mr B is responsible for maintaining the ditch as the 
adjacent landowner to prevent flooding, and which hes always disputed. 
The local authoritys use of the term riparian owner is, in my view, a continuation of a chain 
of events that pre-dates the inception of this policy by some distance. I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to use the date when the local authority first used the 
term riparian owner as the date of occurrence. Overall, I think it acted fairly in relying on 
the exclusion for pre-existing disputes to decline Mr Bs claim. 
In terms of Acromass handling of the claim, I note that, due to an administrative error, it 
didnt send Mr B its claim decision letter for a month after it was drafted. But I think £50 is 
enough to recognise the impact of that delay on an already longstanding dispute. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman