DRN-2903723
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited has unfairly declined the total 
and permanent disability (TPD) claim they made for Mr S under their Aviva life and critical 
illness policy. To keep things simple, Ill mostly refer only to Mr S in my decision. 
What happened
On the advice of a broker, in 2014 Mr and Mrs S took out an Aviva decreasing term life and 
critical illness policy in order to protect their mortgage. The policy included TPD cover  
Mr Ss TPD cover was based on activities of daily work (ADW) and the policy said a TPD 
claim would be paid if Mr S was totally and permanently unable to do three out of six specific 
work tasks.
In October 2019 Mr S submitted a TPD claim form to Aviva. In it, Mr S said he had a number 
of conditions and that these left him unable to do any of the six specific work tasks.
Aviva asked Mr Ss treating consultants for more information. On 18 December 2019 Mr Ss 
consultant orthopaedic surgeon (Dr H) said Mr S had avascular necrosis in both hips and if 
his hip pain deteriorated such that he was significantly disabled and didnt respond to pain 
management, then a total hip replacement should improve his pain and movement.
Aviva arranged for an independent medical examination (IME) by Dr W to determine 
whether Mr S met the policys TPD definition. Dr Ws report of January 2020 concluded Mr S 
wasnt permanently unable to do four of the six tasks. 
Aviva said Mr S hadnt met the TPD definition and declined the claim. Mr and Mrs S had 
further communication with Aviva. But Aviva didnt change its position or uphold the 
complaint they made about its claim decision. Ultimately, Aviva confirmed the policys TPD 
definition had always been based on ADW for Mr S because of the risks involved in his job 
when he applied for the policy. And said it hadnt been able to establish the permanence of 
his condition as there were treatment options still available to him.
Mr S complained to our service and provided medical evidence, including from a 
physiotherapist, a neurologist (Dr R) and Dr H. Mr S said this showed he met the TPD 
definition and that his symptoms wouldnt be resolved by the hip surgery Dr H suggested. 
And that he hadnt responded to medication and his Crohns disease left him with limited 
medication options. He also said that his TPD cover was based on own occupation not 
ADW, and provided a copy of Avivas A Guide to Critical Illness Cover to support this.
Our investigator found Mr and Mrs Ss policy documents showed Mr Ss TPD cover was 
based on ADW and not own occupation. And that Aviva had fairly declined the claim 
because the medical evidence suggested Mr S had further treatment options. 
Mr S thought he met the TPD term and that our investigator hadnt considered the medical 
evidence. In summary, he said:
 Hip surgery wouldnt improve his mobility, because his mobility problems were caused 
by neurological issues and not the avascular necrosis the hip surgery would treat. 
 To start with, Dr H wasnt aware of Mr Ss neurological issues, only his avascular 
necrosis and Crohns disease.
 Hip surgery was very risky for Mr S given his medical complexities, and this situation 
was affecting his health.
 Spinal fusion surgery in 2019 left Mr S with nerve damage with no options for surgery. 
And Crohns affected his ability to walk. 
 Dr W wasnt independent since they regularly worked for Aviva. 
 Mr S used a chair as an aid for the bending task. 
In October 2020, Mr S had double hip resurfacing surgery as suggested by Dr H. And he 
provided further medical opinion from his consultants. Dr H said Mr S had recovered well 
from surgery and it had resolved his hip pain. But that it hadnt resolved his background 
neurological issues, which Dr H explained he was unaware of when he gave his opinion in 
December 2019. 
And Mr Ss neurologist (Dr R) said the hip surgery didnt improve Mr Ss ability to walk, climb 
stairs or touch the floor and that his main clinical problem was severe neuropathic pain. Dr R 
noted the hip dislocations necessary during the surgery caused Mr S additional sensory loss 
affecting his right leg. And that neuropathic pain medication wasnt fully controlling his 
symptoms and further spinal operations wouldnt help.
But Aviva didnt change its claim decision, saying it was too early to tell what Mr Ss recovery 
from surgery would be as it would take about four to six months given his medical 
complexities. And it still thought Mr S might have further treatment options, in the form of 
talking therapies and a formal pain management programme. 
Our investigator didnt change her view either. Mr S provided further comments and 
evidence for consideration. In summary, he said: 
 Hed attended a number of talking therapies and his mental health wasnt connected to 
his ability to use his arms or legs.
 Dr R had amended his opinion and removed mention of a pain clinic, because Mr S had 
explored all pain management options. And there were no surgical or physiotherapy 
options either. 
 His consultants had confirmed his conditions are total and permanent.
 Dr H confirmed hip surgery wouldnt restore Mr Ss neurological function so it was 
never a treatment option, and Mr S was caused a great deal of unnecessary pain, 
distress and financial loss. And the hip surgery caused Mr S further nerve damage.
 Mr S began receiving state benefits based on his medical information from March 2019, 
demonstrating hes unable to work because of neurological issues. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me to for a decision. I 
issued my provisional decision on 28 April 2021, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say that Im very sorry to hear about Mr Ss health and about the financial 
difficulties he and Mrs S are having. And I can understand why this claim and complaint are 
so very important to them. But while I dont in any way wish to add to their distress, Im not 
intending to say a TPD claim should be paid to Mr S at this stage. Instead, I think Aviva 
should arrange a further IME for Mr S and then reassess his claim. I realise this isnt the 
definitive answer Mr and Mrs S hoped for but Ill explain my reasons.Before I do, Id like to say that I wont address each and every comment made by Mr and 
Mrs S or by Aviva. I mean no discourtesy by this and Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs S and 
Aviva that Ive considered all the comments and medical evidence theyve provided to our 
service as part of this complaint. But Ill only address what I see to be relevant to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
The crux of this complaint is that Aviva has unfairly declined Mr Ss TPD claim. I note Mr S 
has provided evidence hes receiving state benefits based on his inability to work. But to 
decide if Aviva has acted fairly in declining his claim, I need to consider the medical 
evidence against the relevant terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss policy  those terms 
form part of the insurance contract between Mr and Mrs S and Aviva. 
Im satisfied the documents specific to Mr and Mrs Ss policy show that Mr Ss TPD cover is 
provided on the basis of ADW. So for Mr Ss TPD claim to be paid, the following policy term 
must be met:
Total permanent disability- unable before age 65 to do 3 specified work tasks ever again. 
Loss of the physical ability through an illness or injury before age 65 to do at least 3 of the 6 
work tasks listed below ever again. The relevant specialists must reasonably expect that the 
disability will last throughout life with no prospect of improvement, irrespective of when the 
cover ends or the insured person expects to retire.
The insured person must need the help or supervision of another person and be unable to 
perform the task on their own, even with the use of special equipment routinely available to 
help and having taken any appropriate prescribed medication.
The work tasks are:
Walking - the ability to walk more than 200 metres on a level surface.
Climbing - the ability to climb up a flight of 12 stairs and down again, using the handrail 
if needed.
Lifting - the ability to pick up an object weighing 2kg at table height and hold for 60 
seconds before replacing the object on the table.
Bending - the ability to bend or kneel to touch the floor and straighten up again.
Getting in and out of a car  the ability to get into a standard saloon car, and out 
again.
Writing - the manual dexterity to write legibly using a pen or pencil, or type using a 
desktop personal computer keyboard.
For the above definition, disabilities for which the relevant specialists cannot give a clear 
prognosis are not covered.
Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to initially decline Mr and Mrs Ss claim, 
based on the medical information provided to it at that time. I say that because Dr Hs letter 
of 18 December 2019 said hip surgery should improve Mr Ss pain and movement. And 
Dr Ws IME report of January 2020 said In relation to the tests of permanence, he does not 
appear capable of walking 200m now, however after bilateral hip replacements he should 
easily achieve this, so this would not be a permanent disability. The same applies to climbing 
a flight of stairs and getting in and out of a saloon car. He can currently bend to the floor. He 
is not therefore in my opinion permanently unfit for four of the tasks. I am concerned about 
his manual dexterity and strength, and he could well be permanently unfit for writing, using a 
keyboard and lifting any significant weight with his right hand. This would need investigation 
before a clear prognosis is made.However, new medical information has since become available. In July 2020 Mr Ss 
neurologist Dr R said Mr S had a complex medical history that included Crohns disease, a 
generalised tremor, a weak right leg which gives way, neuropathic pain potentially stemming 
from an inguinal hernia repair operation in 2017, cervical radiculopathy for which cervical 
fusion surgery was carried out in 2019 but which was partially successful and left Mr S with a 
degree of right arm clumsiness with sensory disturbance, and severe persistent headaches. 
Dr R said In summary he now has significantly reduced mobility with prominent pain 
symptoms, especially in his right leg, which do not fully respond to analgesic or neuropathic 
pain agents. He struggles to walk 200m without stopping. The underlying causes are likely to 
be multi-factorial with neuropathic pain and musculoskeletal/spinal pathology as main 
contributors. His inability to engage in his previous employments or sporting hobbies has 
caused significant stress and anxiety. Unfortunately, further spinal surgery is unlikely to be 
helpful and symptom management at this stage will rely on physiotherapy and manipulation 
of drug treatment. With regards to the latter, his Crohns disease limits his ability to take 
adequate analgesia at times.
And Dr R provided further comments in August 2020, which Dr R later revised. The revised 
comments said:
He underwent a cervical fusion operation in July 2019 to treat a significant C6 cervical 
radiculopathy that had presented with weakness and pain down his right arm. The 
operation was partially successful although he has been left with right arm clumsiness 
and sensory disturbance. He also experiences severe persistent headaches that stem 
from the occipital region, probably reflecting increased muscle tension as a legacy of his 
neck procedure. 
His right leg is particularly symptomatic and tends to give way when walking. The main 
neurological issue most likely reflects neuropathic pain, potentially stemming from a 
right inguinal repair in 2017. The pain symptoms have been particularly severe for the 
last 6 months or so. As a contributing factor to his gait problems he also has been 
diagnosed with bilateral avascular necrosis of both hips and possibly knees as a 
consequence of previous steroid therapy for his inflammatory bowel disease. This 
component is less likely to be affecting his impaired gait compared to his neuropathic 
pain symptoms, however. An additional symptom that has caused concern is a 
generalised tremor that reflects so-called essential tremor. This affects several body 
parts, especially his upper limbs, and is associated with a sense of severe internal 
shakiness that adversely impacts on his general functioning. As is typical, the tremor 
has not responded particularly well to medication in the form of beta blockade 
(propranolol). 
In summary he now has significantly reduced mobility with prominent pain symptoms, 
especially in his right leg, which do not fully respond to analgesic or neuropathic pain 
agents. His exercise tolerance is limited and he struggles to walk 200m without frequent 
stopping. The underlying causes are likely to be multi-factorial with neuropathic pain and 
previous musculoskeletal/spinal pathology as the main contributors. Previous cervical 
spine surgery has helped the neuropathic pain in his right arm but has not significantly 
improved upper limb motor function or sensory impairment associated with his C6 
radiculopathy.
Unfortunately, further spinal surgery is very unlikely to be helpful. I cannot comment in 
any detail on his hip pathology and its treatment but it seems unlikely this aspect of his 
clinical picture explains the majority of his symptoms. Full symptom management with 
physiotherapy and manipulation of drug treatments has not been successful. With 
regards to the latter, his Crohns disease limits his ability to take adequate analgesia at 
times.In September 2020 Dr R provided further opinion, saying I am able to confirm that I think 
your pain symptoms are limiting the motor function of your right arm and leg in particular and 
that further spinal surgery is very unlikely to help. Also, a variety of analgesics and 
neuropathic pain agents have not fully controlled your symptoms. I can confirm what [Dr H] 
has said  your planned hip surgery will hopefully help any localised pain coming from the 
hip joint itself but will not affect neuropathic pain coming from your previous surgeries and 
your spine.
Mr S had double hip surgery in October 2020. In November 2020 Dr R said From feedback 
and contact with [Mr S] on November 9th, I can report that the operation has had no positive 
effect on his ability to walk 200m, climb stairs or touch the floor. His main clinical problem 
remains severe neuropathic pain as outlined in previous letters. I also note additional 
sensory loss affecting his right inner leg following the recent surgical procedure which 
probably resulted from the hip dislocations that were necessary for the operation. His 
neuropathic pain medication is not fully controlling his symptoms. I do not think any further 
spinal operations will help him at this stage.
In December 2020 Dr H said Mr S had recovered well from surgery and it had resolved his 
hip pain. But that Unfortunately he still obviously has the background pre-existing and 
permanent neurological issues with loss of sensation down the right side of his body, neck, 
arm and femoral nerve distribution. His active straight leg raise is only power 3-4/5 at most 
on the right side compared with normal 5/5 on the left. He has been informed from his 
previous neurology opinions nd [sic] consultations that this is likely to be permanent. 
And In terms of hip rehabilitation, he does not need any physiotherapy as such. The 
prognosis is that whilst his hip pain is now cured and general strength may improve on the 
left side over the next few weeks, it is likely that he will be left with the permanent pre-
existing reduced sensation and power in the right leg, particularly of hip flexion, due to the 
background neurology (previously documented at length by his neurologists) and this is 
likely to remain the same for the foreseeable future 
And in February 2021, Dr H confirmed they werent aware Mr S had neurological issues 
when they gave their opinion in December 2019 that hip surgery should improve Mr Ss hip 
pain and movement. 
Aviva considered this new information but said it was too soon to say if the hip surgery had 
brought improvements since it would expect Mr Ss recovery to take four to six months given 
his medical complexities. And that talking therapies and a pain management programme 
may be further treatment options for him. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think its fair for Aviva to still simply decline Mr Ss claim. I 
say that because further medical opinion from Dr H and Dr R says Mr H has neurological 
issues that impair his abilities and the hip surgery wont improve those. And because Mr S 
has now had his hip surgery and the four to six month recovery period Aviva said it was 
reasonable to expect has now passed. 
However, I dont think it there is sufficient evidence for me to fairly say Aviva should now pay 
Mr Ss TPD claim. I acknowledge Dr R says that Mr Ss hip operation has had no positive 
effect on his ability to walk 200m, climb stairs or touch the floor. But Dr Rs comments 
suggest this is based on what Mr S reported to Dr R rather than on an objective observation 
of Mr S attempting those tasks. 
I also acknowledge Dr R says further surgery is unlikely to help and Dr H says Mr S doesnt 
need any physiotherapy for his hips. But Aviva says Mr S still has further treatment options in the form of pain management programme and talking therapies. I dont think its 
unreasonable of Aviva to say this and Ill explain why.
Mr S says he has explored all pain management options, and Dr R says analgesics and 
neuropathic pain agents havent fully controlled Mr Ss symptoms and that his Crohns 
disease limits his ability to take adequate analgesia at times. But my understanding is that 
pain management programmes arent focused solely on pain medication but rather have the 
general aim of enhancing the quality of life for those with persistent pain and disability and to 
improve their participation in daily activities. Given Mr Ss medical conditions, I this its 
reasonable for Aviva to say a pain management programme is a further treatment option. 
But Ive not seen that Mr S has taken part in one or that his consultants have explained why 
this isnt a reasonable treatment option for Mr S.
Mr S says he has already attended several talking therapies. And based on whats hes told 
us, he attended these for reasons other than the impact of his physical health and mobility 
problems. Mr S says his mobility problems arent connected to his mental health. However, I 
note Dr R says Mr Ss inability to take part in his previous employments or sporting hobbies 
has caused him significant stress and anxiety. Given this, I think its reasonable for Aviva to 
suggest Mr S may benefit from talking therapies for his physical health and mobility 
problems. 
Also, Mr S says he used a chair to achieve the bending task during the IME in January 2020. 
At this point, its important to note the policys TPD term allows for the use of special 
equipment routinely available to help. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that special 
equipment has been considered and discounted as something that might benefit Mr S.
So I dont think theres currently enough objective and up to date evidence of Mr Ss ability to 
carry out the six specific work tasks as set out in his TPD policy term. And I think its fair to 
say theres uncertainty about whether further treatment options remain to Mr S. Taking 
everything into account, I think a fair and reasonable outcome here is for Aviva to pay for a 
new IME to be carried out to assess Mr Ss current ability against the relevant policy wording 
I have set out above, and to assess whether there are any further treatment options for Mr S.  
I know Mr S has questioned how the previous IME can have been independent as the doctor 
frequently worked for Aviva. They may have frequently worked for Aviva, but other than 
Mr Ss testimony, Ive seen nothing else to suggest Dr W may not have been impartial. 
However, in the circumstances I think it would be fair for Aviva to give Mr S a list of three 
suitably qualified examiners to choose from. And Aviva must make available to the chosen 
examiner all of the relevant medical evidence.
Following the assessment, Aviva should issue a further claims decision. If Aviva doesnt 
agree a claim is payable, Mr and Mrs S remain free to pursue a separate complaint about 
that matter if they wish.
Aviva didnt provide a respond to my provisional decision, but did contact Mr S with a choice 
of three medical examiners. 
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr S reiterated his complaint and provided further 
comments and evidence. Mr S provided two letters which he said showed hed explored the 
outstanding treatment options. This was a letter from mental health services dated 
12 May 2021 saying at present you will not go on for further therapeutic interventions, but 
that Mr S could access the service at any time for stress management. And a letter dated 
25 May 2021 from Mr Ss pain management consultant. It outlined Mr Ss health history and 
issues and said it would now expect the neuropathic pain to be permanent, and that this 
affected Mr Ss ability to carry out activities including walking, sitting and working. It went on to say that changing medication and using a TENS machine might possibly improve Mr Ss 
pain relief but that His care would be best served by a multi-disciplinary pain management 
programme to help improve the quality of his life and function. And that I do not expect 
treatments to impact on the work prognosis offered.
Mr S said Dr H examined him twice after his hip surgery and confirmed it hadnt resolved or 
improved his pre-existing neurological conditions. Mr S said hed been forced into having hip 
surgery to prove hed been right. And that the surgery caused further nerve damage 
affecting his groin and leg, and that hed developed calcification in both hips following the 
surgery, causing further pain and affecting his range of hip motion. Mr S thought the 
evidence from his consultants was sufficient for the claim to be paid and it was unfair for 
another Aviva doctor to examine him. 
Mr S told us more about how this situation was affecting his health. And that his financial 
situation was worsening, and hed incurred costs in proving his claim and the policy sum 
assured had decreased given how long things had taken so far. 
Mr S clarified hed used a motorised reclining armchair during Dr Ws independent medical 
examination for Aviva, and that he cant squat to the floor or stand up again on his own even 
with crutches. And Mr S said his TPD cover was on an own occupation basis. To support 
this he provided a page from an Aviva policy document. And explained hed called Aviva 
between December 2019 and January 2020 and it confirmed he was covered for his own 
occupation. So he thought his claim should already have been paid as he met the own 
occupation definition.  
Mr S also sent in a report from a physiotherapist he saw on 21 June 2021. The 
physiotherapist set out Mr Ss medical history and issues, and confirmed they could offer 
very little with regard to rehabilitation. And they assessed Mr Ss ability in walking, climbing, 
lifting, bending, getting in and out of a car, and writing. The physiotherapist concluded Mr S 
was unable to do most of these tasks, and that while he managed climbing and getting in 
and out of a car, he wasnt able to do these safely. 
Ive now gone on to make my final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by acknowledging what Mr S has told me about his circumstances. Im sorry 
to hear that things are worsening, and I realise this must cause both Mr S and Mrs S a great 
deal of worry and distress. I dont in any way underestimate how important this claim and 
complaint are to them both, and I dont wish to cause them any further worry and distress. 
But having carefully reconsidered all the evidence and information, Ive reached the same 
outcome as I did in my provisional decision. I know this will come as a very great 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, but Ill explain why. 
Mr S has reiterated his TPD cover is on an own occupation basis. The document Mr S 
recently provided to support this seems to be a page from A Guide to Critical Illness Cover 
which Mr S had previously provided to our service. This is intended as a general guide 
explaining the various types of cover Aviva provides. It is the policy schedule which specifies 
what type of cover Mr and Mrs S actually bought, and this shows Mr Ss TPD cover was on 
an ADW basis. Even if I accepted Aviva told Mr S he had own occupation cover during a call, I think Aviva would only have made an error by giving Mr S incorrect information. 
Because, as I say, the policy schedule specific to Mr and Mr S shows Mr S took out TPD 
cover on an ADW basis. And incorrect information in a call several years later doesnt 
change that or mean this claim should be assessed against the TPD own occupation 
definition. 
Mr S says the recent letters from his mental health therapist and his pain management 
consultant show the two outstanding treatment options Aviva suggested have been 
exhausted. I accept thats the case with regard to talking therapies. But Im not persuaded 
regarding pain management. I say that because the letter from Mr Ss pain management 
consultant does suggest Mr S may gain some benefit from a multi-disciplinary pain 
management programme. Based on this, I think a pain management programme may 
remain a reasonable outstanding treatment option for Mr S. 
And I note what Mr S says about the hip surgery not improving his background neurological 
issues and in fact worsening things because of calcification and further nerve damage. So 
Mr Ss medical situation has changed. I acknowledge Mr Ss view that his own consultants 
have provided enough evidence to show his claim should be paid and so its unfair for 
another Aviva doctor to examine him. But I still think its fair to say there isnt enough 
objective and up to date evidence of Mr Ss current ability to carry out the six specific work 
tasks as set out in his TPD policy term. 
Mr S has very recently provided a physiotherapist report that says hes unable to do most of 
the six specific work tasks set out in his TPD policy. Ive not considered this report in my 
decision because it hasnt yet been considered by Aviva and so it wouldnt be fair for me to 
comment on it at this point. However, our service will pass this report to Aviva, and Id expect 
it to be considered as part of the IME I think should be carried out. 
Therefore, I remain of the view that a fair outcome here is for Aviva to pay for a new IME to 
be carried out, by a suitably qualified examiner, to assess Mr Ss current ability against the 
relevant ADW policy wording, and to assess whether a pain management programme is a 
reasonable further treatment option for Mr S. 
Mr S says hes incurred costs in the course of this claim and that the sum assured hes 
entitled to is decreasing over time. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and 
here, I dont have sufficient evidence to say Aviva should pay Mr Ss claim at this time. So it 
wouldnt be fair of me to say Aviva should reimburse Mr S for costs hes incurred in obtaining 
medical examinations and reports in relation to this claim.
Instead, Ive said Aviva should carry out another IME and make available to the chosen 
examiner all of the relevant medical evidence. And that Aviva should issue a further claims 
decision following an assessment of the new independent medical examination. If Aviva then 
pays a claim, Id expect it to consider when that claim should be paid from and whether to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs S for costs they can show they have incurred in relation to the claim 
since this decision. If Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with Avivas new claim decision, they can 
pursue a separate complaint about that matter if they wish.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Aviva should pay for a new independent medical examination to assess 
Mr Ss current disability and whether a pain management programme is a reasonable further 
treatment option for Mr S. It should give Mr S a choice of three suitably qualified examiners 
to choose from. And make available to the chosen examiner all of the relevant medical 
evidence. Aviva should then issue a further claims decision following an assessment of the 
new independent medical examination.My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Aviva Life and Pensions UK 
Limited must:
Pay for a new independent medical examination to assess Mr Ss current disability 
and whether a pain management programme is a reasonable further treatment option 
for Mr S.
Give Mr S a choice of three suitably qualified examiners to choose from.
Make available to the chosen examiner all of the relevant medical evidence.
Issue a further claims decision following an assessment of the new independent
medical examination.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman