DRN-1188624
 
Complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr B was sold the policy when he took out a loan in 1998 by post. The cost of the PPI was 
added onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done that, I dont think Mr Bs PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Bs loan application offered him the option to take PPI or turn it down. Mr B ticked the 
option to buy PPI and signed specifically for the policy, separately to signing for the loan 
itself. He returned his loan application by post in his own time. Then the credit agreement 
described the PPI as optional and set out its costs separately to the costs of the loan  it 
was not part and parcel of the loan. And Mr B signed the agreement to confirm he agreed 
with what was on it, including the PPI. So I think that Nationwide made Mr B aware he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it out at the time.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so they didnt have to check if it was right for 
him or ask him about things like his sick pay or savings. They did have to give Mr B clear 
information about the PPI, so he could decide for himself whether it was right for him.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly  including the premium, the interest payable on 
the premium and the total cost, along with the total repayment it was covering. So it wouldve 
been clear how much the PPI would cost Mr B if he kept the policy for its full term, what it 
cost him each month, and what the benefit would be.
It is possible that Nationwide didnt point out all of the main things the policy didnt cover. But 
Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. So I dont think better 
information about the exclusions was likely to have changed his mind.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman