DRN-2906527
The complaint
Mrs M complains that a car she paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, (Santander) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. She also complains that the car was misrepresented to her.
Mrs M is represented in her complaint. However, for the sake of simplicity in this decision I 
have referred to all of the submissions from Mrs Ms representative as being made by Mrs 
M.
 
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement for a used car. The car 
was six years old and had travelled approximately 38,000 miles at the time. Mrs M said the 
dealer, D, said it would service and repair the car and provide the service history book. She 
said she was induced into buying the car on the basis the car had been prepared as agreed. 
Following collection of the vehicle on 2 September Mrs M became concerned. She said: 
A warning light became illuminated during the drive home. Mrs M said this was 
evidence of a fault but that D falsely declared it had forgotten to reset the warning 
light. Mrs M said this could only be done after a fault had been rectified. She said D 
was aware there was an underlying fault with the car, and if shed been made aware 
of this, she wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase.
The car accumulated an oily brown sludge in the coolant reservoir which Santander 
and D ignored. Mrs M said she had to pay a third party to investigate this.
D had told her the service history book was with the car but it was blank. She said 
she was told it was kept electronically.
D failed to notify her there was no spare key. She became aware of this at collection. 
D failed to notify her there was a MOT advisory that the rear tyres were perishing and 
cracking. She said she was later advised by the tyre manufacturer that they needed 
to be replaced but she said D refused to do this. 
Mrs M said she contacted D about the faults on 3 September 2019. She said no attempt was 
made to arrange to repair the car. On 16 September Mrs M arranged a diagnostic inspection 
by a third party garage, G, which noted a number of faults. 
Following the inspection Mrs M took the car to D on the same day along with a letter which 
explained she was handing back the car and no longer wanted it. She told Santander she 
was withdrawing from the agreement on this date also. Santander didnt action this 
withdrawal and continued to chase Mrs M for payments. Mrs M complained to Santander. 
In its final response Santander said there was a common sensor fault which had been 
repaired by D. It also said the repair took place at the same time as the cars spare key was 
coded on 16 September.  It said it had not been provided with evidence to show there was 
an issue with oil leaking into the coolant expansion tank. 
In May 2020 D refunded the deposit and cost of the diagnostic check. 
Mrs M did not agree with Santanders findings and brought her complaint to this service. She 
said continued demand for payments was affecting her emotional wellbeing. 
Our investigator was persuaded by Gs report confirming residue around the coolant 
expansion tank. She said Santander should have accepted rejection of the car after it 
received a copy of the diagnostic report on 14 October 2019. She also recommended 
Santander pay Mrs M £200 as compensation for the trouble and upset this situation caused.
Mrs M agreed with this conclusion. Santander did not. Both parties provided additional 
comments which, where necessary, I have responded to below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the correct outcome.
Santander is jointly and severally liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation made 
by the dealer. In deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ms complaint, I must take account 
of relevant law. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mrs M pursued a claim in court, which is something she has 
discussed with her legal representation. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts. 
My role here is to decide Mrs Ms complaint fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs M believes that her claim falls under both a breach of contract and misrepresentation. It 
is possible for there to be both in a successful claim in respect to different aspects of the 
goods supplied. But with respect to Mrs Ms car I believe this claim falls only under one.
Was there a misrepresentation? 
Mrs M believes this to be a claim of misrepresentation, in that the goods werent as 
described i.e. meaning a false statement of fact that induced the consumer to enter into the 
contract. She said D wilfully misrepresented that the car came with a service history book in 
the glove compartment, but in reality, it only had a blank duplicate service history book. She 
said she originally viewed the car on 27 August and D had agreed to service and repair the 
car prior to collection on 2 September, as well as provide the service history book. She said 
she was induced into signing the agreement on the premise that D had adequately prepared 
the car as agreed prior to collection. 
Im not disputing Mrs Ms version of events and it may well be that D said the service book 
was included and agreed to service and repair the car. But it is not enough that D said this. 
For there to be a misrepresentation I must be satisfied that the statement is false and it 
induced Mrs M to buy the car. Again Im not disputing Mrs M but its possible there were 
other features of this particular car which were equally or more persuasive. Im not aware of 
how the car was marketed or what features of a car were important to Mrs M prior to and at 
the time of making her decision. Under these circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to 
conclude the car had been misrepresented. 
Was there a breach of contract?A breach of contract would include that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mrs M. Whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on 
several factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. 
The car was six years old and had travelled approximately 38,000 miles at the time.
Mrs M became aware very quickly that there may be a fault with the car. On the drive home 
a warning light came on and she later noticed a brown sludge in the coolant reservoir. She 
also said there was an advisory on the MOT of cracked tyres.  Mrs M said she notified the 
dealer, but no attempt was made to offer to repair the car. She had the car inspected on 16 
September. Ive seen a copy of this report. The inspection appears to have been carried out 
by an independent third party. The report included the following notes: 
Fault code PO599L engine coolant thermostat heater control circuit high voltage
Coolant fan constantly on
Residue around coolant expansion tank
Further investigation needed
Slight cracking around rear tyres
Mrs M decided to reject the car. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 Mrs M has a short 
term right to reject within 30 days if the goods are of unsatisfactory quality. 
Santander told us D received two versions of Mrs Ms letter rejecting the vehicle, dated 14 
September and 16 September. D said Mrs M did make it aware she wanted to reject the 
vehicle. It said she presented various issues that D could not diagnose or find. D said the fan 
sensor was changed without Mrs Ms consent due to the fact the car was in its workshop 
having the spare key coded and it was a simple FOC (free of charge) fix. D said it was when 
the sales executive told Mrs M the vehicle was ready it received the second version of the 
rejection letter. 
Im persuaded by the technical evidence provided by G that the car had faults which were 
likely evident at the point of sale and that further investigation was required. Im not disputing 
Mrs M sent two letters on different days. It does appear Mrs M may have initially decided to 
reject the car on 14 September before the inspection. But Im satisfied she chose to reject 
the vehicle again on 16 September after the inspection and within the 30 days on the basis 
of faults identified independently and did not ask for the car to be repaired. 
Santander said it hadnt seen any evidence there was a fault with the vehicle. It said it would 
look at any evidence if it was submitted. It said the temperature fault was repaired by D. Mrs 
M has provided evidence of postage of the independent garage report, which included the 
note that further investigation was required with respect to the coolant expansion tank, to 
Santander dated 14 October 2019. So, while I accept its possible Santander did not receive 
this report Im satisfied it was sent by Mrs M in good faith. 
Santander went on to say Mrs M said she was withdrawing from the agreement. She said 
this was within the 14-day cooling off period. Santander said Mrs M did not exercise her 
short term right to reject, she wanted to withdraw. It explained that withdrawal is simply 
withdrawing from the finance itself not the vehicle. Therefore, it would have required Mrs M 
to settle her finance. Santander said Mrs M did not want to do this and has since not paid 
anything towards her finance agreement. But Im persuaded Mrs M did provide the evidence 
of faults and exercised her right to reject the car within 30 days. So Im satisfied she should 
be allowed to reject the car. 
Legal feesAs I mentioned previously our service is an informal alternative to the courts. Mrs M has 
asked for a refund of her solicitor fees. She said she instructed a solicitor because of letters 
received from Santander demanding payment. While I understand why Mrs M instructed a 
solicitor and she of course was within her rights to do this, Im not persuaded it was 
necessary. Under the terms and conditions of the loan Mrs M was required to make 
payments. I understand Mrs M wanted to reject the car and withdraw from the finance 
agreement, but it was up to Santander to agree that the payments could stop even under the 
circumstances where a consumer brings the complaint to our service and while it is being 
investigated.  So Im satisfied Santander was within its rights to pursue the payments and I 
wont be asking it to refund Mrs Ms legal fees.  
I can see this situation has been stressful and inconvenient for Mrs M and I consider £200 in 
compensation to be fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
 In order to put things right Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance, should
Treat the car as being rejected;
End the fixed sum loan agreement at no cost to Mrs M;
Remove any information about the fixed sum loan agreement that its recorded on 
Mrs Ms credit file;
Pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset this has caused Mrs M;
As Mrs M was deprived of the funds, apply 8% simple interest to the refund of the 
deposit and diagnostic check. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance, to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman