DRN-1752151
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc will not refund the money he lost after 
falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
On 27 May 2019, Mr M received a phone call from someone claiming to be from his bank, 
which Ill call Bank H. The caller told Mr M that someone had tried to pay money out of his 
account with Bank H. It turned out the caller was a scammer. The scammer told Mr M that 
every account he had in the banking system was compromised and that he needed to move 
his money into a new account that had been set up for him until the threat was cleared. 
Mr M fell victim to this safe account scam and transferred £10,000 from his accounts with 
Bank H. He also made an online faster payment of £2,800 from his RBS account to the 
account details provided by the scammer. Mr M says that he ended the phone call because 
he needed to go somewhere. The scammer told Mr M to go into branch the next day to sort 
things out. 
Mr M went into branch on 28 May 2019 and discovered hed been the victim of a scam. 
RBS said it would investigate and contacted the beneficiary bank to see if any funds 
remained.  
Mr M contacted Bank H directly about the money he transferred from his accounts held 
there, so in this decision Im only looking at the transfer he made from his RBS account.
RBS looked into things. It accepted Mr M had been scammed but didnt agree that the bank 
was responsible for the money hed lost. It told him no funds could be recovered. 
Mr M complained. He said the bank had let him down. He explained he didnt authorise the 
transaction to pay someone else and he didnt know he was talking to a fraudster when he 
made the payment. He explained he thought he was talking to a genuine financial institution 
and transferring the money into a holding account in his name. He also pointed out RBS has 
signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) to refund scam victims.  
RBS looked into Mr Ms concerns. In its final response, it said there was nothing further it 
could do. It explained it couldnt accept any liability for the payment because Mr M had 
authorised it himself. It said it had tried to recover the money from the beneficiary bank but 
no funds remained. It explained there was no obligation to check the account name matched 
the account details provided. 
Mr M was unhappy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
said the bank should have raised the difference between the account name and the account 
number with him before paying the money. 
Our investigator looked into what happened but didnt recommend that RBS should refund 
Mr M. She didnt think the payment would have appeared particularly unusual or suspicious 
at the time it was made. She also noted Mr M didnt speak to or interact with RBS staff at the 
time he made the payment, so the bank didnt miss an opportunity to identify the payment 
was being made as part of a scam. She considered Mr Ms point about the name on the 
recipient account not matching. But she explained there was no obligation for the bank to 
check this information at the time Mr M made the payment. She added that the CRM Code 
wasnt in force at the time. 
Mr M disagreed with the outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint 
afresh. He was disappointed that banks will be able to check if the account name matches 
the account details in the future. He pointed out hed been the victim of a scam and has lost 
out because the bank did not carry out the diligence it should have. He thought it was poor of 
the bank to say it was under no obligation to refund the money because the CRM Code 
came into force the day after he made his payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr M and I can understand why he wants to do all 
that he can to try and recover his money. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose. But having 
thought carefully about RBSs actions, I think it acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
payment to leave Mr Ms account. I also think it took appropriate steps to try and recover the 
funds from the beneficiary bank. I dont agree that RBS could have done more than it did to 
help Mr M. So I dont think I can fairly say RBS needs to reimburse Mr M with the money he 
lost. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, so I will explain why.
In this case, I need to decide whether RBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr M when it processed a payment of £2,800 to a new payee. The starting point is that RBS 
should follow Mr Ms instructions and make the payment he requests unless it had a reason 
to be concerned that Mr M might have been at risk of financial harm. 
Mr M sent the payment to the scammer without any interaction with the banks staff. When 
Mr M made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer, so he sent the 
money in good faith. This means that at the time he wanted the payment to go ahead and 
authorised it to be made. 
Ive thought about the increase of sophisticated scams in recent years and whether it would 
have been reasonable to expect RBS to have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the payment, especially as I consider that as a matter of good practice RBS 
should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
But looking at Mr Ms account history and the size of the transaction, I dont think the 
payment Mr M was making would have stood out as being particularly unusual or out of 
character. Although he was paying someone hed not paid before, Mr M regularly made 
transfers between his accounts and hed moved a similar amount from his savings to a credit 
card around a week before the scam happened. The payment was within Mr Ms arranged 
overdraft limit, leaving enough money to pay the regular direct debits due that week.  
So I dont think the payment was so unusual or suspicious in comparison to Mr Ms normal 
account activity that it ought to have alerted RBS that he may have been at risk of financial 
harm. 
I dont think RBS has missed a clear opportunity to intervene and stop the payment from 
being made. This means RBS didnt do anything wrong by following the instructions Mr M 
gave and sending the money. RBS discovered Mr M had been the victim of a scam the next day. The banks records show 
that it did try to recover the money hed sent when it became aware of what had happened. 
Unfortunately, no funds remained. I think RBS did what it could at that time to help Mr M. 
Scammers typically withdraw funds very quickly, and often before the sender has realised 
theres been a problem. 
Mr M feels RBS has let him down because it should have realised and told him the account 
name didnt match the account details. But at the time Mr M made the payment, banks 
werent required to check the name on an account. So Im unable to fairly say that RBS 
should have checked the account name before making the payment. 
Mr M has pointed out that RBS has signed up to the CRM Code, which says a customer can 
expect to be reimbursed where they were not to blame for the success of a scam. But the 
CRM Code came into force on 28 May 2019, the day after Mr M made his payment. The 
CRM Code sets out that it doesnt apply to any payments completed before it came into 
force. Mr M has also pointed out that 27 May 2019 was a bank holiday in England and 
Wales. But faster payments made on a bank holiday will still leave the account immediately, 
even if they show as the next working day on the account statement. So Im not able to say 
RBS should consider reimbursing Mr M under the provisions of the CRM Code when it 
doesnt apply to the payment he made. 
After carefully considering everything, while Im very sorry Mr M has been the victim of such 
a horrible crime, I think the banks decision not to refund him with the £2,800 he lost was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman