DRN-3565098
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Richard Carew Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) 
pension with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he might have lost out as a 
result.
The adviser firm was an appointed representative of Cambrian Associates Limited (CAL) 
who are responsible to deal with this complaint. Ill refer to CAL throughout my decision for 
ease of reading.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22
December 2017.
Mr B met with CAL for advice on his pension in September 2017. A fact find and attitude to 
risk questionnaire were completed during this visit. They showed:
Mr B was 55, married with two non-dependent children, and in good health.
He earned £36,000 per year. He and his wife owned their house and were mortgage 
free. Mr B and his wife had savings of £23,000 and a car lease agreement costing 
£170 per month. Mr B had disposable income of £1,784 per month. His wife was also 
working and earned £20,000 per year.
Other than the BSPS pension, Mr B had joined the new company defined 
contribution (DC) pension scheme in April 2017 with 10% employer and 6% 
employee contributions being paid into it.
He expected a state pension of around £7,000 from age 67.
Mr B wanted to retire at 56 or more likely 57.
His attitude to risk was recorded as balanced and his capacity for loss as moderate 
Mr B was concerned with the security of his employer and wanted to know whether a 
transfer was in his and his familys best interest.
He wanted £2,000 per month income in retirement. Early retirement from scheme 
would be unaffordable as early retirement factors would bring down income to 
£15,000 per year
He wanted flexibility to pay for any life changing events when and if they arose
He wanted to leave his benefits to his wife and children and didnt want his pension 
to die with him
A financial planning report dated 11 October 2017 shows CAL recommended Mr B to 
transfer his BSPS benefits worth just £594,257 to a personal pension. 
Mr B complained to CAL in 2020 about the advice he received. He said he complained after 
he received a letter from the regulator telling him they believed many customers had 
received unsuitable advice with regards to their BSPS pensions. He used the regulators 
attached advice checker and felt the advice given to him was poor. He said he didnt know 
whether he was worse off as a result, but if he was he wanted to be compensated.
CAL rejected his complaint and Mr B referred it to this service. One of our investigators 
upheld his complaint. He agreed CAL had given unsuitable advice.
As CAL disagreed with this outcome, Mr Bs complaint was referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. CAL
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in
Mr Bs best interest. (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not
satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
financial viability
CAL acknowledged in their suitability report that the growth needed to match Mr Bs DB 
benefits in the personal pension (critical yield) was not achievable. They said if Mr Bs 
decision was only based on trying to achieve a better income in retirement they would advise 
against a transfer.
I agree with CALs assessment here and I think it was highly likely Mr B would end up with 
overall lower pension income in retirement by transferring his DB pension.
CAL say Mr B had other objectives which were more important to him and could only be 
achieved by transferring so I considered their arguments.
Early retirement
Mr B told us he was looking to retire maybe around 60. He only ended up retiring shortly 
before his 57th birthday due to personal circumstances. However, looking at the 
contemporaneous evidence from the time of sale it looks like Mr B was looking to retire at 56 
or more likely at 57. Its recorded in the fact find and is mentioned a couple of times in the 
suitability report. I think if Mr B was looking to retire later he more likely than not would have 
queried this. So I think it was reasonable to see whether early retirement at 56 or 57 was 
feasible.It's recorded that Mr B was looking for a retirement income of £24,000. He would need this 
amount until 67 and then it could then be reduced by the amount of the state pension 
thereafter (so to around £17,000).
First of all I think the income requirements werent properly discussed. Its unclear where the 
figure of £24,000 comes from. Its possible that Mr B had this figure in mind or that CAL 
based it on Mr Bs outgoings at the time. However, even if this is what Mr B thought he 
needed, I would have expected the adviser to challenge this figure and explore with him 
what his plans were in retirement and what outgoings were expected in retirement. 
I cant see evidence that this is what happened here. I also note that the fact find uses Mr 
and Mrs Bs joint income and their joint outgoings. So I would have expected CAL to ask 
about Mrs Bs circumstances, for example when she was looking to retire and how much 
pension income she was expecting. I dont accept CALs argument that because Mrs B 
wasnt present and they addressed their advice to Mr B alone, his wifes income and 
retirement plans are irrelevant. As said above the income and outgoings as well as assets 
were recorded as joint. And to fully understand Mr Bs income requirements and plans in 
retirement I consider his wifes details just as important. They should have been considered.
I cant see that CAL explored whether early retirement could be achieved through the DB 
scheme. Early retirement penalties in the DB scheme were mentioned and on a pension 
transfer questionnaire it was noted that early retirement from the scheme wasnt affordable 
as the scheme would only pay £24,000 from 65. It seems to me the early retirement option 
from the DB scheme was quickly discounted without detailed discussion.
CAL was aware of the time to choose exercise which was happening around the time of the 
advice. So I would have expected them to take into account the available options or, if Mr 
Bs pack had not been issued to him yet, to wait for this to happen before they gave their 
advice. By the time Mr B turned 56 or 57 the BSPS scheme was expected to have moved to 
the PPF. Given that Mr B was looking to retire early and likely would have wanted tax-free 
cash (TFC) I think the PPF option would have looked more attractive than BSPS2 due to the 
better early retirement and tax-free cash commutation factors.
I cant see that PPF benefits from age 56 were explored at the time of the advice but CAL 
have helpfully provided a cash flow analysis now which stipulates that Mr B could have had 
around £102,000 in TFC and an income of around £15,000 per year from the PPF at age 56.
In my view Mr B could have used the TFC to supplement his annual income (which would 
increase every year) to £24,000 until age 67 and taking his benefits this way would have 
allowed him some flexibility without paying much income tax. If he waited until age 57 before 
he took benefits the amounts would have been even higher. At age 67, his income from the 
PPF and the state pension would have totalled around £22,000 (before applying 10 years 
worth of increases). I appreciate thats short of £24,000, particularly if I assume this figure 
was a net income figure (which although CAL have worked on this basis I cant see that this 
was clarified in the suitability report or fact find).
However, as set out previously I cant see that a net income figure of £24,000 had to be met 
from Mr Bs income alone under all circumstances. In fact CAL in the course of this 
complaint worked out that to cover essential outgoings an annual income of £16,380 was 
required (and this would have been for Mr and Mrs B). 
The guaranteed and increasing income the DB scheme could provide at early retirement 
was still significant and it should have been properly considered whether this was sufficient 
to meet Mr Bs needs. His income from age 67 more than covered the joint essential 
household income and Mrs B would also receive her state pension. It was also noted she had a pension of her own (although it wasnt recorded how much this was). Mr B also had 
his DC pension which would have accrued contributions for another year or two and could 
have been taken flexibly. Overall, I think early retirement from the PPF would have likely met 
Mr Bs income needs.
Flexibility and death benefits
Flexibility sounds attractive to most, but I cant see that Mr B had any concrete need for it 
other than his wish to retire early. And if he decided to take lump sums from his pension in 
addition to his income from his personal pension there was further risk he would deplete his 
funds in retirement.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. However, whilst death benefits might be
important for consumers, there generally shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this
compared to their own retirement needs. And the existing death benefits with BSPS were not
to be underestimated. Mr Bs wife would have received a guaranteed spouses pension for
life which would have been valuable if Mr B predeceased her. The idea of being able to 
leave the transfer value to Mr B and/or his adult children when he died would have been 
attractive. However, if Mr B lived a long life or decided to take out more income in earlier 
years there might be not much left to provide Mrs B with necessary income in retirement.
Mr B was in good health and so more focus should have been on ensuring he would receive 
the best possible retirement benefits over a long period of time.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Lots of Mr Bs colleagues at the time were transferring out of the scheme and Mr B said 
some colleagues said it was a no brainer to get their money away from BSPS. I think its 
likely Mr B was worried about the security of his pension and its quite possible that Mr B
was leaning towards the decision to transfer.
However, it was CALs obligation to give Mr B an objective picture and recommend what
was in his best interest. However, even if the scheme went into the PPF, Mr B could have 
retired early and maintained his guaranteed benefits. I cant see that this was properly 
explained to him or CAL did enough to alleviate these concerns. And given that it was in his 
best interest to stay in the DB scheme, the possible loss of opportunity to transfer his 
pension in future shouldnt have been a significant concern to Mr B.
summary
Its possible that Mr B was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from
colleagues that this is what they were doing and he was very concerned about the possibility
of his pension falling to the PPF. And I dont doubt that flexibility, control and higher death
benefits would have also sounded like attractive features. But CAL wasnt there to just
transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really
understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interest.
I appreciate CAL included some risk warnings in their suitability report. However, this
doesnt replace suitable advice. Mr Bs fear about the PPF and the security of his pension
should have been put into perspective. 
Mr B was able to retire early from the DB scheme and secure a guaranteed and index-linked 
income and spousal benefits for life which would likely be higher than what he could achieve 
in his personal pension. By transferring he ran the risk of not being able to sustain his 
income or even deplete his funds. I cant see that the flexibility to take income differently or receive lump sum death benefits justified taking unnecessary risks with his pension. So Im 
not persuaded a transfer was in Mr Bs best interest here.
If CAL had recommended him to stay and explained their reasons properly why Mr B would 
be better off staying in BSPS and that going into the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought, I think Mr B likely would have followed their advice.
If Mr B had stayed in the BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the
PPF or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2. So I carefully considered what Mr B likely
would have done nearly a year later had he been given the choice of either the PPF or
BSPS2 and placed into an informed position regarding the features, risks and benefits of
both options. On balance I think Mr B wouldve likely opted for the PPF.
I say this because at the time Mr B wanted to retire early. BSPS2 wouldnt have decreased 
Mr Bs initial entitlement by 10% like the PPF and some of his benefits would have had 
potentially higher increases in BSPS2. However, early retirement factors in the PPF were 
lower and commutation factors for tax free cash entitlement were more favourable under the 
PPF. So overall, its likely Mr Bs income and tax-free cash entitlement would have been 
higher in the PPF.
Under BSPS2, the spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Bs pension at the date of
death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. So the
spouses pension would likely be lower in the PPF. However, I think on balance his own
benefits and higher tax-free cash which he and his wife could benefit from earlier in
retirement would have been more important to him.
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late summer 2022. 
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
Mr B  has retired and I think hed done the same if he had gone into the PPF as explained 
above.  Due to the lower early retirement reduction factor which would have applied in the 
PPF, I think (albeit without certainty in advance of knowing the detailed terms of the buy-out) 
that entry into the PPF would have produced an overall better outcome for him. As such, I 
think its more likely the case that there would be no deficit in the PPF benefits which could 
be made up by the buy-out process.
For this reason I require CAL to undertake a redress calculation on the current known basis, 
rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to 
provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties, and bring finality to proceedings.If Mr B accepts this decision, he will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as set out 
above. Its important that Mr B is aware that, once any final decision has been issued, if 
accepted, it cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would have remained a member of BSPS and subsequently moved to the PPF. Mr B started 
taking retirement benefits shortly before his 57th birthday and I think he would have done the 
same if he had moved to the PPF. So calculations should be made on this assumption.
CAL must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
CAL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition CAL should pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date
CAL receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CAL
to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that thebusiness pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Cambrian Associates 
Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require to 
pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Cambrian 
Associates Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Cambrian Associates Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Cambrian Associates 
Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman