DRN-3453302
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy a claim made under her home insurance policy has been declined by 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
In February 2019 cracks to the walls and sinking of the kitchen floor was discovered in 
Mrs Ms home. A claim was made under Mrs Ms home insurance policy underwritten by 
RSA.
RSA declined the claim for the cracks and floor sinking as they said an insured peril under 
Mrs Ms insurance policy hadnt occurred. Mrs Ms representative approached this service on 
her behalf and asked us to look into the complaint.
One of my ombudsmen colleagues considered the complaint. He said RSA had fairly 
declined the claim based on the information they relied on. And he said that RSA didnt need 
to take any further action or arrange any further surveys into the cause of cracking.
However, he said that if Mrs M engages her own surveyor and provides a report, he would 
expect RSA to consider this and let Mrs M know if it changes the claim position.
Mrs M subsequently obtained her own surveyor report and submitted this to RSA for 
consideration. RSA looked at the report, but they said it didnt change the claim position, and 
maintained the claim was declined. 
Mrs Ms representative brought a new complaint about the most recent claim declinature 
following her surveyor report to this service. They also brought a complaint about policy 
premiums charged to Mrs M by RSA after she didnt want to renew, and a separate 
complaint relating to delays in drainage repairs being completed, and the costs incurred as a 
result.
Our investigator looked into things. In relation to the claim decision based on the new report, 
she said that RSA had acted fairly in maintaining the claim declinature. She said that the 
report commented on what subsidence is and how it occurs more generally. But she said the 
report wasnt conclusive in confirming what had happened to Mrs Ms property.
The investigator also said that for a claim to be covered, even if the floor sinking was due to 
subsidence, in line with the policy terms, there would also need to be subsidence damage to 
the walls and foundations, but that hadnt been demonstrated. So, she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs Ms representative didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M is being represented in her complaints to this service. Where Ive referred to Mrs M, 
this also includes any actions carried out on her behalf by her representative.
As Ive outlined above, one of my ombudsmen colleagues looked into the original decision 
by RSA to decline the claim. And they said RSA had acted fairly. As that complaint and claim 
decision has already been considered by this service, Im not able to revisit that as part of 
this complaint.
Mrs M has also raised separate complaints about RSA continuing to take premiums after 
she asked for the policy to end. And shes also complained about delays in drainage repairs 
being completed, and costs incurred as a result. However, Im not considering those 
complaints here. This decision solely relates to the claim decision based on the new 
surveyor report obtained by Mrs M. Im looking at the other two complaints separately and 
will issue my decision on those separately too.
The claim is in relation to cracking and movement in Mrs Ms home. The cracking is present 
in some walls and the kitchen floor has sunk. And there is some displacement in some 
paving slabs externally. Mrs Ms representative believes the property is subsiding so has 
tried to make a subsidence claim under Mrs Ms policy.
The claim was originally declined on the basis RSA didnt conclude subsidence was causing 
the damage. And my ombudsman colleague said the conclusions reached by RSA were fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs Ms policy covers subsidence damage. However, there are also exclusions in the policy 
terms. This includes, under the subsidence section:
What we dont cover
Damage to patios, paved terraces, footpaths, tennis courts, swimming pools, hot 
tubs, garden ponds, statues and fountains permanently fixed into the ground, drains, 
septic tanks, pipes and cables, central heating fuel storage tanks, drives, walls, 
fences, hedges and gates  unless your home is damaged by the same cause and at 
the same time.
Damage to solid floors or damage caused by solid floors moving  unless the 
foundations of the outside walls of your home are damaged by the same cause and 
at the same time.
So, this says that for damage to, or movement of, floors to be covered (if it was subsidence 
related), there would also need to be damage to the foundations of the outside walls by the 
same cause and at the same time. Mrs M subsequently obtained her own surveyor report, and this was submitted to RSA for 
consideration. RSA said the report outlines what subsidence is but the cracking to walls isnt 
consistent with subsidence. And the report gave possibilities of why the flooring could have 
issues. But the report didnt conclude there was damage to the walls or foundations as a 
result of the same cause at the same time, so even if the floor was subsiding, it wouldnt be 
covered in line with the exclusion. So, RSA maintained the decision to decline the claim.
Ive considered the report completed by Mrs Ms surveyor. The report details what 
subsidence is, and how it can occur more generally. The report makes reference to the 
possibility of subsidence causing damage to the kitchen flooring, but it doesnt make any firm 
conclusions, and it also gives other possibilities. And importantly, it also doesnt connect 
cracking to the walls to the same cause at the same time, or to the foundations, which is a 
requirement under the policy terms as Ive outlined above.
The report comments on some displaced paving slabs and roots under them, but also isnt 
conclusive the roots are causing subsidence. Or conclusively that the roots are causing the 
problem with kitchen floor, or walls or foundations, or at the same time - which is a 
requirement under the policy terms and subsidence cover.
Mrs M sought further clarification from her surveyor when our investigator said she didnt 
think the report was conclusive. This was provided to our investigator, who also shared this 
with RSA. But this additional clarification didnt change our investigators (or RSAs) view of 
things. 
Ive also considered the follow up communication from Mrs Ms surveyor. This adds further 
detail of how and why subsidence can occur more generally. But it doesnt provide 
conclusive evidence that this is what has happened at Mrs Ms property. Or that this affected 
the floor slab, the walls or paving or foundations, at the same time, by the same cause - 
which is a requirement under the policy.
With this in mind, I dont think RSA has acted unfairly by maintaining the decision to decline 
the claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman