DRN-3982346
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service received from TransUnion International UK Limited trading 
as TransUnion (TU) when trying to access his credit file.
What happened
Mr D says his credit information with his bank, who Ill refer to as L, had incorrect information 
which led to him having problems accessing credit. He says he was told to contact TU to 
resolve this issue, and did so on 18 August 2021, but says the process was dragged out for 
nearly a year without progress unless he contacted them for an update. 
Mr D says he even went as far as printing out the support application form from their website 
and sent it to their UK address by post, but this failed to get any meaningful update either. 
Following that, Mr D contacted TU by a different email address, which got a response  
telling him to register on the Electoral Roll (ER). After doing this, he sent in evidence, and 
waiting again, asked for an update. Several months went by, and still the issue wasnt 
resolved, even though TU said no further action is necessary.
TU provided Mr Ds ER information, and said they were sorry for the delay in resolving the 
complaint as it was obvious this had a detrimental impact on the resolution of his concerns. 
This response was sent in October 2022.
Unhappy with this Mr D asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
overall felt TU had delayed trying to resolve matters for Mr D  so awarded him £150 
compensation. Our Investigator also said TU should send Mr D his statutory credit report, 
and if he then identified any incorrect data, they should help him raise disputes about that. 
Mr D accepted this, but TU never provided a response to these findings to our Investigator. 
Because of that, the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
In August 2023 we asked Mr D if hed managed to get access online now  and he 
confirmed he had, though this was a recent development. He said hed been contacting TU 
since August 2021 in an effort to try and get the matter resolved.
More recently we asked TU for some further information  and in the course of those 
questions theyve accepted they didnt explain matters properly to Mr D  and said sorry for 
not sending the paper report to Mr D as our Investigator had suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information provided by TU its not entirely clear why Mr D had such issues in 
accessing his credit report online. But, whats clear from the information Ive got is he did 
have issues for at least a year  but theyre now resolved.
TUs approach when someone tries to access their information online is to try and verify 
them, and then if they cant theyll offer to send a paper copy of the report once the person 
has been identified. In Mr Ds case, he says he didnt receive a paper copy, TU say they did 
send one.
I think the key point in Mr Ds case though is he wanted to access his report online, and Im 
not currently satisfied TU did enough to help him with this.
At the time I understand it was TUs policy to simply say theyd not done anything wrong  
but upon proof of identity would send a paper copy of the report. But, in offering online 
access to their customers, they should offer this to all their customers  and in particular help 
those who cant get access to the report online.
This help wasnt offered to Mr D at all. Instead, Ive seen emails Mr D has sent to TU not 
being answered at all, or not answered properly, leading to inconvenience over a sustained 
period of time. 
I understand the matter has now been resolved, and TU have said their processes have 
changed and they tell people now why they cant access their report online. This is a positive 
move and I hope means people in future wont experience the same issues Mr D has had.
But, given all the issues, I think compensation is fair for the impact Mr D has experienced. I 
can see hes been ignored at times by TU, but Im also aware he was able to access his 
report through L. So, although he had problems getting his report online directly through TU, 
he could have accessed it when he needed to. 
Taking all of this into account then, Im satisfied £150 is a fair way to put matters right.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require TransUnion International UK Limited to pay Mr D £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman