DRN-4092791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Connells Limited wrongly told them that their existing mortgage 
offer could be extended. They ended up paying much more each month, because it couldnt.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G obtained a mortgage offer through a broker, Connells, in April 2022. Their 
offer was valid until 22 September 2022.
Mr and Mrs G were buying a new home. Unfortunately, their purchase was delayed, and in
August 2022 they sought assurances from Connells that their mortgage offer could be
extended. Connells said it could. Mr and Mrs G then asked to transfer the offer to a different
property. But in early October, Connells told the couple that they couldnt transfer the offer,
as it had expired.
Mr and Mrs G then obtained a new mortgage offer, but they said theyd expected a fixed
interest rate of 2.55%, and theyd ended up having to take a much higher rate, of 4.08%. So
their monthly payments were much bigger. They said Connells had only offered £450 for its
mistake, and that wasnt enough to make up for what had gone wrong.
Connells accepted it had made a mistake, because it had told Mr and Mrs G that their April
mortgage offer could be extended, when it couldnt. But it said it wouldnt pay the difference
between the mortgage payments Mr and Mrs G were expecting, under the offer that expired
in September, and the mortgage payments they were making now. Thats because Mr and
Mrs G could never have got this better interest rate, they just werent able to buy their new
home while the April mortgage offer was still valid.
Connells said it would pay them £450, to make up for their disappointment.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. I wont set out his reasoning in detail here, as I
havent agreed with it. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, so the case was passed to me for a final
decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
On 18 August 2022 Connells told Mr G that the existing mortgage offer would run until 
April 2023, at the same rate. That was wrong, and Connells accepts that it shouldnt 
have said that. Connells continued to say this to Mr and Mrs G, until early October.
What Connells ought to have told Mr and Mrs G in August, was that the mortgage offer 
they had obtained in April was expiring soon, and couldnt be extended past 22 
September. So, whilst Mr and Mrs G could continue with their existing purchase, or 
transfer the offer to a new property, that wouldnt give them very long to buy either 
property.
If Mr and Mrs G had been given the right information in August, I dont think its likely 
that they would have been able to complete either purchase before this offer expired  
we know that their first choice of property had delays to completion, and the second 
wasnt ready at the start of October. But I think they did have another option, if theyd 
been correctly advised by Connells in August, which was to obtain a new mortgage 
offer.
I think its likely that if Mr and Mrs G had been told in August that the April mortgage 
offer couldnt be extended, then they would have looked to obtain a new mortgage offer 
quickly. Interest rates had by then been rising for some time, and its likely that Mr and 
Mrs G would have anticipated further changes. I can see that Mr and Mrs G acted very 
promptly, both in seeking reassurances from Connells about their expiring offer, and 
indeed, in seeking a new offer, once they were finally told that their April offer had 
expired. So I think they would probably have started the process of obtaining a new 
mortgage offer right away, if Connells had given them correct advice on 18 August. I 
think its likely that this revised application would have been submitted at the start of the 
following week, on 22 August.
But Mr and Mrs G didnt make a new mortgage application in August, because they 
didnt find out that their April offer had expired until later. It looks, from the notes Ive 
seen, as if Connells was told by the lender that the offer had expired on Friday 30 
September, and it passed this information on to Mr and Mrs G On Monday 3 October.
Mr and Mrs G then acted right away, they sought and obtained, a new mortgage offer 
from a different lender.
We dont know whether this second lender would have been able to offer a lower rate 
than they eventually got, if Mr and Mrs G had made their application on 22 August 2022. 
But if Mr and Mrs G could have obtained a mortgage from that lender for the same 
amount, on the same property that they eventually bought, but at a slightly lower interest 
rate, on 22 August 2022, then I would say it was fair and reasonable to ask Connells to 
pay the difference. I think asking Connells to pay that now, would be part of providing a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
So I will ask Connells to obtain, from the second lender that Mr and Mrs G applied to, 
details of the interest rates which would have been available to Mr and Mrs G from that 
lender in October 2022, if the same application had been made on 22 August 2022. Ill 
ask Connells to use this information to work out how much less Mr and Mrs G would 
have paid, over the fixed interest rate period, if they had applied on 22 August for the 
mortgage that I understand they secured in October 2022, and then actually took out 
around December 2022.
This should be on a like-for-like basis, so the same lending amount, the same overall 
term and the same fixed rate period, although if the fees for this lending would have 
been different, then Connells may allow for any difference in fees which would have 
been charged on any application made on 22 August 2022. Connells should then pay 
that amount to Mr and Mrs G, as a lump sum. That will assist with both past and future 
mortgage payments for Mr and Mrs G.
Connells has also offered Mr and Mrs G £450 in compensation for the upset and
disappointment that they faced when they realised that they wouldnt be able to get the 
rate theyd applied for in April 2022, of 2.55%. I think it remains appropriate to include 
this compensation payment to reflect what actually happened, and their disappointment, 
so Ill include that in my award too.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G said my decision didnt secure the interest rate that he and Mrs G had planned on, but 
he could accept it, if Connells was fair with the rate that would have been available in 
August. He said there had been a noticeable rate rise just before they signed their mortgage.
My provisional decision explained that the offer Mr and Mrs G obtained, with the rate they 
had planned on, would always have expired before they were able to buy the property they 
wanted. So Mr G would unfortunately never have been able to get the rate he planned on, 
even if Connells hadnt made a mistake. And I have no reason to think that Connells would 
not comply with my proposed decision in full. 
Connells said it would accept my proposal. It said it had contacted Mr and Mrs Gs lender, 
and if the application had been submitted on 22 August, then the monthly payment would 
have been £1,719. The monthly payment on Mr and Mrs Gs current mortgage is £1,803.57, 
a difference of £84.57. So Connells said that, over 60 months, the amount due would be 
£5,074.20. Adding the agreed compensation, Connells said that complying with my decision 
would mean a total payment to Mr and Mrs G of £5,524.20.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Connells Limited must obtain from the second lender that Mr and 
Mrs G applied to in October 2022, details of the interest rate it would have been able to offer 
on the same lending, if this application had been made on 22 August 2022 instead. Connells 
must then work out the difference, if any, between the payments Mr and Mrs G are making 
now, and the payments they would have made, over the fixed interest rate period of their 
mortgage. Connells must pay any resulting amount to Mr and Mrs G, as a lump sum.
Connells Limited must also pay Mr and Mrs G £450 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman