DRN-4138928
The complaint
Mr C is a sole trader. He has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt paid enough 
to settle his loss of income insurance claim.
Ageas is the insurer of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its agent. As 
Ageas has accepted it is accountable for the actions of its agent, any reference to Ageas 
includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
Mr C had insurance with Ageas for his holiday home which he lets. The policy ran from      
30 July 2019 until 29 July 2020. Mr C claimed on his policy in early 2020, after his business 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
Ageas initially declined Mr Cs claim but then offered him cover for a weeks closure. Mr C 
complained to our service about this. Our Investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and 
recommended that Ageas pay Mr Cs claim for the first lockdown under the clause which 
provides cover for losses as a result of a notifiable disease at the home. This was because 
the Investigator thought that Mr C had demonstrated that it was most likely that there had 
been a case of Covid-19 at Mr Cs holiday home prior to the requirement for it to close. Our 
Investigator thought that the case of Covid-19 which occurred at Mr Cs holiday home was 
one of the cases which contributed to the Governments decision to place restrictions on     
Mr Cs holiday home from March 2020 and recommended Ageas pay for his loss of income 
which commenced in March 2020.
Ageas accepted the Investigators recommendation and agreed to pay Mr Cs claim. It paid 
him for losses between 20 March 2020 and 29 July 2020, plus interest at 8% simple per 
annum. Ageas said that the claim was only payable up to the point the policy ended and that 
a claim for further losses would need to be made separately under the new policy which 
incepted on 30 July 2020.
Mr C said that the period of loss he is claiming for is from 20 March 2020 until 21 June 2021, 
as he was unable to open during this time. He said that the policy had renewed on the same 
terms and thought Ageas were acting against the outcome of the Supreme Court judgment 
in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case by not 
paying the entire claim period he thought was due. Mr C asked our service to consider this 
complaint.
Mr C told us that hed been impacted considerably by the pandemic and by Ageas not 
paying his claim. For example, hed needed to take out a loan, borrow money from a family 
member, use credit cards and withdraw money from his pension. Mr C thought Ageass 
reluctance to pay his claim had also negatively impacted his credit rating.
Ageas raised a second claim and asked Mr C for evidence to demonstrate that there had 
been a new occurrence of Covid-19 at his holiday home. Ageas said to our service that it 
appeared that Mr C had been able to reopen his holiday home from 4 July 2020 and, while it 
had paid his claim until the end of the policy period, any further claims would need to be as a 
result of a new case of Covid-19 at the holiday home.
Mr C said that it had been established that a case of Covid-19 had occurred in his holiday 
home at the beginning of the cover but, in any event, the wording of the policy didnt require 
Covid-19 to have occurred in the home in order to provide cover. Mr C also said that Ageas 
had breached GDPR regulations by requesting confidential client information before it would 
issue a claim.
Mr C said that, when he was able to reopen his holiday home, the groups that visited were 
severely reduced due to the restrictions in place. Mr C provided information from the 
Government which said that from 4 July families could stay away from home overnight but 
only with up to one other family.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and recommended that it be upheld in part. He 
thought that a court would most likely find that the clause within the policy did require the 
case of Covid-19 to be within the holiday home. He thought that Mr Cs losses had been 
caused by the Government restrictions and he didnt think that the case of Covid-19 which 
occurred at Mr Cs holiday home was a continuing cause of the ongoing restrictions as       
Mr Cs business was able to reopen from 4 July. Our Investigator didnt think the restrictions 
on households mixing were a restriction on Mr Cs premises in the context of his policy 
wording. He thought it was reasonable for Ageas to say that Mr C needed to demonstrate 
that a new case of Covid-19 had occurred at his premises in order to trigger a second claim. 
He did, however, think that Mr C had experienced inconvenience due to Ageass handling of 
his claim. He recommended Ageas pay Mr C £500 to compensate him for this.
Ageas did not indicate whether it accepted the recommendation but Mr C did not agree with 
our Investigators recommendation and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He provided a 
detailed response which in summary said:
Ageas initially refused to acknowledge the claim and requested personal 
correspondence between Mr C and his broker which breaches GDPR.
He considers his claim to be one claim for the period 20 March 2020 to 21 June 
2021.
If Ageas considers that its interpretation of the policy wording is incorrect, then Mr C 
questions why it paid the claim until 29 July 2020.
He is unhappy with the amount he has received in payment for the claim.
Ageas is relying on an ambiguous exclusion to avoid paying anything further. If it was 
correct that the policy required the disease to have occurred at the home then the 
payment would have been limited to three days. Any ambiguity should be interpreted 
in favour of the insured. Mr C also referred to the principle of contra proferentem.
He considers the main legal arguments which need addressing are: 1) was there a 
valid legal contract/insurance policy and who was the insured party; 2) was there a 
clause for loss of rentals and if so how should it be applied; 3) how should a period of 
determination be calculated; 4) what is the quantum.
Mr C questioned why Ageas renewed the policy using the same wording in the 
clause.
Ageas had indicated to our service that it would pay the remainder of Mr Cs claim on 
the same basis as the first.Our Investigators assessment was biased and in favour of Ageas. In order to reach 
his conclusion on how the clause should be read, our Investigator had needed to 
redraft the clause.
Mr Cs broker asked an unrelated person how they would read the clause and they 
interpreted it in the same way as Mr C  i.e. that the disease does not need to occur 
at the home.
A notifiable disease is a pandemic and as such cannot be limited to the home.
Mr C would like the Ombudsman to consider all of the matters raised and award 
according to DISP 3.7 and DISP 3.7.2R, plus costs. £500 is not sufficient to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience Mr C has been caused.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 April 2023. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of detailed points. While Id like to reassure him that I have 
considered them all, I am going to focus on what I consider to be the central issues. This 
reflects the informal nature of our service and my role.
The claim period
This type of insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but different 
policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the policy 
terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if Ageas 
has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
refusing to pay anything further for Mr Cs claim.
I do not believe it is in dispute that there was a contract/policy in place between Mr C and 
Ageas for the period 30 July 2019 to 29 July 2020 (policy one). The contract/policy renewed 
for the period 30 July 2020 to 29 July 2021 (policy two).
I have started by considering whether Ageas has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy with how it has considered Mr Cs claim.
Section 1 of Mr Cs policy has a heading which says, We will also pay for. The relevant part 
of this clause says:
Loss of hiring charges as a result of any occurrence of murder or suicide or 
notifiable disease or illness arising from or traceable to foreign or injurious matter 
in food or drink at the Home.
Following involvement from our service Ageas agreed to pay Mr C under this clause for 
losses incurred until 29 July 2020. I think this was fair and reasonable and will explain why.
I am aware that Mr C considers this clause to be ambiguous but a clause is not ambiguous 
just because it can be read in more than one way. The starting point to interpreting a 
contract is to consider what a reasonable policyholder with all of the background knowledge 
that would reasonably have been available to the parties when they entered into the contract 
would have understood the language in the contract to mean. This is tested at the time the 
parties enter into the contract rather than with the knowledge of hindsight.Having considered this clause, I think it is most likely that a court would find that the 
notifiable disease or illness needed to occur in the home to provide cover. I think that is the 
natural reading of the clause and the one which makes most commercial and linguistic 
sense. I dont think a logical reading of the clause would require that only an illness arose 
from food or drink at the home when all of the other parts of the clause could occur 
anywhere. It would also result in an unreasonably broad reading of the clause for a murder, 
suicide or disease to provide cover where they occur within an unlimited area. While the 
occurrences of Covid-19 in early 2020 led to it being declared a pandemic, I do not think that 
any instance of a notifiable disease is automatically considered a pandemic, as a pandemic 
occurs when the occurrence of the disease is widespread. I think that it is reasonable to 
consider that Mr Cs ability to let his holiday home could be impacted by the occurrence of a 
notifiable disease at his premises which isnt declared a pandemic. Therefore, I think that 
Ageass interpretation of the clause is reasonable and the insured event was the case of 
Covid-19 occurring at his home.
That means that under this clause Ageas needed to pay Mr C for his losses that occurred as 
a result of Covid-19 occurring at the insured premises. I understand that Mr C believes that if 
this were the case then the insured period would only be a few days however, I dont agree. 
That is because I think that each case of Covid-19 which occurred prior to the requirement 
for Mr Cs holiday home to close was an equal cause of the UK Governments decision to 
require the closure.
The requirement for businesses such as Mr Cs to close was set out within the Health 
Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020. On 3 July 2020 the 
Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions (No. 2) (England) Regulations 2020 were 
[made] and revoked the previous regulations. I believe that when the regulations were 
revoked in July 2020 this ended the indemnity period under Mr Cs policy for this claim 
period. I say that because the restrictions which had been put in place as a result of the 
disease which occurred at his premises prior to the requirement to close in March 2020 were 
no longer in place.
Mr C has pointed out that even after 4 July 2020, the size of groups who could visit his 
holiday home were severely restricted. However, I dont think that any restriction on group 
size was as a result of the case that occurred at his home in March 2020 and instead was 
the result of later occurrences of the disease which occurred elsewhere.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the 
following judgments are helpful when considering this complaint: Stonegate Pub Company 
Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) (Stonegate), 
Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) (Greggs) and Various 
Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE). Thats 
because one of the issues considered by the Court was whether losses sustained beyond 
the expiry date of the policies were caused by occurrences of Covid-19 when the policy was 
in force.
In Stonegate the relevant period of insurance came to an end on 30 April 2020. The court 
said (at paragraph 209):
....responses were not equally caused by the cases before the end of the Period 
of Insurance, but rather were predominantly caused by more recent cases, and 
the threat of future cases, at the time of the adoption of the measure in question.
In VE the period of insurance came to an end on 28 September 2020. At paragraph 48 the 
court summarised the findings from Stonegate to reject VEs argument that losses 
throughout the maximum indemnity period had been caused concurrently and equally by all of the cases of Covid-19 which had occurred within the relevant radius. The court said:
(1) the decisions in the FCA Test Case do not establish that all cases of Covid-
19, whenever occurring, were equal concurrent causes of the governmental 
actions and public response at any given time; (2) the fact that the cases of the 
disease occurred in Period of Insurance may have caused the later cases of the 
disease (because cases make cases) is not sufficient to say that the cases of 
the disease in the Period of Insurance were the proximate cause of governmental 
measures and public response after the Period of Insurance; and (3) the death 
blow or grip of the peril principle is inapplicable.
In Greggs, the Court said at paragraph 39:
it appears highly doubtful that, on any view, there can be said to have been 
only one period of interruption or interference. It seems certain that the degree of 
interruption or interference with Greggs business changed over time between the 
first cases of Covid-19 and the end of the Indemnity Period
I believe that these judgments support my view that the case of Covid-19 which occurred at 
Mr Cs home in March 2020 and was a concurrent cause of the restrictions which meant he 
was unable to let his holiday home, was not the cause of any further restrictions after the 
holiday home was allowed to reopen.
Therefore, I think that the case of Covid-19 which occurred at Mr Cs home in March 2020 
led to his losses between 20 March 2020 and 4 July 2020. I am aware that Ageas paid 
beyond 4 July, until the end of Mr Cs policy period, but I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Ageas to pay Mr Cs claim beyond 29 July 2020 just because it 
paid more than it needed to by paying for losses beyond 4 July 2020.
As I believe that the insured event of Covid-19 occurring at Mr Cs home ended while policy 
one was in force I think it was reasonable for Ageas to say that any further claim for losses 
beyond 30 July 2020 would need to be raised as a separate claim under policy two. In order 
to be successful in that claim, Mr C would need to demonstrate that there had been a further 
occurrence of Covid-19 within his home which had led to a loss. I havent seen anything to 
support that there was a further occurrence of Covid-19 within Mr Cs home so I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Ageas to decline a further claim.
Mr C has queried why Ageas renewed the policy without making any changes to the wording 
of the clause. It is for Ageas to decide which risks it wants to cover and I dont think its 
decision to renew the policy with the same wording makes a difference to the outcome of    
Mr Cs claim.
Ageass communication and handling of the claims
Ageas agreed to pay Mr Cs claim in February 2022. In an email dated 10 March 2022, 
Ageas was clear that it considered the claim period was between 20 March 2020 and 29 July 
2020. For the reasons set out above, I think that was reasonable. However, I think that after 
it accepted the claim and looked into things, Ageas indicated that a second claim would be 
accepted and paid, although it later decided that a second claim would not be covered as 
there hadnt been a new occurrence of Covid-19 at Mr Cs home. While I think Ageass 
decision in relation to the claim was reasonable, I think this loss of expectation would have 
been distressing for Mr C and I have taken this into account when considering what I believe 
to be a fair amount of compensation. I dont think that Ageas indicating that it would pay the 
second claim means that it has to pay the claim as I havent seen anything to indicate that 
this has caused Mr C any financial loss that he wouldnt have had if Ageas had explained things properly.
I also think that Ageas not accepting Mr Cs first claim straightaway caused him distress and 
inconvenience and Im pleased to see that Ageas agreed to pay Mr C 8% interest on the 
settlement to compensate him for being without money that he should have had.
I have considered Mr Cs point about Ageass request for information breaching GDPR and 
that this delayed the claim. Its not for me to decide whether Ageas breached GDPR but if it 
did, I can consider making an award for the impact of any breach. I understand that Ageas 
requested Mr Cs claim notification to the broker. I dont find that unusual and insurers will 
often ask for the claim notification details. However, Im pleased to see that Ageas took      
Mr Cs concerns into account when settling his claim and amended its request for 
information. Overall, I dont think that Ageass request for information unreasonably delayed 
the claim for longer than it would have been otherwise. I say that because Ageas declined 
the claim, albeit unreasonably and I have considered that when making an award of 
compensation.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that £500 is a fair and reasonable amount for 
Ageas to pay Mr C to compensate for its errors that I have set out.
The amount Ageas paid to settle the claim
I understand that Mr C is unhappy with the amount Ageas has paid him to settle his claim. 
For the reasons I have set out above, I dont think that Ageas needs to pay Mr C for losses 
beyond 29 July 2020. If Mr C thinks that Ageass calculation of the claim for the period       
20 March to 29 July 2020 is incorrect that would need to be considered separately after 
being raised with Ageas.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I believe that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Ageas to pay 
Mr C £500 to compensate for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Ageas did not provide any further comments by the required date. However, Mr C did not 
agree and provided a detailed response. I have considered the entire response and have 
summarised what I consider to be the main points below. Mr C has also raised points 
regarding the service we have provided. Those are being dealt with separately and in this 
decision I am going to focus on the merits of Mr Cs complaint against Ageas. 
Mr C said:
Our service has acted in an Ultra Vires manner and denied him his correct rights to 
a fair and honest appraisal of facts. 
The principle of contra proferentem was at the heart of the FCA Business Interruption 
Insurance test case. Case law has drawn a distinction between exemption clauses 
and indemnity clauses; and as his complaint concerns an indemnity clause, the 
principle of contra proferentem applies. As I do not have the legal standing or 
experience to make the decision that I have about contra proferentem, my provisional 
decision is flawed.  
My provisional decision is contrived because I have said that, just because 
something can be read in two ways, it is not ambiguous. The definition of ambiguous 
is something that has more than one possible meaning and that therefore can cause 
confusion. Ageas has a responsibility to take the FCA business rule 6.1.5 into account and does 
not appear to have done so. 
Part 2 of the Unfair Contracts Act gives the FCA powers to act where there is an 
unfair contract or the actions relating to a contract are unfair. 
He initially claimed for the whole period commencing 20 March 2020. He was told 
that he would need to make a second claim for the period commencing 30 July 2020. 
Mr C disagreed with this as he considered it to be one claim. A second claim was 
opened and at that time Ageas indicated that it was going to pay the whole claim. 
However, in July 2021 Mr C was asked to provide further evidence of Covid-19 within 
his home. This was impossible to do given the time that had passed. 
That there could be a case of deliberate misrepresentation by Ageas to avoid paying 
the whole claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling regarding his complaint, but his comments have not 
persuaded me to depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. I will explain 
why. 
When reaching a decision on Mr Cs complaint, my role is to reach a decision based on what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. When doing so, I take 
account of, amongst other things, relevant laws. 
I understand that Mr C believes that as the wording of the clause could be read in different 
ways, it would be considered ambiguous. While I accept Mr Cs definition of ambiguous, I do 
not think a court would consider the clause in question to be ambiguous. Mr C has referred 
to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case and said that the principle of contra 
proferentem was at the heart of this. At paragraph 47 the court said:
There is no doubt or dispute about the principles of English law that apply in 
interpreting the policies. They were most recently authoritatively discussed by this 
court in Wood v Capita Insurance Services Ltd [2017] UKSC 24; [2017] AC 1173 
in the judgment of Lord Hodge and are set out in the judgment of the court below 
at paras 62-66. The core principle is that an insurance policy, like any other 
contract, must be interpreted objectively by asking what a reasonable person, 
with all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been available 
to the parties when they entered into the contract, would have understood the 
language of the contract to mean. Evidence about what the parties subjectively 
intended or understood the contract to mean is not relevant to the courts task. 
This involves considering the contract as a whole. I have considered Mr Cs complaint 
in line with the principles set out by the Supreme Court and, for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision, I remain of the view that a court would most likely decide that 
the clause required the occurrence of Covid-19 to have been at Mr Cs home. 
I have noted Mr Cs point regarding the FCAs powers regarding unfair contracts. 
However, it is not for me to comment on the actions of the FCA. My role is to consider 
the circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint and to reach a decision based on 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.Mr C said that Ageas does not appear to have taken FCA business rule 6.1.5 into 
account. To ensure I considered his view on this I asked Mr C to clarify which rule he 
was referring to, but Mr C replied to say that he didnt think it was appropriate to 
provide advice to our service on this point. In my view, I have made a decision based 
on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances, which includes 
taking into account relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards. 
I acknowledge Mr Cs points that he initially made a claim commencing 20 March 2020 
and he believes that there should only be one claim, and that Ageas indicated that it 
would pay for the whole period if he made a second claim. Ive taken that into 
consideration when deciding on a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience. However, I have set out in my provisional decision why I 
dont think Ageas needed to treat the claim as one, as well as why it does not need to 
pay him for the entirety of the period he is claiming for. Mr Cs comments in response 
to my provisional decision have not persuaded me to change my mind. 
I understand that Mr C considers that there could be a deliberate misrepresentation by 
Ageas to avoid paying the whole claim. In this decision, I have set out what I think Ageas 
has done wrong, as well as where I think it acted fairly and reasonably. I have not seen 
evidence to persuade me that there was a deliberate misrepresentation on Ageass behalf to 
avoid paying the whole claim.
I have considered that it might have been difficult for Mr C to provide evidence of an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at his home given the time that had passed by the time he was 
asked for further evidence. But I think it is reasonable for Ageas to require evidence to 
support that Covid-19 most likely occurred. I havent seen anything to support that 
there was a further occurrence of Covid-19 within Mr Cs home so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Ageas to decline his further claim.
Putting things right
I remain of the view that the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Cs complaint is for Ageas to 
pay Mr C £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part and require Ageas Insurance Limited to do as set out in the 
Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman