DRN-2804041
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result 
our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr S responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage or missing accessories if 
the car wasnt returned in the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
The BVRLA guidance explains that if conditions dont allow an inspection a 
subsequent one may be completed. I can see that it was dark by the time the first 
inspection commenced so I dont think it was unusual or unfair for MBFS to complete 
a further inspection in the daylight.
 
Mr S accepts much of the cosmetic damage, but he doesnt accept that there was 
damage to the bumper when the car was driven away. Ive considered the 
photographs of the damage that is provided in the inspection report. I cant see any 
dent to the bumper or any paint damage where the ruler is pointing. So, I dont think 
a charge is reasonable. I cant see the damage in the video either, although I accept 
the video is a quick review of the car and doesnt focus on the bumper. And, even if 
Im wrong about that, I accept the investigators view that damage to the bumper 
could have been identified during the first limited inspection and this suggests it 
wasnt present when the car left Mr Ss custody.
I also think its reasonable to suggest the absence of the compressor and sealant 
should have been identified during the first inspection. The inspector did start to 
appraise the car and I think the lack of light would not have impeded his ability to 
identify if these items were missing. Had he done so Mr S would have been able to 
explain they were under the seat and hes been deprived of that opportunity. So, I 
dont think it was reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr S for the missing compressor or 
sealant.
Putting things right
MBFS should waive the charges theyve made for refurbishment to the rear bumper and for 
the missing compressor and sealant.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to waive the charges theyve made for refurbishment to the rear bumper 
and for the missing compressor and sealant.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman