DRN-2286420
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc didnt claim a direct debit to cover his credit card 
payment. 
What happened
On 18 February 2020 Santander sent Mr S a credit card statement that said he needed to 
make a minimum payment of £76.84 by 15 March 2020. On 20 February 2020 Mr S set up a 
direct debit to clear his monthly credit card balance in full. Mr S has told us he expected the 
next monthly payment due on 15 March 2020 to be collected by direct debit. 
On 29 February 2020 Santander wrote to Mr S to confirm his direct debit had been set up. 
Santanders letter said:
Youll get advance notice before a Direct Debit is taken from your current account on your 
credit card statement. This will tell you the amount and date your account will be debited. 
Please make sure you pay by another payment method until confirmation that your Direct 
Debit has been set up appears on your statement.
No payment was made by the 15 March 2020 and Mr S contacted Santander on 19 March 
2020 to ask about his payment. Mr S says he was given conflicting information about how 
long it takes to set up a direct debit. 
Mr S complained and Santander responded on 27 March 2020. Santander didnt uphold Mr 
S complaint and said it would start to collect the direct debit payments once it had been 
noted on his statement. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Santander had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S 
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr S thought his next payment would be collected by direct debit after he 
set up the arrangement online on 20 February 2020. But I can only uphold a complaint if I 
find that a business has made an error or treated a customer unfairly. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mr S, but I havent found anything to show Santander got things wrong or treated 
him unfairly. 
Mr S has pointed to the information he found regarding direct debits and how long it should 
take a business to set one up. Here, Mr S entered the direct debit details onto the system on 
20 February 2020 and Santander wrote to him to confirm it had been set up on 29 February 
2020. Im satisfied the direct debit was set up in a reasonable amount of time and that 
Santander confirmed that to Mr S. 
In addition, Santander has sent us a screen print that shows the information given to 
customers who have added a direct debit instruction. Santanders online system said Please 
note your Direct Debit will not take effect until the date is confirmed in your credit card 
statement. 
Santanders online system and confirmation letter dated 29 February 2020 contain clear 
information about new direct debits. Ive quoted Santanders letter above, including the bold 
part that was shown on the original. Santander specifically advises that a direct debit will be 
taken once confirmation is given on a statement and that card holders should continue to 
pay by another method until then. I note Mr S had been making manual payments until this 
point. 
Ultimately, Mr S payment due on 15 March 2020 wasnt received by Santander. I havent 
found that Santander misled Mr S or provided unclear instructions on how a new direct debit 
works. As Im satisfied Santander didnt make an error and that it has dealt with Mr S 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman