DRN-4062419
The complaint
Mr A and Mr A complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed their joint account without giving 
them notice of its intention to do so. 
What happened
Mr A and Mr A held a joint account with HSBC. It had had a nil balance since the end of 
August 2019. On 30 August 2020 the bank wrote to them to say that it appeared that the 
account was dormant and that it was considering closing it. It would to so unless they started 
using it by 11 November 2020.
In October 2020 two small credits were made to the account. A small cash withdrawal was 
also made, leaving a modest credit balance. That was withdrawn the following month, 
leaving the account again with a zero balance. 
In June 2021 the bank wrote to the account holders again, in similar terms to the letter it had 
sent in August 2020. Over the following weeks, there were two credits paid to the account, 
followed by two matching withdrawals  again, leaving the account with a zero balance.  
On 7 October 2021 HSBC wrote to Mr A and Mr A to say that it would be closing the account 
with immediate effect. They complained that it had not given proper notice or reasons for its 
actions. HSBC said it had acted correctly and within the account terms. 
Mr A and Mr A referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered 
what had happened. He did not recommend that the complaint be upheld, and Mr A and Mr 
A asked that an ombudsman review it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service will not generally interfere with the legitimate exercise of a financial businesss 
commercial discretion. And it is primarily for a bank to decide whether it wishes to provide, or 
continue to provide, banking services to a customer. I have not seen any reason to make an 
exception to that general position in this case. I think HSBCs decision to close the account 
was a legitimate one. 
Banks do not have to provide a reason for closing an account, although they should not do 
so for reasons which are not legitimate  for example, by operating a discriminatory policy. I 
do not believe that was what the bank was doing here.  
I would usually expect a bank to give reasonable notice before closing an account. What is 
reasonable depends on the customers particular circumstances, but a notice period of 
around two months would give most personal customers an opportunity to make alternative 
banking arrangements.
In some cases, however, a shorter notice period  or no notice at all  might be reasonable. 
In this case, I note that HSBC had already written to Mr and Mr A on two occasions, 
indicating that it would close the account if they did not start using it. An account which 
remains inactive for a long period is a potential security risk, and banks routinely contact 
customers whose accounts have not been used to check that they are still required. 
Mr A and Mr A reacted to the letters of August 2020 and June 2021 by making modest 
payments and withdrawals. I do not believe however that it can properly be said that they 
were using the account. They were doing the minimum necessary to keep it open. Between 
the end of August 2019 and the closure of the account in October 2021 (some 25 months), a 
total of £50 was paid in; the same amount was withdrawn. The account had a zero balance 
for nearly all that time. 
In the circumstances, and given the nature of the account, I dont believe that it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to close the account without notice. 
Even if I were to take a different view on that, however, it does not seem to me that the 
banks decision caused any financial loss or material inconvenience to Mr A and Mr A. As I 
have said, they dont appear to have been using the account in the normal meaning of that 
word. The only transactions for more than two years had been to keep the account open with 
a zero balance.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint brought by Mr A 
and Mr A and I do not require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman