DRN-3446735
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander UK Plc didnt return their title deeds or remove its 
charge when they repaid their mortgage. Mr C said he was seeking compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, legal fees and other costs and the loss of a personal historic 
document. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C repaid their mortgage with Santander in 2016. Mr C says he asked for the title 
deeds to be returned but they didnt arrive. In 2021 he found out that Santanders charge 
was still on the property title and that hed have to arrange for this to be removed. Mr C says 
they werent previously made aware of this. Hes concerned that his credit file has been 
impacted.
Santander said the title deeds were lost in transit, either between its storage facilities or 
when posted to Mr and Mrs C. It said due to where the property is located, Mr and Mrs C 
would have to pay a locally qualified solicitor to remove the charge from the land register. 
Santander offered £100 for not giving Mr and Mrs C correct information in 2016. 
Our investigator said the title to Mr and Mrs Cs property was registered. The land registry 
system where the property is located meant Mr and Mrs C had to instruct a solicitor to 
remove the charge from the land registry. Our investigator said there was no evidence that 
Mr and Mrs Cs credit files were impacted or that they had financial loss. He said the 
compensation offered by Santander was fair.
Mr C said he now accepts that he had to pay for the removal of the charge. Mr C said his 
complaint wasnt about the cost of removing the charge, it was about not being told for five 
years that he had to do this and that the original title deeds were lost. Mr C said it had taken 
five months to remove the charge which could have impacted on a sale of the property. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that the original title deeds to Mr and Mrs Cs property werent returned safely to 
them. Santander says in 2014 its process was to return title deeds to customers whose 
property titles were held electronically at the land registry. Its unfortunate that Santander 
cant now tell Mr and Mrs C with any certainty whether it posted the title deeds to them or if 
they were lost between Santanders own storage facilities. I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs 
frustration about this. I can also appreciate their frustration that Santander didnt tell them in 
2016, when they repaid their mortgage, that it no longer had their original title deeds.
The property is registered, meaning the title is recorded at the land registry. The original title 
deeds arent needed to prove ownership or for a sale or mortgage of the property. However, 
the original title deeds might be of interest and sentimental value to the property owner. 
Mr C says they accept that they will have to arrange and pay for the charge to be removed 
from the property title. He says their complaint is that they should have been told this earlier. 
Santander accepts that it didnt tell Mr and Mrs C in 2016 that they would have to arrange for 
the charge to be removed.
While delays with removing the charge could have affected a sale of the property, Mr C 
hasnt said that this actually happened. In fact, his complaint letter to Santander said he was 
thinking of passing the property down to successive generations of his family.
Mr C said he was concerned that the charge could make it appear they have an outstanding 
debt secured on the property. Mr and Mrs Cs credit files should show that the mortgage loan 
was repaid in full, and they havent said this isnt the case. Without evidence that a lender 
declined credit or offered credit at a less favourable rate due to the charge, I dont think I can 
fairly find that Mr and Mrs C suffered a financial loss.
Mr and Mrs C would have always needed to incur the cost and inconvenience of instructing 
a solicitor to remove the charge, even if Santander had told them this in 2016.
Mr C says the original deeds were an important historical source, and potentially a family 
heirloom. Mr C says he asked for the deeds to be returned in 2016 and was told theyd arrive 
in a few weeks. Santander should have told him that it no longer had the original title deeds. 
However, Mr C didnt follow up his request with Santander until 2021, five years later. Mr C 
didnt explain why they didnt chase Santander for the title deeds sooner. If the original title 
deeds were of significant value to Mr and Mrs C, Id have expected them to question what 
had happened sooner than this. 
Santander should have told Mr and Mrs C in 2016 that theyd need to arrange for the charge 
to be removed. Mr and Mrs C havent provided evidence of a financial loss as a result of 
Santanders error. But I think finding out some years after they repaid the mortgage that they 
needed to remove the charge caused Mr and Mrs C unnecessary worry and inconvenience 
and I think its right that Santander pays compensation for this. When considering what 
compensation is fair, I must take into account that Mr and Mrs C did need to remove the 
charge themselves, either in 2016 or later. For most of the time since 2016 theyve been 
unaware of the charge (and so were not worried about it). And as Mr and Mrs C havent tried 
to sell or re-mortgage the property it hasnt caused them any problems. 
Having taken all this into account, I think compensation of £100 for the additional upset and 
inconvenience caused by not giving Mr and Mrs C correct information in 2016 is fair and 
reasonable. Mr C says they didnt cash the cheque sent by Santander. Most likely, this has 
now expired. If so, and Mr and Mrs C accept my decision, Id ask Santander to send a new 
cheque or arrange payment by other means.
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £100 to Mr and Mrs C, as it offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman