DRN-4276471
The complaint
Ms F complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc trading as EVERYPAW rejected a claim on her 
pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F acquired a pet dog on 18 March 2022. She took out pet insurance with Pinnacle, with 
the policy starting on 27 March.
A few months later Ms F sought advice regarding some behavioural issues with her dog. 
She was referred to a behaviour therapist who provided a report in September 2022 setting 
out the behavioural issues and a treatment plan.
Ms F made a claim for the treatment costs but Pinnacle rejected this on the basis her pets 
clinical notes recorded behavioural concerns and a recommendation for training on 11 
February 2022. Pinnacle said this meant the symptoms were first noted before the policy 
started and the policy didnt cover claims in these circumstances.
Ms F complained about the decision. In response, Pinnacle said the clinical notes showed 
the condition began before the policy started and so the claim had been declined correctly. 
The response noted that Ms Fs vet intended to provide further information showing the two 
instances of behavioural issues were not related and said it would be happy to review this.
The vet emailed Ms F saying he had contacted Pinnacle and told them he didnt believe 
what was recorded in the clinical notes should lead it to decline the claim. Pinnacle said it 
had reviewed the vets comments but it made no change to the decision.
Ms F referred her complaint to this service but our investigator didnt think It should be 
upheld. He said Ms Fs dog had shown symptoms of a behavioural condition before she took 
out the policy, so it was fair for Pinnacle to decline the claim.
Ms F disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. She made a number of points, 
including:
When she adopted her dog, she was told about two conditions  a hernia, and 
separation anxiety. She didnt need to seek any treatment to deal with the separation 
anxiety.
She became aware of the condition resource guarding in June 2022. This is a 
different condition. A further diagnosis of frustration intolerance was given in 
September 2022.
The behaviourist confirmed that the resource guarding/frustration intolerance 
condition and symptoms were unrelated to the behavioural condition of separation 
anxiety.
Both the vet and the behavioural therapist have confirmed that the conditions being 
treated are not the same as the condition that was present before the policy started.
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint. I set out my 
reasons as follows:
Industry rules require insurers to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably 
reject a claim. Ive taken this into account when considering how Pinnacle has applied the 
policy terms in this case.
Ms Fs policy doesnt provide cover for pre-existing conditions. This is very common in pet 
insurance; insurers generally dont want to cover something thats already happened, since 
the aim of insurance is generally to protect against the risk of something happening in the 
future. The policy terms exclude cover for treatment costs relating to
Any condition or symptom, or anything related to it, that you were aware of or has been 
noted and/or investigated by a vet, before this policy started.
A condition is defined as any illness or accidental injury whether or not it results in a 
diagnosis and a related condition means a number of illnesses or symptoms which are (a) 
diagnosed as one illness or accidental injury; or
(b) caused by, relate to, or result from another illness, accidental injury or symptom.
Symptom(s) means a change in your pets normal healthy state, its bodily functions or 
behaviour.
So the key point is whether the treatment costs Ms F claimed for related to something that 
had already started before she took out her policy, or was caused by or related to something 
that had already started.
Pinnacle said the symptoms were first noted before the policy started. The claim is for 
treatment relating to resource guarding/frustration intolerance. The clinical note Pinnacle 
has relied on refer to there being potentially some behavioural concerns. This may be a 
behavioural issue but that doesnt necessarily mean its the same issue. If the pet was 
showing symptoms relating to separation anxiety in February 2022 and the issues noted 
after the policy started were different, unrelated conditions, then they are neither the same 
nor related conditions.
I havent seen the letter Ms Fs vet sent to Pinnacle but his email to her says he told 
Pinnacle in no uncertain terms that his notes should not be used to decline the claim. Im 
satisfied his view is that the issues were different. The evidence is limited but indicates 
Ms Fs dog was treated for conditions identified from June 2022 onwards.
It's not enough simply to say there were behavioural issues before and after the policy 
started; the condition being treated needs to be either the same condition or one thats 
related to or caused by the condition that had been present before  there needs to be a 
connection between them. Pinnacle itself accepted this in a letter to Ms F when it said I can 
confirm that should [] suffer any further behavioural problems associated with those noted 
prior to the policy start date will not be covered. If however, there are unrelated issues that 
develop we may be able to consider covering the treatment.
Theres limited medical evidence but the onus is on Pinnacle to show the exclusion applies. 
It hasnt provided veterinary evidence or expert advice that shows the conditions were 
related. Even if the symptoms of the different conditions were similar, that would not be 
enough for the exclusion to apply; it wouldnt be fair to treat different, unrelated conditions as 
being the same.
For these reasons I dont think Pinnacle has shown the exclusion applies.
Replies to the provisional decisionPinnacle replied to say it doesnt agree with the provisional decision. It has provided detailed 
comments from its veterinary adviser, which include:
Behavioural concerns were noted in the history notes in February 2022  so were 
clearly mentioned by the owner before her dog was examined.
The type of behavioural concern isnt noted, but with resource guarding mentioned in 
June and no mention of separation anxiety, its fair to presume it was related to 
aggression and resource guarding. There is no mention of separation anxiety in the 
clinical history and this is the factual evidence that should be considered, not what 
the owner says.   
Even if the dog was suffering with separation anxiety or some sort of behavioural 
concern as in the history notes in February 2022, there will have been progression of 
this to frustration, aggression and a diagnosis of frustration anxiety rather than it 
being a truly separate behavioural condition.
The resource guarding did not start in June 2022  the dog was first seen on 6 June 
and it wouldnt have started within six days. Advice was sought somewhere between 
February and June and its more likely to have been closer to February. The first 
mention of a behavioural issue was in February so it would be fair to backdate the 
comment of resource guarding to then.
Ms F points out that she was never a client of the vet that saw her dog in February 2022 and 
she hadnt previously seen their notes, which were made at a time when the previous owner 
took the dog there. 
She also says the previous vet confirmed in their opinion the frustration intolerance/resource 
guarding wasnt related to symptoms noted in clinical notes. So both the behaviourist and 
the previous treating vet said frustration intolerance/resource guarding is unrelated to the 
symptoms noted in February 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained that it's not enough simply to say there were 
behavioural issues before and after the policy started; the condition being treated needs to 
be either the same condition or one thats related to or caused by the condition that had 
been present before. The onus is on Pinnacle to show this.
Pinnacle has now provided some comments from a veterinary adviser. So Ive considered 
whether this should lead me to reach a different conclusion.
The information now provided doesnt change the fact that Pinnacle didnt have any such 
comments at the time it made its decision. That was made on the basis of the clinical notes 
from February 2022. I dont consider those notes were enough to support its decision to 
decline the claim.
The comments Pinnacle has now provided do give an explanation as to why the issues seen 
before and after the policy was taken out might be considered to be the same, or at least, to 
have the same underlying cause. The adviser points out that the clinical notes dont refer to 
separation anxiety, and says the resource guarding wouldnt have started in June 2022. But 
Ms F has explained that she first saw signs of this while on holiday in late May and went to 
the vet in early June. And though the adviser refers to comments made by the owner in 
February 2022, that was the previous owner  not Ms F.
On the one hand, I have very clear comments from the behaviourist and the original vet that the issues seen before the policy started were not the same as those seen later. These are 
persuasive, coming from the professionals who saw the animal. Ms F wasnt a client of the 
original vet, who would have nothing to gain from supporting her claim. She has been 
consistent in her testimony and is supported by those who saw her pet. At the point when 
she took out the policy she was only aware of an issue with separation anxiety, for which she 
didnt need to seek any treatment.
On the other hand are the comments from Pinnacles adviser. While these are detailed, they 
were made a long time after the event, from a review of records without having seen the 
dog, and contain certain assumptions. 
I cant be certain whether the different conditions were linked. While its possible they were, I 
need to decide on the balance of probabilities what I think is more likely. On balance, the 
comments Pinnacle has now provided are not enough to persuade me its decision was 
correct, taking into account the conflicting evidence from the other professionals..
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Pinnacle Insurance Plc trading as EVERYPAW to 
disregard the exclusion for pre-existing conditions and deal with the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman