DRN-1840118
The complaint
Mrs A says that the Cooperative Bank trading as the Britannia Building Society closed her 
fixed term ISA shortly before it was due to mature with the result that she lost 180 days 
interest. She's now like the bank to refund this.
What happened
Mrs A had a fixed term ISA with Britannia that was due to mature on 30 November 2019. 
Having compared various interest rates available, Mrs A decided to move her ISA to another 
provider.  
The other provider provided the transfer form. The form offered three options: the first 
was no notice required. The next two related to ISAs where notice were required and 
read as follows:
"2. wait for the full notice period end or wait until the maturity date (whichever is relevant) 
before going ahead with this transfer 
or
3. carry out the transfer as soon as possible -I will accept any loss of interest or exit charges 
that may be applied in accordance with the terms and conditions applying."
Mrs A ticked the box next to option 3 and returned the signed form. This was sent to 
Britannia on 14 November 2019 and actioned the next day. As the ISA was closed before 
the maturity date, Britannia imposed a penalty of 180 days interest, amounting to £371. 
Mrs A says she intended the transfer to take place as soon as possible after maturity. She 
feels that Britannia should have realised the transfer was taking place so close to the 
maturity date and contacted her to check and in not doing so, it failed in its duty of care to 
her. She says the other provider agreed the form was confusing and refunded her half of the 
lost interest but shed now like Britannia to remove the penalty and refund the balance.
Britannia said the transfer request form it received on 14 November asked for an immediate 
transfer of funds and it had followed that request. It didn't agree it had made a mistake and 
said the penalty was in line with the terms and conditions for the ISA  which Mrs A had 
agreed to when she took it out.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. Although she understood why Mrs A felt 
upset, she didn't think it was reasonable to expect Britannia to monitor and check all  the 
instructions it received. The transfer form signed by Mrs A had asked for an immediate 
transfer and this is what Britannia had done, so she couldn't say it had made a mistake. 
Mrs A didn't accept the recommendation and said Britannia should have queried why she'd 
have requested a  transfer so close to the maturity date. She said when Britannia wrote to 
her in November 2019  about her ISA, the option form she'd returned made clear any 
transfer was to take place after maturity. She queried why it hadn't taken this into account and felt this was in line with a number of careless mistakes it had made in the setting up and 
management of her account. She asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Mrs A wil be disappointed by my decision but I won't be upholding this 
complaint as I'll now explain.
When Mrs A decided to transfer her ISA it was for the new provider to sent out the transfer 
request form and then to forward that on to Britannia  I've seen the transfer form and I'd 
agree that its not as clear as it could have been as there are three options but only two 
boxes. Having said that Mrs A has clearly ticked the box by the option that states 
3. carry out the transfer as soon as possible -I will accept any loss of interest or exit charges 
that may be applied in accordance with the terms and conditions applying.
I think any person reading that form would take that to mean that the transfer was to be 
carried out immediately and that is what Britannia did. I accept that isn't what Mrs A intended 
but looking at the form I can't see that Britannia could have known this. 
I've seen that in her complaint letter to Britannia Mrs A acknowledges that she ticked the box 
for the withdrawal to proceed immediately but that "I did not expect it to be closed early 
before maturity date but I did want the ISA transferred immediately when maturity had been 
achieved".
I accept that Mrs A  intended that her ISA would be transferred once it had matured but 
unfortunately that wasn't what was said on the form. And in order for me to direct Britannia to 
make an award to Mrs A, I'd need to be satisfied that it had done something wrong. In this 
case for the reasons set out above I can't reasonably say that it has.
I've seen Mrs A feels Britannia should have realised the transfer was so close to the maturity 
date and queried it with her. However it would be impracticable to expect it to monitor all the 
instructions it receives and in this case the form was correctly completed and signed and 
there was nothing to indicate it was not what Mrs A wanted.
I've seen Mrs A says she sent back an option form to Britannia in November 2019, that set 
out her preferences and should have been taken into account. I can't agree. That form was 
on the basis that Mrs A was going to make an internal transfer to another Britannia ISA. In 
the end Mrs A decided to move to another provider and it was that transfer form, signed and 
authorised  by Mrs A, that Britannia was required to rely on. 
Finally, I note what Mrs A says about the other provider refunding 50% of the interest 
deducted but I should explain that in this decision I am only looking at the actions of 
Britannia. I realise this isn't the decision Mrs A was hoping for but ,for the reasons set out 
above, I don't agree that it has made a mistake so I can't reasonably ask it to do anything 
more.
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman