DRN-2928809
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) 
under his HomeCare policy following multiple visits by its engineers to rectify a problem with 
his heating and hot water system.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons:
It appears from BGs records of its visits to Mr Hs property that a new boiler was 
installed in or around June 2019. Between that date and February 2021, 13 visits 
were made by BG engineers to deal with problems with his central heating system. 
Many of these, dating back to shortly after the installation, were to address problems 
with the pressure. The problem appears to have worsened in January 2021, and five 
visits were required between 27 January and 11 February 2021. The problem was 
eventually traced to a leak in the cylinder return. 
BG has acknowledged that Mr and Mrs H, who are elderly, were without heating and 
hot water on a number of occasions and Mr H had to purchase electric heaters 
himself. BGs records show the following:
Customer was off supply for numerous days due to strike actions and was never 
offered fan heaters so had to go and purchase his own.. he is on the vulnerable 
list and we made no effort to supply fan heaters during the strike action days.
BG has reimbursed Mr H £200 for the cost of the heaters he had to buy. It has also 
paid him £150 as a goodwill gesture for failing to supply heaters and for the 
additional electricity usage.
However I dont consider that this adequately compensates Mr H for the 
inconvenience of having to arrange and accommodate multiple visits by BG 
engineers until the problem was eventually identified and rectified, and for his being 
without central heating and hot water on a number of occasions.
BG has explained in its response to our investigators view that access to the cylinder 
was restricted, and that had it not been, one less visit would have been required. I 
dont consider that one less visit would have significantly reduced Mr Hs trouble and 
upset.
I agree with our investigator that a further £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset of being without central heating and hot water on a number of occasions and in 
having to accommodate multiple visits by BG engineers would be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr H a further £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman