DRN-3695658
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain about the increase to their private medical insurance premium. 
They also complain about difficulties in receiving documentation from AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited. 
For ease I will refer to all submissions about this complaint as being made by Mr D only.
What happened
Both parties are aware of what happened so Ill only summarise the background to this 
complaint here.
In 2022 Mr D complained that the cost of his private medical insurance policy had increased. 
He said thered been no renewal correspondence from AXA explaining the increase and that 
despite asking for that correspondence to be sent again it wasnt received. 
AXA resent the renewal information. It also explained the increase was largely due to Mr Ds 
claiming history in the previous policy year (which had impacted his no claims discount), 
advancing age, and improvements in medical technology. 
Unhappy with what had happened Mr D asked for Mrs D to be removed from the policy and 
explained it would be cheaper for her to seek insurance elsewhere. He referred the 
complaint to this service and told us he wanted AXAs premiums reviewed because they 
were too expensive. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened but didnt uphold the complaint. They 
thought AXA had calculated the premium increase correctly and had treated Mrs D and Mr D 
in the same way as another consumer with the same circumstances. They also said AXA 
had sent its correspondence to the correct address. 
Mr D disagreed and said using the policy for a small operation had gone on to quadruple his 
premium. He asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman because of that and so 
the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will not be upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
A number of factors can affect the cost of an insurance policy. It isnt uncommon to 
see costs increase each year, but an insurer should be able to demonstrate its 
treated a policy holder fairly and in the same way as other consumers with the same 
cover in similar circumstances. 
AXA told Mr D it couldnt share the detailed breakdown of its premium increase, 
because it considered those calculations to be commercially sensitive, but it did 
share that breakdown with this service. Though I dont think it would be right of me to 
share it either, I can reassure Mrs D and Mr D that Mr Ds claiming history and the 
impact of that on his no claims discount wasnt the sole reason for the premium 
increasing. 
Having looked at the breakdown AXA provided I am satisfied it correctly explained 
what had contributed to the increase  both when it spoke to Mr D about the matter 
and within its correspondence addressing the complaint about the increase too. 
The contributions to the increase were also in line with what the terms and conditions 
of the policy explained could be contributory factors too:
Why does my subscription increase every year?
There are a number of reasons why the cost of your healthcare insurance could 
increase. We review subscriptions each year and make calculations based on a 
number of factors. Two of the more common reasons are because:
Your subscriptions will tend to rise as you get older. This is because, 
unfortunately, as we get older we all tend to suffer more health issues. 
The cost of medical treatment tends to rise too as new and better ways of 
diagnosing and treating diseases are developed. We regularly review our 
plans to keep them up to date and to include new tests and treatments where 
we can.
Please note that your subscription also includes Insurance Premium Tax and any 
other taxes relevant to your membership.
Despite Mr Ds strength of feeling I havent seen any information to demonstrate AXA 
either increased the premium or treated him or Mrs D unfairly. I appreciate Mr D may 
be disappointed by that, but I will not be directing AXA to review the premium which 
is what I understand he would like this service to do as a result of this complaint. 
Mr D didnt specifically challenge the investigators findings in relation to AXAs 
correspondence. However, for the avoidance of doubt I think the action AXA took in 
relation to this was appropriate. I say this because when Mr D told AXA information 
hadnt been received it; confirmed the contact details it held were correct, resent the 
items, and where appropriate to do so apologised for any previous difficulties Mr D 
had experienced in not receiving correspondence. So, I will not be making a direction 
in relation to this either. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman