DRN-4345975
The complaint
Mrs D complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs (Nat Wests) handling of a 
chargeback claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs D experienced, and is experiencing, but 
while I know it will disappoint her, I dont think Nat West have done anything wrong here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Nat West, its administered by Mastercard, 
and they set the rules. Nat West didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it 
good practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
The £15,000 that Mrs D disputed was temporarily credited to her account when Nat West 
raised the chargeback claim. They wrote to Mrs D to tell her that would be the case in 
August 2022. In that email they explained that if the merchant provided more information it 
could lead to the temporary refund being reversed. 
When the merchant disputed the chargeback Nat West wrote to Mrs D again and asked for 
more information. Mrs D has explained she didnt see that email as it went into her junk 
folder. But it wouldnt be fair to hold Nat West accountable for that. I think they had done all 
that was expected of them and, as they didnt receive any further information to counter the 
merchants suggestion the goods were received and were of satisfactory quality, I dont think 
they were unreasonable to reverse the temporary credit. 
Ultimately, I dont think Nat Wests management of Mrs Ds chargeback claim was 
unreasonable, and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman