DRN-2205463
The complaint
Mr B complains about the level of service provided by One Call Insurance Services Limited 
when he wanted to cancel his motor insurance policy. He wants further compensation for his 
trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mr B took out a policy through One Call, but he then couldnt access its online portal. He was 
told the policy hadnt been set up yet. So Mr B asked to cancel it and for his deposit to be 
refunded. One Call wanted to charge Mr B a fee for the cancellation, but this was waived 
when Mr B spoke to a manager. One Call still went ahead and set up the policy. It realised 
and corrected its error when Mr B called to see where his refund was. 
One Call was slow to return Mr Bs deposit and it apologised for this and offered him £30 
compensation, which was also slow being paid. Mr B was unhappy with this level of service, 
the time he had to spend complaining and his consequent loss of income. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought One Call 
had provided a poor level of service. But he thought its initial apology and offer of 
compensation was adequate for the trouble and upset caused by the delay in refunding the 
deposit. He thought One Call should apologise again for the late payment of the 
compensation. But he didnt think this, or the time Mr B spent complaining, warranted further 
compensation. 
Mr B replied that he thought One Calls level of service warranted further compensation. He 
said hed lost employment due to the time he spent raising his complaint and he thought he 
should be compensated for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B felt frustrated and stressed by the service he received from One 
Call. I was sorry to hear about this and about his recent loss. 
Mr B has raised several concerns about One Calls performance as a company. But were 
not the regulator and so I cant look at these general concerns. Mr B can raise these with the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, if he wishes. But I can look at Mr Bs complaint 
about the level of service he received from One Call. 
When a business makes a mistake, as One Call accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
From what I can see, One Call cancelled Mr Bs policy as he asked it to do. It took a prompt 
from Mr B for One Call to realise it hadnt acted on this and had in error set up the policy. But 
I think it acted quickly to then cancel the policy when the error was brought to its attention. 
One Call waived its policy set-up fee as a gesture of goodwill, which I think was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And it refunded Mr Bs deposit. So Mr B wasnt out of 
pocket because of this. And so I think One Call reasonably acted to restore Mr Bs position. 
But I can see that there was a delay in One Call refunding Mr Bs deposit and again in 
paying him the promised £30 compensation. Mr B thought that it should pay him £70 further 
compensation for this. But I disagree. I think this would be disproportionate to the impact the 
errors had on Mr B. 
I can see that Mr B spent time raising his complaints. But I think this inconvenience was 
adequately redressed by One Calls apology and £30 compensation. I think it was Mr Bs 
choice to bring his complaint to us. So I dont think One Call needs to pay him further 
compensation for this. 
Mr B said hed lost time when he could be working. But I cant see that One Calls errors led 
to him not being able to work. I think we can all expect some inconvenience in life. And I 
think One Calls offer of compensation is adequate for the frustration and stress it caused for 
Mr B as its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman