DRN-2872494
The complaint
Mr S has complained on behalf of Mrs S that Rentguard Limited made a mistake when 
setting up a commercial property insurance policy which led to her insurer treating it as 
though it had never been in place and declining her claim. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr S took out insurance on behalf of Mrs S for the property in question through 
Rentguard. The policy renewed in 2018 and 2019 on the same basis. In May 2020 the 
property was badly damaged by a fire. Mrs S made a claim to her insurer.
After investigating the claim the insurer said it would void the policy as it wasnt aware the 
property was an amusement arcade as opposed to an office with flats above. In a different 
part of the policy documentation the property was described as being used to repair 
electrical appliances. The insurer said if it had known that the property was an amusement 
arcade, it wouldnt have insured the property from the start.
Mr S complained to Rentguard about the way the policy had been set up. Rentguard said it 
assumed that was the information theyd been given by him as they couldnt find anything 
which suggested otherwise. They said theyd emailed Mr S three separate quote summaries 
showing this information before the policy had been taken out. They also said there was a 
14 day cooling off period after the policy had started to allow Mr S to check the policy was 
suitable for Mrs Ss needs. 
Mr S brought Mrs Ss complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt 
think there was enough information to say that Rentguard had made a mistake when setting 
the policy up.
As Mr S on behalf of Mrs S didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S had four other commercial insurance policies. She authorised Rentguard to deal with 
Mr S on the renewal of the policies. 
Before I can uphold a complaint against a broker, I have to be satisfied that an error most 
likely occurred.
Rentguard has told us the policy was taken out over the phone and it doesnt have a record 
of the call. So I cant be sure what was said by Mr S to Rentguard. While I know the insurer 
was told the commercial part of the property was used as offices and/or an electrical 
appliances workshop, I cant be sure whether this resulted from a failure or error on 
Rentguards part.
As I dont know what was said in the phone call, I need to consider what Rentguard sent to 
Mr S so he could check the information before it was sent to the insurer. They sent Mr S a 
quote summary to check, which said: This quote summary is produced to replace the need 
for a Proposal Form. This is an important document which you are advised to read and 
agree to. If you do not understand any section of this document, please contact us on 
[telephone number].
It also said Mr S should let them know if any details were incorrect. It went on to warn that:
Failure to do so may mean that your insurance policy is not valid or that all or part of your 
claim(s) will not be paid.
The details included the following statement:
Building Type: Office with flats above
I think that regardless of what was said in the initial phone call, Rentguard gave Mr S the 
opportunity to correct any mistakes, which Mr S didnt do. So Im not persuaded Rentguard 
did anything wrong. 
Ultimately, having been given a chance to check the contract details, Mr S sealed the deal 
for insurance provision by paying for the cover. The passing of the money signified that he 
was satisfied with the detail of that contract. I dont think Rentguard can fairly be blamed 
when Mr S didnt check what that detail was. Overall, Im not convinced that Rentguard is at 
fault for the way Mrs Ss policy was set up.
Mr S has pointed out other mistakes in Mrs Ss policies. Again its not clear who is liable for 
the errors. Because I think Mr S should have checked the details in the policy, Im not 
persuaded this means Rentguard probably made a mistake when setting up the policy for 
the amusement arcade. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman