DRN-1496446
 
The complaint
Miss A complains that a car supplied to her by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) was misrepresented to her. She wants VWFS to compensate her for this. 
What happened
In 2015 Miss A entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a new car.  Part way 
through the agreement Miss A found out that the car had software installed in it which VWFS 
hadnt told her about before supplying the car. According to VWFS the software operated to 
reduce the Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) emissions of the car during test conditions.
Miss A complained to VWFS about this software. She suggested the presence of the 
software in the car meant VWFS had given her incorrect information about the car and in 
particular its environmental benefits. VWFS said that it was in the process of developing a 
technical measure to deal with this situation. It said it would let her know when it was ready.
Miss A joined a group of other customers in a class action about the issue. That court case 
is still in progress according to Miss A. Meanwhile for some years she apparently took no 
further action against VWFS in relation to this complaint. We are able to look at this 
complaint though because VWFS gave us its consent to do so.
VWFS didnt agree that there had been a misrepresentation. Rather, as far as it was aware, 
Miss A had never been told anything about NOx emissions before she had gone ahead with 
the contract. And it didnt agree that the software in the car meant that anything that Miss A 
might have been told about the cars environmental credentials or performance was 
incorrect. Since it didnt think it was in the wrong, it wasnt prepared to agree to the solution 
she wanted. So Miss A complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss As complaint should be upheld. In summary, 
he agreed that as the supplier of the finance and the car, VWFS could fairly and reasonably 
be held responsible if the car had been misrepresented to her. But he didnt agree that it had 
been.
He hadnt been provided with evidence that NOx emissions were something that was 
discussed, or that Miss A specifically relied on, when she acquired the car. So he thought it 
was unlikely the car was misrepresented to Miss A when she first acquired it.
He said he hadnt seen anything to suggest there was a specific fault or failure of 
performance of the car as a result of the emissions issue, and he understood the car had 
been operating normally, and had been roadworthy with no impact on its performance.
VWFS had told Miss A that a technical solution for affected vehicles was being developed, 
which would be implemented without cost to Miss A once it had been tested and approved 
by the relevant regulators. The intention was that this wouldnt affect the performance of the 
car. He wasnt aware if this work had yet been carried out on Miss As car.VWFS accepted our investigators conclusions. Miss A didnt. In summary, she said she had 
wanted the car for its green credentials and for the road tax banding. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induced a party to enter into a contract 
and led to them making a loss. To uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that a 
relevant misrepresentation was made to Miss A either by VWFS or by someone, such as the 
supplying dealer, acting on its behalf.
If so, I think, it would be fair and reasonable to hold VWFS responsible for it. So Ive 
considered what most likely happened before Miss A and VWFS made their contract.
Miss A tells us she wanted the car for its green credentials. However, I dont think that 
means its likely she had discussions with the dealership about NOx emissions before she 
went ahead with the contract. I say this because most people outside of the car industry had 
never heard of NOx emissions in this context before this whole issue came to light.
VWFS says nothing was mentioned about NOx emissions in the marketing literature that 
was available for customers at the time. Ive not seen anything that contradicts this. Miss A 
hasnt told us she did discuss NOx emissions with the dealership. So I find it unlikely that 
NOx emissions were ever discussed with her at the time.
VWFS says that other information given to Miss A before she acquired the car was accurate 
and is unaffected by the NOx issue. This includes information on the cars performance, fuel 
economy, and Carbon Dioxide emissions (which VWFS says was the only information on 
emission levels included in the sales literature).
I havent seen anything which suggests this is incorrect. So I cant see how any information 
she had about the cars green credentials, and its impact in real world driving conditions, 
was incorrect.
I havent seen any evidence that what Miss A was told about the road tax status of the car 
was incorrect at the time she was told it. Nor have I seen anything that leads me to believe 
that the road tax status of the car has changed since it came to light that the car had the 
software inside it. 
For all these reasons, I cant fairly and reasonably agree that its likely the car was 
misrepresented to Miss A.
Miss A tells us she is going to continue with the court action. My role as an ombudsman is to 
consider the individual complaint and decide whether something has gone wrong. But a 
court may take a different view of the situation. Should Miss A not accept my final decision, 
then any rights she may have to take action in the courts against VWFS in relation to the 
issues she has raised in this complaint are unaffected.
I know Miss A has raised another complaint with us in relation how VWFS behaved when 
she fell behind on her repayments to it. That is a separate complaint to this one. I make no 
findings about it in this decision. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint, and make no order against 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman