DRN-3024029
The complaint
Mr M complains because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a cancellation claim 
under his travel insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr M holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his bank account. The policy is provided
by UKI.
Mr M paid a non-refundable deposit for accommodation in a destination which Ill call C in
December 2019. Mr M was due to travel to C on 22 August 2020.
Mr Ms flight provider subsequently cancelled his flights to C. Mr M says he therefore
unavoidably had to cancel his trip. On 14 July 2020, Mr Ms accommodation provider sent
him an email (a copy of which Ive attached) to say that his reservation was cancelled, and
no refund would be issued. On 10 August 2020, Mr M made a claim with UKI for the
accommodation deposit which hed lost.
UKI said Mr Ms claim wasnt covered as the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)
werent advising against travel to C when his accommodation reservation was cancelled.
UKI said the situation Mr M found himself in would be classed as either him not wanting to
travel, or as a failure of the tour operator  neither of which were covered under his policy.
Unhappy, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what had
happened but didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M didnt agree with our investigators opinion,
so the complaint was passed to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr Ms complaint in August 2021. In it, I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say UKI will pay for certain costs if the
policyholder unavoidably needs to cancel their trip for a number of listed, insured reasons.
One of these is;
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but
essential travel to your intended destination, providing the advice came into force
after you opened your Black account or booked your trip (whichever was the later)
and was in the 28 days before your departure on your trip.
Mr M has made several comments about when and why he cancelled his holiday. Based on
the email from his accommodation provider dated 14 July 2020, I think its likely that Mr M
had cancelled his accommodation at this point. This was more than 28 days before Mr Ms
departure date, and C was exempt from FCO advice against all but essential international
travel at that time.
I think Mr M cancelled his accommodation because his flight provider cancelled his flights 
and not because FCO advice changed in the 28 days before his intended departure date.
While I can understand why Mr M took the action he did, cancelling a holiday because flights
have been cancelled by the flight provider isnt a listed, insured event under this policy. This
means I dont think Mr Ms cancellation claim is covered under the terms and conditions of
his policy.
However, Ive gone on to think about whether it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to
accept Mr Ms claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions.
Based on the specific circumstances of this case, I think it would.
Ive thought about what happened in the days leading up to the date of Mr Ms planned trip.
The FCO removed C from the exemption list on 20 August 2020. This means the FCO was
advising against all but essential travel to Mr Ms destination within 28 days of his intended
departure date on 22 August 2020.
Although Mr M cancelled his accommodation before FCO advice changed, I dont think this
made any material difference to UKIs exposure to a claim in this case. If Mr M had booked a
package holiday or if he was claiming for the costs of a cancelled flight, then he may have
had the legal right to a refund under EU legislation so its likely Id have reached a different
provisional outcome. But Mr M didnt book a package holiday and the only costs hes
claiming for were paid directly to the accommodation provider. The accommodation provider
has no legal obligation that Im aware of to give Mr M a refund and Mr M has evidenced that
the accommodation provider hasnt given him any refund.
If Mr M had waited to cancel his accommodation booking until FCO advice changed on 20
August 2020 then I think hed have had a valid claim under his policy which UKI is likely to
have paid  and I dont think the fact that Mr M cancelled the accommodation before this
date has unfairly disadvantaged UKI.
UKI has said Mr Ms claim isnt covered because its a failure of the tour operator. However,
Section A (Cancelling your trip) of Mr Ms policy doesnt have a specific exclusion relating to
claims where the flight is cancelled by the operator. Section B (Delayed or missed departure)
of Mr Ms policy does have such a specific exclusion but I dont think its fair or reasonable
for UKI to decline a claim under Section A based on a policy exclusion set out under a
different section of cover. Section A of the policy does say that no cover is provided for any
claim made as a result of a transport operator refusing to transport someone because they
consider that person isnt fit to travel. But this isnt what happened here. So, I dont think its
fair or reasonable for UKI say that Mr Ms claim isnt covered because it arose from a failure
of the tour operator.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think Mr Ms claim arose from a disinclination to travel
either. As Ive mentioned above, Im satisfied Mr Ms claim was made because his flights
were cancelled, and he foresaw difficulties in getting to C.
So, overall, I currently think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to treat Mr Ms claim as
covered under the cancellation section of his policy.
I also currently think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to pay Mr M compensation for
the impact its decision to decline his claim had on him. UKIs complaint file acknowledges
that Mr Ms flights and accommodation were booked separately, and I think it would have
been helpful if UKI had given more detailed thought to the circumstances and timeline in this
case before repeatedly declining the claim. Im satisfied that Mr M suffered distress,
frustration and inconvenience as a result of UKI unfairly declining his claim, as well as a
result of what I think were UKIs poor communications with Mr M about his claim and the
issues which Mr M says he experienced with UKIs online claims portal.So, my provisional decision was that UKI should pay Mr Ms claim, plus interest as well as 
£100 compensation. 
Mr M responded to say he was happy with the provisional decision and had nothing further 
to add. UKI said it accepted that it should pay Mr Ms claim but didnt think it should pay 
interest or compensation as, technically speaking, its decision to turn down the claim wasnt 
wrong.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what UKI has said in response to my provisional decision. I 
understand Mr Ms claim wasnt covered under a strict interpretation of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, as UKI will be aware, my overriding remit is to decide what I think is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. For the reasons Ive outlined in my 
provisional decision, I dont think it was fair for UKI to decline Mr Ms claim.
In most cases, this service thinks an award of interest is appropriate to reflect the cost to the 
consumer of being deprived of money in the past and I think an interest award is appropriate 
in this case. 
Im also satisfied that an award of compensation is fair in the circumstances, to reflect the 
impact the whole situation had on Mr M. 
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited needs to put things right and do the following:
pay Mr Ms claim, subject to any applicable policy limits and/or excesses together 
with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date the claim was made until the 
date settlement is paid1;
pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as 
a result of UKIs actions. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint against U K Insurance Limited and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from the interest mentioned above, it should tell Mr M how much it has taken off. It should also 
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 