DRN-3092114
The complaint
  Mrs C has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided her with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
  TFS Loans provided Mrs C with a loan of £5,000 in August 2010. This loan had a 30-month 
term with a monthly repayment amount of £299.94. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £8,998.20 was due to be repaid.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS Loans unfairly 
provided this loan. They said, based on what TFS Loans had in front of it, that it should have 
carried out proportionate checks. They went on to conclude that based on the adverse credit 
information it held within its credit search, it shouldnt have provided the loan. TFS Loans 
disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Mrs C borrowed from TFS Loans.
The relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance
(ILG) said that before agreeing credit it needed to check that Mrs C could afford to meet her
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Mrs C being able to meet her repayments
out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further. Ive set out some of
the relevant guidance below for ease.
ILG Paragraph 4.2 stated:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
Paragraph 4.3 stated:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning credit that can be
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a
reasonable period of time
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
And Paragraph 4.4 described undue difficulty:
The OFT would regard without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the borrower
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that
were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings
and
without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Paragraph 4.26 gave an example of irresponsible lending as Granting an application for
credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or reasonably ought to
be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks TFS Loans needed to carry out in
order to reasonably assess whether or not Mrs C would be able to meet her repayments
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This
suggests that the same checks might not be appropriate for all borrowers, or for the same
borrower in all circumstances. In general, Id expect a lender to seek more assurance,
potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an
extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Cs case, I have considered the
following questions:
- did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mrs Cs application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the credit in a
sustainable way? And, if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks
have shown?
- did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were the checks that TFS Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate?
I can see that TFS Loans asked Mrs C about her income and expenditure. It then says it 
also checked through a credit search and also requested bank statements.
TFS Loans verified Mrs Cs income using the bank statements (I can see that it underlined 
her wages received) and after it used expenditure figures provided by Mrs C and checked 
the credit search results it assessed that Mrs C could comfortably afford the loan.
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said about how it calculated Mrs Cs 
disposable income. But I dont think its checks were proportionate. I say this because I can 
see that the amount borrowed, the total repayment and the length of the loan (three years) 
would lead me to think on balance that it should have carried out a complete review of Mrs 
Cs finances.  I think this is particularly relevant to Mrs Cs loan application due to the 
amount of defaults that she had recorded on the credit search that it carried out also. The information provided in the search did not correlate with the assessment it had carried 
out. So, I think it should have gone further and verified Mrs Cs expenditure in more detail.
As I cant see that this TFS Loans did do this within the bank statements it had been 
provided, I dont think that the checks it carried out before providing Mrs C with her loan 
were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mrs C would need to meet her loan 
repayments over 36 months.
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive concluded the checks TFS Loans carried out werent proportionate and that they needed 
to do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks, because I dont think TFS Loans made a fair lending decision when it 
lent to Mrs C anyway, based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search TFS Loans carried out; I can see 
that it shows Mrs C was having problems managing her finances. 
The search showed that Mrs C had defaulted on an account with a credit card provider only 
2 months before she applied for a loan with TFS loans. In addition, she had defaulted with 
another credit card provider and a mail order account within 4 months of her application. 
With all 3 defaults she had balances outstanding to repay. In addition to this she had a 
further 7 defaults that although largely were accrued in the past still had outstanding 
balances for Mrs C to repay. This was completely at odds with what TFS Loans had 
assessed to be her financial circumstances. In addition, it would have had three months 
worth of Mrs Cs most recent bank statements in front of it and it would have seen from 
these that there was not a lot relating to the repayment of these defaults. 
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Mrs P wasnt managing to 
repay her debt, and this resulted in defaulted accounts, showing that she was having 
problems managing her finances. 3 of the defaults had been incurred within 4 months of the 
application indicating that her problems were recent. I think, when I consider this, I think that 
it was unlikely that Mrs P could repay further credit sustainably without experiencing more 
adverse consequences. 
So, I conclude based on what TFS Loans had in front of it, it would have seen Mrs C 
wouldnt have been able to make repayments in a sustainable way.  
As Mrs C has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the 
loans that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what TFS Loans did wrong.
So, it follows that TFS Loans needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs C made, direct to TFS Loans and any third parties, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,000 originally lent. If Mrs C has already repaid more than £5,000.00 then TFS Loans should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mrs C;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs C to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
  For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint about TFS Loans Limited 
and it now needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman