DRN-2419768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A has turned down a cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M booked a holiday in October 2018. They were due to travel abroad on 15 May 
2019. They took out a travel insurance policy to cover their trip on 30 October 2018. Mrs M 
told Mapfre that she suffered from polymyalgia and in April 2019, she declared a diagnosis 
of high blood pressure. Mapfre agreed to cover both conditions.
Unfortunately, on 8 May 2019, Mrs M was told she needed a pacemaker inserted. She 
underwent surgery a short time later. So Mr and Mrs M had to cancel their holiday and they 
made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
Mapfre turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It noted from the medical certificate Mrs Ms GP 
had completed that Mrs M had been referred to a cardiologist in August 2018 as she was 
suffering from palpitations. Shed still been waiting to see the cardiologist when shed taken 
out the travel insurance policy. The policy terms and conditions specifically excluded 
cancellation claims which were related to investigations a policyholder was undergoing when 
the policy was taken out.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with Mapfres decision. They said Mrs Ms symptoms had 
resolved by the time they took out the policy and shed forgotten about the referral. The 
cardiologist had given her an all-clear following her appointment and 48-hour ECG testing. 
They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
medical evidence showed that Mrs M had been waiting for investigations at the time she 
took out the policy. And she felt the policy clearly excluded claims related to investigations a 
policyholder was awaiting when they bought their travel insurance. So she thought it was fair 
for Mapfre to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said theyd been holidaying for years and theyd never had to 
make a claim. They also referred to Mrs Ms GPs letter which said shed been medically fit 
to travel when she took out the policy and the cardiologists letter which said thered been so 
significant findings following the original referral.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about the terms of Mr 
and Mrs Ms policy, the available medical evidence and the circumstances of their claim to 
decide whether Mapfre treated them fairly.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy includes a section called Important Conditions Relating to Health. 
This section includes the following term:
It is a condition of this policy that You will not be covered under Section A  Cancellation
or Curtailment Charges, Section B  Emergency Medical and Other Expenses, Section C 
Hospital Benefit, Section D  Personal Accident and Section T3  Green Fees for any claims
arising directly or indirectly from:
At the time of taking out this policy:
-Any Medical Condition for which You or a Close Relative or a Travelling Companion 
are on a waiting list for or have the knowledge of the need for surgery, treatment or 
investigation at a hospital, clinic or nursing home. 
In order for Mapfre to fairly and reasonably rely on this term, it needs to show that Mrs M 
was on a waiting list or knew about the need for investigations when she took out the policy 
and that these investigations were linked to the condition that ultimately resulted in the 
cancellation of the trip.
Mr and Mrs M took out their travel insurance policy on 30 October 2018. Ive carefully 
considered the medical certificate Mrs Ms GP completed when Mr and Mrs M made their 
claim. This states that the medical condition leading to the claim was intermittent A-V (heart) 
block diagnosed 8/5/19. The medical certificate also asked the GP:
What ongoing medical condition(s), or medical complications directly attributable to the 
conditions(s) were being investigated by a registered medical practitioner at the date the 
insurance (was) purchased?
The GP answered: Had been referred to cardiology re. palpitations and shortness of breath 
(associated on 22/8/18).
Mrs M saw the cardiologist in November 2018 and underwent 48-hour ECG monitoring in 
January 2019. Ive seen the cardiologists letters which confirm there were no significant 
findings, so I can understand why she didnt think there was anything to tell Mapfre after the 
appointment. But its also clear that at the time of taking out the insurance, Mrs M was 
waiting for investigations with the cardiologist. I appreciate Mrs M forgot about the referral 
and that her symptoms had abated by the time she bought the insurance. However, I think 
its fair for Mapfre to conclude the referral fell within the scope of this exclusion clause.
As Ive mentioned above, the GP also directly linked Mrs Ms cardiac referral of 22 August 
2018 to her diagnosis in May 2019. So even though it seems there were no significant 
findings in January 2019; Mrs Ms GP thought the investigations were directly attributable to her later diagnosis. Given this medical evidence, I think it was fair for Mapfre to conclude the 
referral was directly related to Mrs Ms heart block and the fitting of her pacemaker.
Mapfre told us that if Mrs M had told it about her referral when she bought the policy, it 
wouldve excluded cover for all claims related to it. So on this basis, it turned down her claim. 
In the circumstances, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms position, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Mapfre to do so. This means Im not directing it to pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Mapfre did write to Mrs M to explain that if she could provide medical evidence which 
showed there wasnt a link between the referral in August 2018 and her later diagnosis, it 
would reconsider the claim. Its open to Mrs M to get in touch with her GP or cardiologist 
should she wish to do so to obtain such evidence and to send it on to Mapfre to consider. If 
shes unhappy with how it assesses any further medical evidence, we may potentially be 
able to consider a complaint about that issue alone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman