DRN-4247266
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all the 
details here. Instead, I will provide a summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr R was contacted via a well-known social media platform by a third-party promoting a 
cryptocurrency trading investment opportunity.
In July 2022, after doing some research and finding positive reviews, Mr R made a faster 
payment of £1,400 from his Santander account to an account in his own name held with an 
e-money provider. As the initial trades went well, Mr R invested a further £5,000 using the 
same payment method.
Mr R later became concerned when he requested a withdrawal from his investment, and he 
was asked to pay tax before the withdrawal could be processed. When he questioned this, 
his account was blocked and attempts to contact the third-party went unanswered. At this 
point, Mr R realised the third-party hed been dealing with was a scam.
Mr R subsequently complained to Santander as he felt it failed to protect him from financial 
harm by not providing adequate warnings about the payments hed made. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It was satisfied the payments had been properly 
authorised by Mr R. It also explained that, as the payments had gone into a genuine account 
held in Mr Rs name with a legitimate cryptocurrency platform, the payments were not 
covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. Mr R was unhappy with 
Santanders response and so referred a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He didnt think the 
first payment Mr R made would have been particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance 
to Santander, considering Mr Rs transaction history over the previous six months. He noted 
that Santander had intervened when Mr R attempted the second larger payment. And he 
thought Santander had provided Mr R with adequate scam warnings and raised appropriate 
questions about the transaction he was making. He also said that, even if Santander had 
tried to recover the funds, it would have been unsuccessful because by the time Mr R had 
contacted it about the scam the funds had already left the account Mr R had sent the money 
to.
Mr R didnt accept this outcome, he feels Santander should do more to protect customers 
from scams. He says that at the time he was in a vulnerable position suffering from a 
medical condition and was at risk of losing his job. 
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr R asked for an ombudsmans review. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, but for the reasons Ill go 
on to explain I dont think Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Im sorry to hear Mr R was the victim of a sophisticated and targeted scam and lost money 
as a result. I can appreciate why he wants to do all he can to recover the money he lost. But 
I can only direct Santander to refund Mr Rs losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held 
responsible for them. 
Mr R doesnt dispute that he made the payments from his Santander account. This means 
they were authorised by him. So, the starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the account terms and conditions is that Mr R is responsible for the payments as 
well as any resulting losses. 
But the matter doesnt end there. Santander should also be on the look-out for, and help to 
prevent, payments that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. It has also committed 
to reimbursing customers under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code).  
The CRM code is a voluntary code which requires signatories, such as Santander, to 
reimburse customers who are victims of scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
But the CRM code does not apply in Mr Rs case, as his payments were made to an account 
in his own name.  
But there are other relevant obligations that could apply. In accordance with the law, 
regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry practice, 
Santander should protect its customers, as far as is reasonably possible, against the risk of 
financial harm from fraud and scams. As such, there are circumstances where it might be 
appropriate for it to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
But Santander would only need to intervene and ask more questions about a payment if an 
instruction was sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account. Ultimately, there is a 
balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments. So, the starting point for me is to consider 
whether any of Mr Rs payment instructions were particularly unusual or uncharacteristic, 
either individually or collectively, considering his usual account activity.
Ive reviewed Mr Rs account statements from July 2021 to August 2022. Having done so, I 
cant reasonably conclude the initial payment to the scam was sufficiently out of character 
with Mr Rs normal account activity or otherwise so unusual/suspicious that Santander 
should have intervened. Mr R statements show that in the six months leading up to the first 
disputed payment Mr R made several transactions for more than the disputed payment to 
the extent that the first disputed payment would have appeared in keeping with Mr Rs day-
to-day account activity. So, I would not have expected Santander to have intervened when 
he instructed the initial payment.
The second payment was larger than the first. And Ive seen that Santander did have 
concerns about it. Santander blocked the payment and asked Mr R to contact it. Ive listened 
to a recording of the subsequent call. Having done so, Im satisfied that Santander asked    Mr R appropriate questions around why he was making the payment and it provided a 
warning about investment scams and the potential risks of investing in unregulated 
investments like cryptocurrency. 
Even if Santander had asked more questions, Im not persuaded this would have made a 
difference. In response to Santanders questions, Mr R indicated he was aware of the risks 
and that it was friends who had recommended the investment. He said he was learning to 
trade by himself and that no one else had access to his account. He added that he was 
comfortable making the payment. Overall, Im not persuaded that Santander could have 
done anything more to prevent Mr R from making the payment.
Ive considered whether, on being alerted to the scam, Santander should have done 
anything to recover Mr Rs losses. But, by the time Mr R contacted Santander, its not in 
dispute that the funds had already left the account he had transferred them to. So, I find that 
its most likely that any recovery attempt would have been unsuccessful. 
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr R being the victim of what was clearly 
a cruel scam  particularly as it happened at what was a stressful time in his life. But it would 
only be fair for me to direct Santander to refund his loss if I thought it was responsible  and 
Im not persuaded that this was the case. Everything considered, I cannot fairly and 
reasonably hold Santander liable in these circumstances. It follows that I will not be asking it 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman