DRN-2418548
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) relates to incorrect advice 
he received about adding his wife to his account. This, he says, resulted in him making a 
wasted trip from Europe to the UK incurring unnecessary expense.
What happened
Mr H lives in Europe and has for many years held an account in his sole name with 
Nationwide. In June 2019 he rang Nationwide asking to add his wife to the account. He was 
told he could, but they would both need to attend in branch to complete the process. 
Nationwide told him they would send him some forms to pre-complete but when they didnt 
arrive, he rang Nationwide and was told they couldnt send them to him after all because he 
lived abroad.
In September Mr H and his wife went into a branch in the UK. Mr H and his wife had 
historically made annual trips to the UK to see her family. Mr H says when in the branch the 
assistant checked twice with Nationwides head office to confirm that Mr Hs wife could be 
added to the account. The paperwork was completed, and Mr H says he left believing that 
his wife had been added to the account as he was told a cheque book would be sent to 
them. Mr Hs wife then arranged for a large sum of money to be paid into Mr Hs account in 
the belief it was now a joint account.
Subsequently Nationwide advised Mr H his wife could not in fact be added to the account 
because she lived outside the UK. Mr H was upset because his wife then had no 
independent access to her money.
Mr H complained to Nationwide who accepted they had given him wrong information and 
had caused him to have an unnecessary trip to the branch. They apologised and paid £100 
into his account.
Mr H was unhappy with Nationwides final response as he thought the entire costs of his trip 
ought to be reimbursed as he wouldnt have gone to the UK at all if he hadnt been told it 
was necessary. He approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute 
and one of investigators looked into it but thought that although there had been poor 
service, the amount of compensation Nationwide had paid was enough to put things right. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 3 November 2020 and neither Mr H or Nationwide 
have responded. In the absence of any further evidence or representations I shall make my 
provisional decision final.
The factual background to this complaint is largely accepted. Nationwide have accepted that 
it told Mr H that his wife could be added to his account and that to do so he was required to 
go into a branch. It also accepts it told him that forms would be posted to him and that it later 
said they couldnt. 
Mr H accepts he told Nationwide in June that he had visited the UK three of four times per 
year and that it wouldnt be a problem for him to attend in a branch when he next visited. But 
since that time, and before his trip to the branch, Mr H says his circumstances changed 
significantly since his father in law and brother in law, both of whom lived in the UK, passed 
away. And further, Mr Hs own health conditions had deteriorated to the point that travelling 
was becoming more difficult. Because of that Mr H says that he and his wife no longer had a 
need to visit the UK, and had he been given the correct information by Nationwide that his 
wife could not be added to the account he wouldnt have made the trip.
The issue in this complaint now revolves around the appropriate level of compensation. 
Nationwide has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it paid Mr H £100. 
Mr H has provided evidence that he spent 2 nights in a hotel and had two return flight tickets. 
He does not seek to claim any other associated travel expenses.
Ive given some thought to whether I think what Nationwide paid is fair and reasonable and I 
think the issue is whether Mr Hs trip was purely for the purposes of going into the branch or 
whether he and his wife were able to combine it with one of their routine visits.  If it was the 
latter then clearly Mr H and his wife would have had some benefit from their trip, and it 
wouldnt be fair to ask Nationwide to pay for it.
I am very sorry to hear that Mr Hs relatives passed away. Self-evidently that will mean the 
reason for him and his wife to return to the UK would diminish. It is possible that his wife has 
remaining family in the UK, but Mr H has been clear and consistent with his version of 
events and Im persuaded by what hes said about his circumstances here. I realise that it is 
unusual that a customer needs to travel such a distance just to carry out an action like the 
one here  but I have to take into account the individual circumstances here. Having done 
so, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the reason for Mr Hs journey to the UK was 
solely to deal with this matter with Nationwide.
I am also sorry to hear of his Mr Hs deteriorating health conditions, and again this would 
certainly also have a direct impact on his decision to travel, and I again accept that if he 
could avoid travelling then he would. That is reasonable. 
So, taking this into account, I have no reason to doubt Mr H when he says he would not 
have travelled in September. I have considered whether he might have been able to make 
the trip all in one day, but given his situation, I think that would be an unreasonable 
expectation. I have gone on to consider the expenses he has claimed, and I think these are 
modest and reasonable. He bought two flight tickets for a total of £148 and spent £241 on 
hotel accommodation. I have noted he used some of his wifes airmiles to reduce the flight 
costs, which again is very reasonable.
Finally, I shall address the issue of Mr Hs wife being unable to access her money which is 
now in Mr Hs sole account, but of course Mr H does have it in his power to transfer that 
money out to a different account in his wifes name. I appreciate that his wife may not have 
such an account but had Mr H been given the correct information by Nationwide to begin with she would have needed to open a separate account to receive that money anyway. As 
such she is in no worse a position that she would have been.
Putting things right
So, I do think that Nationwide have acted unfairly here, and I am going to uphold this 
complaint and tell Nationwide that it should reimburse Mr H for his entire travel costs for his 
trip in September, in addition to the £100 compensation it has already paid for the trouble 
and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr H additional compensation 
of £389 to settle this complaint. I think that is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman