DRN-3781733
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Cartlidge Morland Limited (CML). She says that CML failed to 
arrange an income payment from her pension in the 2021/2022 tax year. As a result of this 
she was left with no income for that year, and if she wants to recoup the missed payment in 
subsequent tax years, she will incur an increased tax bill. 
What happened
Mrs M transferred an occupational scheme into a personal arrangement in 2017. She was 
taking an annual drawdown from this to provide an income and manage her tax situation. 
She was doing this at the end of each tax year when she could determine the amount she 
needed  with reference to not becoming a higher rate taxpayer. CML was aware that this 
was how Mrs M wanted to manage the plan and it had administered the withdrawals so far. 
On 10 March 2022 CML contacted Mrs M by email saying it had not received a drawdown 
instruction for the tax year ending in 2022. It requested confirmation that she didnt want an 
income payment this year. 
Mrs M emailed on 13 March 2022 to confirm a drawdown would be needed, but this email 
wasnt received by CML. Mrs M telephoned on 23 and 28 March 2022 to confirm that she did 
want to make a withdrawal. She also emailed CML on 24 March 2022. But CML wasnt able 
to arrange a drawdown before the end of the tax year. 
Mrs M complained in 2022 to CML She said she had a longstanding arrangement with CML 
to arrange a drawdown towards the end of the tax year, and she was surprised when it 
contacted her on 10 March 2022, saying that it assumed she was not taking a drawdown. 
She says she contacted CML to make a withdrawal, but it hadnt received her emails. 
Mrs M says that she thinks that CML has incorrectly configured its email system which has 
resulted in the emails she was sending being blocked. And this is ultimately why she couldnt 
make a withdrawal in late 2022. 
CML didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It said that it had been agreed each year that Mr M, on 
Mrs Ms behalf, would notify CML about how much income Mrs M would need in March. 
After some investigation it was determined that CML didnt receive any instruction. And it 
didnt think its email system was at fault. So, it didnt think it should pay compensation.  
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator initially thought that the 
complaint should be upheld. He thought that it wasnt reasonable to say that Mrs Ms emails 
werent received due to a problem CML had caused. But it should have prioritised a 
drawdown after being informed by telephone on 23 March 2022 that Mrs M did want to make 
a withdrawal. If it had done this, its likely this could have been arranged before the end of 
the tax year. He thought that CML should pay compensation on this basis. 
In response to this CML said that the instruction needed to be with Mrs Ms pension provider 
by 21 March 2022 to process a withdrawal. And it was already too late to do this after 
Mrs Ms telephone call of 23 March 2022. 
Our Investigator then didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He said that as CML didnt receive an 
instruction in time to make the withdrawal, and it hadnt delayed any instruction Mrs M may 
have wanted to give, then it wasnt reasonable for it to provide compensation. 
Mrs M disagreed, saying:
CML was aware that Mrs M wanted to take a withdrawal each year and so it should 
have assumed that she would want to take one at the end of 2022. 
It was likely that CML misconfigured its email system which led to it not receiving the 
emails Mrs M sent. It should take responsibility for this. 
And it should have acted on the telephone calls Mrs M made in March 2022. 
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs M says that CML should have been aware that it was likely she would want to make a 
withdrawal towards the end of 2022. As this was the strategy that they had agreed. I think its 
clear that CML was aware that Mrs M would want to do this, as it contacted her on 10 March 
2022 to make sure that it was right that she didnt want to make a withdrawal. 
Mrs M says that she responded to this email and asked that the withdrawal process was 
started. CML didnt receive this email. At the heart of this complaint is that Mrs M feels CML 
should have better managed its email systems to ensure it received communications such 
as hers. Mrs M has said this should have been a relatively straightforward thing to do. But 
CML has said that the problem lies with either with Mrs Ms email provider or some 
connectivity problems. And having looked at what both sides have said, I dont think I can 
conclusively say that the problem Mrs M had with contacting CML could have been rectified 
by CML. 
Given the overall circumstances of this situation its reasonable to have expected CML to be 
proactive here, and I think it was. CML had notified Mrs M on 10 March 2022 that a 
withdrawal wasnt arranged. But, whilst a strategy was agreed about the income 
withdrawals, Mrs M still needed to request a withdrawal before one could be made. CML 
could only really act on Mrs Ms instruction here, and whatever had been agreed between 
CML and Mrs M, she was free to make a withdrawal at any point. 
I cant see that Mrs M made a request for a withdrawal before her response to CMLs email 
of 10 March 2022. This withdrawal request was sent by email on 13 March 2022. Given that 
the cut-off date to submit a withdrawal application was 21 March 2022, this was already a 
constrained timeframe. But CML didnt receive this request in any event. And CML didnt receive a clear indication that Mrs M wanted to make a withdrawal until 
23 March 2022, which was after the time the pension provider needed an instruction to 
withdraw. So, it was too late to action this request for the 2021/2022 tax year anyway. 
So, Im not persuaded that CML could have done much more here. Because of this I dont 
think its reasonable to say that Mrs M not receiving the withdrawal she wanted was entirely 
due to the action or inaction of CML, and so Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman