DRN-4408580
The complaint
Mrs S has complained London Mutual Credit Union Limited wont refund money for cash 
machine withdrawals.
What happened
After getting back from holiday in January 2023, Mrs S complained to London Mutual that 
there were unauthorised cash machine withdrawals on her account. These had occurred 
when shed been on holiday so she didnt believe she could have made these herself.
She then got back in touch with London Mutual that there were withdrawals back to January 
2022 that werent hers. 
London Mutual apologised for the late delivery of her replacement card and PIN in 
December 2022. They also explained that due to system issues, withdrawals between 13 
and 25 December 2022 didnt appear on statements until January 2023. They felt this 
showed these withdrawals had all been made by Mrs S.
Unhappy, Mrs S asked the ombudsman service to progress her complaint.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. She felt this showed Mrs S still had her card and 
PIN prior to its replacement in December 2022, and then had the new card in her 
possession. She didnt believe there was evidence to show these withdrawals were 
unauthorised.
Mrs S has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mrs Ss complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Firstly I should like to confirm that I wont be considering the cash machine withdrawals 
which took place in January 2022 which Mrs S disputed. As Mrs S already knows, these took 
place more than 13 months before she complained to London Mutual in writing at the end of 
February 2023. In accordance with the PSRs, Mrs S must have complained about disputed 
transactions within 13 months of them taking place.
I have, however, looked at all the other transactions that Mrs S disputed, along with the 
evidence London Mutual provided to our service. I have also noted the detailed view 
provided by our investigator in September 2023.
The evidence confirms the genuine card and PIN were used for the disputed transactions. 
Within these disputed withdrawals, I can see Mrs S was making other transactions with her 
card and PIN which she hasnt disputed. Mrs S never reported her card lost or stolen prior to 
the replacement card she received in December 2022, and shes confirmed the later card 
remained within her possession. For someone else to be using her card and PIN means that 
someone close to her must have done this. This would be the only explanation for someone 
being able to know where her card was kept, what her PIN was, and being able to replace 
this regularly to enable Mrs S to also use the card when she needed to. I dont see any 
evidence that this was the case. In fact its most likely Mrs S made the withdrawals herself. I 
appreciate she has disputed this but I believe this is what happened.
This is particularly the case when I consider the later transactions which were made with 
Mrs Ss replacement card and PIN. These were only provided to her in December 2022. I 
believe her immediate concern on raising fraud with London Mutual was that these 
transactions took place whilst she was on holiday.
As its turned out this definitely wasnt the case. In fact the six withdrawals all took place in 
December after Mrs S had belatedly received both her new card and PIN and prior to going 
away on holiday. I appreciate the distress that was caused when Mrs S believed mistakenly 
these had taken place when she was away and in some cases took place on the same day 
exceeding her daily withdrawal limit. This was caused by a system error in processing 
transactions to her London Mutual account (hers and other London Mutual customers) which 
only appeared in January 2023. However Ive seen the detailed evidence and can see these 
withdrawals did take place in December. Mrs Ss own evidence to London Mutual confirmed 
that one of her last December withdrawals was one of £240 which matches what London 
Mutual told us. 
Im sure Mrs S has had some issues with her London Mutual account. Her replacement card 
and PIN arrived later than they should because of postal delays and card shortage issues. 
She had issues with her online banking and found it difficult to get transparent information 
about how her account operated and the costs related to it. Im aware that Mrs S has 
subsequently closed her account with London Mutual.
London Mutual has apologised for those issues and offered compensation  specifically 
£100 for the mis-posting of transactions in January 2023 rather than December 2022 and 
£80 for the delay in Mrs S receiving her replacement card and PIN. I believe £180 is fair and 
reasonable for the trouble Mrs S has had. 
However overall Im satisfied that these disputed withdrawals were most likely authorised by 
Mrs S.
As Mrs S has closed her account with London Mutual, theyve not been able to pay her the 
compensation due, so Mrs S will need to confirm where she wants this paid to if she wants 
to accept this outcome.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct London Mutual Credit Union Limited to 
pay £180 to Mrs S for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman