DRN-2810745
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed and defaulted his current account even
though he had agreed a payment plan.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
What happened
Mr A had a current account with Barclays that had an overdraft. Mr A has told us he had a
payment plan in place from January 2020. In May 2020 Barclays sent Mr A a termination
notice that said the account would be closed on 9 June 2020 if the outstanding balance
wasnt repaid.
On 14 May 2020 Mr A spoke with Barclays and discussed a new payment plan. An income
and expenditure assessment was carried out to see whether Mr A could afford to maintain
repayments to reduce the outstanding balance. Mr A says he started making payments at
the end of May 2020 as he thought the payment plan had been put in place. Barclays says
Mr A told it he couldnt afford to make a payment to start the new plan until he got paid on 27
June 2020 so asked him to call back around 25 May 2020, a month before, so the plan could
be set up.
On 27 May 2020, Mr A made a £200 payment into the account that brought the balance
within the overdraft limit. But as Barclays had already sent a termination notice, it didnt stop
the closure process.
Mr A has told us he was a frontline worker and was working away from home during the
period in question. Mr A says he tried to call Barclays on 8 June 2020 to discuss his account
and waited on hold for 90 minutes. Mr A has explained that he wasnt able to wait any longer
so didnt complete the call.
On 9 June 2020 Barclays closed Mr As account and went on to report a default on his credit
file.
Mr A complained and Barclays responded on 30 June 2020. Barclays said Mr A had failed to
call back as requested to set up the payment plan which meant its decision to close his
account and report a default was correct. Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it
was passed to an investigator. They thought Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly and
didnt ask it to do anything else.
In response to the investigator Mr A repeated that he had tried to call Barclays before the
account closure date, but after waiting on hold for 90 minutes ended the call. Mr A also said
that the call note Barclays provided as evidence wasnt sufficiently clear and shouldnt be
relied upon. Mr A Mr A asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that, following his call on 14 May 2020, he thought the payment plan had been set
up on his account. Mr A has told us he had previously made payments under an informal
arrangement that didnt require him to call back. I note that Mr A went on to pay £200 into
the account on 27 May 2020, around the time Barclays says it asked him to call. Mr A says
the requirement to call back and confirm the plan around 25 May 2020 wasnt made clear to
him.
Barclays has recently provided a copy of the call in question and confirmed the process of
setting up the initial payment plan and Resolve Loan shouldve been explained more clearly
to Mr A. Barclays now agrees the complaint should be upheld. Im pleased Barclays has
agreed to change its view on how to deal with Mr As complaint as I agree the information
provided was unclear.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr As complaint. Barclays says that if Mr A accepts, it
will agree to put the three month initial payment plan in place and report that on his credit
file. Once three monthly payments have been received, Barclays will consolidate the
remaining balance to a Resolve Loan which will also appear on Mr As credit file as a debt
consolidation loan. Barclays also says that it will report Mr As account balance as over the
agreed limit from June 2020 until the new arrangements are put in place.
Whilst I understand Barclays would have to report the payment plan and Resolve Loan on
Mr As credit file, Im not persuaded its fair to report his account balance as in excess of the
overdraft limit from June 2020 onwards. Mr A had an overdraft facility of £4,880 and at the
point his account was terminated in June 2020 the balance was below that figure. As
Barclays accepts it wasnt fair to close Mr As account and report a default from June 2020,
Im not persuaded it would be fair to report his balance as being over the agreed overdraft
limit once a settlement has been put in place. In my view, to resolve the complaint, Barclays
should reinstate Mr As overdraft facility of £4,880 on his credit file and show his balance
was within that from June 2020 onwards.
Mr A recently told our investigator he may be in a position to clear the outstanding balance in
full without need to take the payment plan and Resolve Loan option. In that situation, there
would be no need for Barclays to report a payment plan or Resolve Loan on Mr As credit
file.
Mr A has also told us that the information reported by Barclays on his credit file has caused
him problems obtaining credit with other businesses. Whilst I dont doubt the information
Barclays has reported will have had an impact on Mr As credit file, he hasnt been able to
send us a full report. Ive seen a video that shows some of the information reported by
Barclays but Im unable to see whether there is anything further that may have affected Mr
As credit score. Without seeing any further information, I cant fairly say what impact the
default Barclays has reported has had on Mr A. Hes welcome to supply us a full copy of his
credit file in response to this provisional decision and Ill consider this point further.
As Ive said above, Im not persuaded its fair for Barclays to report Mr As overdraft as in
excess of the limit from June 2020 onwards. And Mr A has explained he is being contacted
by debt collectors and has suffered a significant amount of distress and inconvenience as a
result of what happened. I agree that the award should reflect that.Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint and tell
Barclays to settle as follows:
If Mr A repays the outstanding balance in full, Barclays should:
-Record his account as settled on his credit file
-Remove any adverse information reported from June 2020 onwards
-Pay Mr A £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused
If Mr A isnt in a position to clear the balance in full, Barclays should:
-Reopen Mr As current account and transfer the balance held with its recoveries 
department back into it
-Set up the previously agreed three month payment plan
-Following receipt of agreed payments for three months, Barclays to put the Resolve 
Loan in place
-Details of the three month payment plan and Resolve Loan will be reported on Mr As 
credit file
-Remove all references to an account termination and default from Mr As credit file
-Remove all references to Mr A being over his agreed overdraft limit from June 2020 
onwards from Mr As credit file 
-Pay Mr A £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused  
I asked both parties to respond with any additional comments and information they wanted 
me to take into account before I reached my final decision. Mr A responded and provided a 
full copy of his credit file. Mr A also asked for the compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to be increased. Barclays responded to confirm it had nothing further to add.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr A and Barclays for responding so quickly. Barclays didnt send me any 
new information to consider. 
Mr A sent me a copy of his credit file that shows he doesnt have any other adverse credit 
recorded. Mr A has told us he was declined for credit due to the impact of the issues raised. I 
can see various searches from different businesses. Most of the searches relate to either 
businesses that Mr A already has a relationship with or credit reference monitoring checks. 
However, I can see Mr A applied for finance during the period in question which, he has 
confirmed, was declined. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I still think the £400 award I set out in my provisional 
decision fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised. As I said in my provisional decision, I 
understand the default likely affected Mr As credit score and ability to secure other credit. 
And whilst I can see searches, it doesnt appear he made lots of different applications during 
the period in question so the impact was reasonably limited. Ive considered everything Mr A 
has told us and Im satisfied the £400 award is fair in all the circumstances. 
In my provisional decision I set out two potential ways of settling the complaint. Mr A didnt 
say whether he intended to settle the outstanding balance or proceed with the Resolve plan 
and loan option. If Mr A accepts this decision, he can confirm how he wishes to proceed 
directly with Barclays. Ive considered everything that Mr A and Barclays have said in response to my provisional 
decision. I remain of the view that the options I set out in my provisional decision are fair 
ways to resolve this complaint. For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr As complaint 
and directing Barclays to settle as follows: 
If Mr A repays the outstanding balance in full, Barclays should:
- Record his account as settled on his credit file
- Remove any adverse information reported from June 2020 onwards
- Pay Mr A £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused
If Mr A isnt in a position to clear the balance in full, Barclays should:
- Reopen Mr As current account and transfer the balance held with its recoveries 
department back into it
- Set up the previously agreed three month payment plan
- Following receipt of agreed payments for three months, Barclays to put the Resolve 
Loan in place
- Details of the three month payment plan and Resolve Loan will be reported on Mr As 
credit file
- Remove all references to an account termination and default from Mr As credit file
- Remove all references to Mr A being over his agreed overdraft limit from June 2020 
onwards from Mr As credit file 
- Pay Mr A £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused  
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle in line 
with the above guidance, subject to Mr As acceptance and confirmation of which option he 
wishes to proceed with.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman