DRN-4286062
The complaint
Mr B complains, via a professional representative, about a transfer of pension benefits from 
a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says he 
was advised to transfer, and he believes that advice was unsuitable for him and has 
potentially caused him a financial loss. 
Mr B says the advice was given by a business which Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited is now responsible for answering complaints about. For ease of 
reading this decision, Ill largely just refer to Sun Life throughout.
What happened
Ive seen evidence that Mr B first dealt with Sun Life in February 1989, when he opened a 
personal pension with it. At that time Sun Life recorded that he was 36, employed, married 
with two dependent children. His selected retirement age for the new pension was 65. In 
addition to the pension he was setting up at the time, it was noted that Mr B had two other 
pensions, from previous employment.
A confidential review document was completed by Sun Life in May 1991 when it met again 
with Mr B. Mr B was 38 at that point. The review document said a pension fund transfer 
only was required and Mr B wished to have a full review of his affairs at a later date. It said 
Mr B preferred to sign a negative review at this stage and the adviser was to recontact this 
client when this transfer has been completed. His selected retirement age was still 65. 
Mr B signed a declaration that said hed received a business card and buyers guide from 
Sun Life and confirmed that I / we have withheld relevant information and therefore accept 
that best advice may not be given. There was a section of the review for managers 
comments which again noted the phrase negative review and said Mr B had been shown 
illustrations of his existing pension and a new personal pension and he had elected to 
transfer.
An additional information section again said a full comparison had been made of the 
estimated benefits of Mr Bs existing pension and a new personal pension and included 
some of the figures compared. The existing pension was named as one of the two existing 
pensions that were noted in 1989. An application was completed at the same time for a 
transfer to a new personal pension. Sun Lifes records indicate this pension started on 3 July 
1991.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an industry-
wide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 
1994. It was generally known as the Pension Review. It aimed to address concerns about 
the possible widespread mis-selling of personal pension plans between these dates. 
Sun Life sent Mr B a questionnaire to complete in 1996 in relation to the pension review. 
Sun Life wrote to Mr B in July 1996 and said, the information hed provided indicated he 
hadnt left or failed to join an employers pension scheme in favour of the policy he now held. 
So, it didnt intend to review the matter further and his pension does not appear to have been 
included in the pension review at that point. 
Mr B transferred his pensions to a different provider in July 2000.
Mr Bs representatives complained to Sun Life on his behalf in 2022. They said Mr B thought 
the pension hed been advised to take in 1991 was not as beneficial as his original pension 
and that hed been negligently advised to transfer. 
The complaint was subsequently referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr Bs 
representatives added that he was advised to transfer because hed receive a higher 
pension at retirement, he hadnt been informed of the risks of transferring and he hadnt 
been given time to consider the advice. It also said comparisons hadnt been shared with 
Mr B and the adviser had not gotten back in touch with him.
Sun Life did not uphold the complaint. It said its records around the pension review indicated 
Mr B hadnt transferred from a DB scheme. And, due to the time that had passed it held very 
few records from the time of sale. So, it said it couldnt investigate his concerns or establish 
that it had made an error. It did though dispute that it hadnt provided him a comparison to 
consider, as details of this were included in the confidential review document that was still 
available. And on the point of the adviser not following up with Mr B, while again this couldnt 
be confirmed, it noted Mr B had been in fairly regular discussion with the adviser from 1989 
to 1991, so said it was satisfied if Mr B needed further assistance, he couldve contacted the 
adviser.
Mr B provided confirmation from his former employer that his previous pension was a DB 
scheme.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
was satisfied that the available documents indicated that Sun Life had discussed a transfer 
of benefits with Mr B and had provided comparisons. And that the ceding scheme was a DB 
pension. But she said she couldnt reasonably conclude that Sun Life had recommended a 
transfer. Mr B had completed a declaration acknowledging Sun Life may not be able to 
provide best advice due to information not being provided. The comparisons indicated, while 
a personal pension was likely to provide more tax-free cash, the annual pension was likely to 
be higher under the existing scheme. But the documents had said Mr B required a fund 
transfer. And the references to a negative review, suggested that a transfer was against 
Sun Lifes recommendation, but Mr B had chosen to proceed. So, on balance, she didnt 
think she could reasonably conclude Sun Life had provided unsuitable advice.
Mr Bs representatives did not agree. They said Mr B believed Sun Life had advised him to 
transfer and he didnt think he noticed the declaration about withholding information. His 
representative also said that the comparison notes were unclear and may have actually 
suggested a personal pension would be more beneficial  which it said was misleading 
because the existing scheme was a DB pension. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time the 
advice was given. It isnt appropriate to apply todays regulations retrospectively. And I need to be clear Im looking at what happened when the transfer took place, based on the wider 
circumstances at the time  not if a transfer was suitable based on what we now know and 
the rules that apply today. 
The events complained about took place over 32 years ago. And the information from the 
time is very limited as neither party has retained a great deal of documentation. I dont think 
that is unreasonable, particularly as Mr B seems to have moved his pensions with Sun Life 
to another provider in 2000  23 years ago. Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I must reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
Im satisfied that Mr B took out a new pension policy with Sun Life in 1991 and that he 
appears to have transferred the benefits from a DB scheme from a period of previous 
employment. And the documents confirm he had a discussion with Sun Life, when applying 
for that new policy. 
At the time, based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied the adviser was a member of 
the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). The rules set by 
LAUTRO in relation to selling practices would therefore have applied. These included that 
Sun Life needed to give best advice which included not making inaccurate criticisms of 
other options and not advising he transfer unless Sun Life believed it to be in Mr Bs best 
interests.
But the documents from the time also say Mr B accepted that best advice may not be given 
here, because not all of the necessary information had been provided. This suggests to me 
that a recommendation may not have been given by Sun Life, particularly when considering 
the suggestion of a transfer only being required and a full review of circumstances not 
having taken place and being planned for later. Id also note that, at that time, Mr B was not 
required to take advice in order to make such a transfer.
Mr B has said he doesnt think he noticed that declaration at the time. But given how long 
ago this all happened, I wouldnt expect him to remember this in any detail. And on balance, 
I think what he signed  which was one of two distinct options  likely reflected the 
discussion that took place.
I also think the documents from the time suggest that, if advice was given on a limited 
information basis, a transfer may not have been recommended by Sun Life.
A comparison was recorded between the existing scheme benefits and those that a personal 
pension could potentially offer. These indicated that a personal pension was likely to provide 
greater tax-free cash at the normal scheme retirement date. But they also indicate that the 
annual pension available through the existing scheme was estimated to be greater than that 
of a personal pension. It was noted that this was shown to Mr B, which he signed to confirm. 
But he chose to transfer to a new personal pension. 
The document also confirmed that Mr B preferred, at that time, to sign a negative review. 
This was noted in the section prior to the declaration Mr B signed about understanding best 
advice may not be given.  And this was repeated later again in the managers review notes. A 
negative review is not defined in the documentation. But taking this, the comparison and 
Mr Bs noted preference for a transfer only, a review at a later date and to proceed at that 
time into account, on balance I think it appears that he was likely acting against Sun Lifes 
advice to proceed, if it provided advice.
Mr B has said that he was told by Sun Life hed be better off if he transferred and that was why he went ahead. But again, this all took place over three decades ago. Memories can 
and do fade and can for that reason, particularly after such a long time, be unreliable. I 
wouldnt expect Mr B to recall the meeting or application in any great detail. And, given he 
had set up another pension with Sun Life, shortly prior to this transfer, he could be confusing 
a positive recommendation he received at that time with this discussion.
Mr Bs representatives have said the comparison, which is handwritten, includes a mark 
which could be additional information  specifically another digit that would mean the 
estimated annual pension from a personal pension was in fact higher than that of the DB 
scheme. So, it believes this supports that Sun Life did recommend a transfer and that the 
comparison must be misleading, because Mr B was giving up a DB scheme which is of 
greater value.
Firstly, I dont think the mark on the copy documentation is enough to say that the estimated 
benefits of the personal pension were higher  particularly bearing in mind what Ive said 
about the other factors suggesting Mr B had potentially acted against Sun Lifes advice. But 
in any event, even if the comparison did suggest benefits might be higher under a personal 
pension, I dont agree with Mr Bs representative that this means they were clearly incorrect.
The investment climate today is very different to that which existed at the time of the advice 
here. So, what may have been reasonable assumptions at the time around potential for 
growth are likely to be different to those that would be made now. With hindsight those past 
assumptions may appear to be inaccurate. But at the time of the advice, they were 
reasonable. For example, the industry standard growth projections were much higher than 
they are today  the upper projection rate was 13%, middle rate 10.75% and lower rate 
8.5%. The regulator also published rates for Financial Viability Tests, as this transfer took 
place during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review. And the upper limit the 
regulator gave for a Financial Viability Test was 12.9%, based on Mr Bs age and him retiring 
at age 65. So, I dont agree that projections showing a potential improvement of benefits by 
transferring were automatically misleading, given the climate at the time.
Mr Bs representatives have said Sun Life did not contact him again after the transfer, as the 
documents indicated it would. Again, given how long ago this all happened, its possible that 
Sun Life did speak to Mr B again, but he has since forgotten. But if it didnt, he wasnt 
prevented from contacting it instead. And in any event, even if a follow up after the advice 
didnt take place, I dont think that means Sun Life has made an error in respect of the 
transfer itself.
Taking everything into account, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, I 
cant reasonably say on balance, based on the evidence and information Ive seen that 
Sun Life gave him unsuitable advice here. So, I dont require Sun Life to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman