DRN-3260334
The complaint
L complains that Ives & Taylor Insurances Ltd (I&T) has mis-sold it a commercial property 
insurance policy.
Any reference to L or I&T includes the actions of respective agents or representatives, 
unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
In 2017 L took out a Company A commercial property insurance policy through I&T 
as a broker on an advised basis.
Following a fire in 2019, L made a claim. L sought to claim for a loss of rental income 
related to its equipment and machinery that had been damaged by the fire.
Company A declined the claim, saying there was no such cover under this policy. 
Instead Ls policy included loss of rent for the premises  but not for machinery or 
equipment.
L complained, saying it had required this specific cover and this had been agreed by 
I&T prior to the policys inception. And that after seeking advice, two separate 
policies shouldve been taken out  a property owners policy and a plant hire 
insurance policy. And L said I&Ts presentation of sought cover from Company A was 
not clear. L summarised:
oI&T failed to present Ls needs when seeking quotes; and
othe quotes obtained didnt meet Ls needs and werent suitably explained to L, 
including the lack of plant hire cover.
I&T responded, saying:
oThe presentation it made when seeking quotes reflected the demands and 
needs of L at the time.
oThe business interruption section of the policy detailed cover as rent 
receivable for the premises. And that no queries were raised after the policy 
details were shared with L.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said I&T had sent a copy of the policy documents to L in July 2017, 
recommending the documentation was checked to ensure it met Ls needs. And the 
investigator said the schedule was clear rent for the premises could be claimed for, 
but nothing related to any machinery or equipment.
The investigator said there were no recordings of phone calls available, but shed 
looked at email chains between parties and these made no mention of the cover or 
need for cover that L says it sought.
L responded, providing a copy of a rent agreement for machinery as well as emails 
that it said showed rental income for machinery had been specified when taking out 
cover, including a statement from the director of I&T (Mr A) saying the claim should 
be paid.
This was shared with I&T and Mr A said again the claim should be paid, suggesting L 
redirect its claim against the insurer directly. 
The investigator didnt change her mind, saying the emails provided were all from 
after the claim was made. And shed been provided with nothing to show this was 
ever requested as part of the cover or that I&T led L to believe the loss of rent for 
machinery and equipment was included at the time of the sale.
L disagreed  reiterating that the statement from Mr A was conclusive in showing L 
had requested cover for loss of use of machinery  supported by his assurance the 
claim should be paid.
The investigator said Mr As belief that the cover was in place, wasnt enough to 
show hed led L to believe this cover was in place at the time of the sale.
On Ls request, the investigator contacted Mr A directly, asking whether L had 
specifically asked for the cover in question related to machinery. He said he could not 
recall, but felt the documentation suggested it should be covered as it was included 
in the presentation and within the insurers schedule.
As the parties disagreed, the complaint was been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. I issued my provisional thoughts on the complaint on 23 November 2021 explaining 
why I intended to uphold the complaint. Ive included an extract of this below.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take 
into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
L complains that I&T sold it an unsuitable policy. So, Ive thought about the 
obligations that I&T had when recommending this cover.
I&T has said this particular sale was completed on an advised basis. This means it 
had to ensure the policy was suitable for Ls needs. And if the policy contains any 
unusual, onerous or restrictive terms, this needs to be clearly highlighted.
When selling a policy of this nature, wed expect to see a seller asking enough 
questions to be able to assess their customers needs. This is usually seen within a 
demands and needs statement or a fact find document, which typically will outline 
the questions asked, the requirements gathered, and how these have been met 
through the recommended policy.
Sellers can also recommend policies which arent entirely suitable, but they must 
make it clear that this is the case, and why that is, so the consumer can make an 
informed choice about whether to accept the cover.
Specifically, in this case, L has argued that it required cover for loss of use of 
equipment and machinery that it rents out as part of its business.
I&T has said most recently that it cannot recall what specific cover was discussed 
when selling the policy. But in reference to setting up the policy, it did say previously:When we asked the insurance company to quote on the property, we told them that 
ALL the property, ie Buildings, Contents, Machinery & Plant was owned by [L] and 
this was rented back to [Company B].
We have included a Loss of Rental income value for all of the Buildings, Contents 
and Machinery which I think amounts to £150,000.
More recently I&T has also said:
I felt that the documentation suggested that Loss of Rental Income could fall to be 
covered under the policy as it was included in the presentation and is also included 
within the insurers schedule.
In light of Ls line of business and I&Ts comments above, it seems most likely to me 
this need was discussed. Or at the very least, I wouldve expected this need to have 
been identified by I&T during its assessment of Ls demands and needs. So, Ive 
gone on to look at the available evidence to determine what cover I&T did propose 
and subsequently arrange.
I&T has presented two property quotations it provided to insurers when seeking 
cover. Both of these documents include the following wording:
We have been approached by the above clients to obtain cover for their Machinery, 
Plant and all other contents covers situated at [Insured address]. The address is the 
home to [Company B] who are [Nature of business description].
Cover for the following items whilst owned by [L], is subsequently rented to their 
other company [Company B] for use within their own occupation.
This statement reinforces to me that cover for loss of rent for these items should 
have been considered as part of this assessment of demands and needs.
These quotations go on to list specific cover required under the policy. Under the 
heading of material damage, it includes items and values to be insured  including 
Machinery / Plant. But this cover is only be for material damage, not loss of rent.
Within the later of the two quotes, additional wording was added which read:
WE should also look to include the following;
Loss of rental income: £150,000 3 Year period
Property Owners Liability: £2,000,000 Limit of indemnity
I&T has indicated that this loss of rental income addition refers to Ls need for rental 
cover for its machinery. But this doesnt appear clear to me based on this wording 
alone. And I think a reasonable interpretation of this without further clarity would 
relate to premises as opposed to any unspecified machinery.
However, even if I agreed I&Ts intention for this quote was clearly related to the 
machinery and equipment  which I dont think it is  Id have expected the suitability 
of the policy to be subsequently identified by I&T prior to selling the policy to L.
So, Ive then looked at the demands and needs statement provided by I&T. This 
says:The cover described in the enclosed summary reflects the basis and extent of cover 
required/demanded according to the needs of [L]. This takes into account [L]s 
view/stance on risks to them which are considered acceptable and/or without 
insurance as applicable, and the overall insurance program as set out is intended to 
provide a continuing consistent approach to the management of risk within their 
business.
Underneath, it includes a heading entitled suitability statement. This says:
The Insurer noted were found to be the most appropriate taking into consideration:-
1) Level of premium.
2) Security of Insurer.
3) Terms and Conditions applied.
4) Perceived level of Insurers service and their attitude to claims handling.
From this, its unclear to me what specific questions were asked of L, the 
requirements it gathered, and how these have been met through the recommended 
policy.
This document then includes the two types of cover provided under the policy sold. 
This first includes a material damage section which lists machinery and plant, 
buildings, contents, and office computer equipment and their respective values. This 
goes on to business interruption cover, which simply says the sum insured is 
£150,000 for 12 months.
I&T has said:
The Loss of Rent does not appear to be specific to any individual item of Property 
but property located at the insured premises and used in connection with the 
business.
So, I&T has said the policy sold to L should extend to cover the rental loss for 
machinery and equipment. Ive thought about this point carefully when reading over 
the policy terms. And in essence, if I agree this particular type of cover was included 
within the policy, then Im likely to be satisfied that Ls demands and needs were met.
In relation to business interruption, the policy documentation says:
In the event of any building or other Property used by the Insured at the Premises 
for the purpose of the Business being lost destroyed or damaged by any of the perils 
specified in the Schedule during the Period of Insurance and in consequence the 
Business carried on by the Insured at the Premises be interrupted or interfered with 
then the Insurers will pay to the Insured in respect of each item stated in the 
Schedule the amount of loss resulting from each interruption or interference
Property for the purposes of the policy has the specific definition of material 
property.
In light of this definition, I see no reason why machinery or equipment could not meet 
the requirement of being deemed as property. But it seems the policy will only cover 
specific items if these are included within the schedule, including the amount of loss 
resulting from each interruption or interference.So, Ive looked at the schedule. Under the business interruption section it simply 
says:
Property Insured
Premises [Insured address]
It goes on to list the relevant operative perils and the sum insured at £150,000, and 
says the Maximum Indemnity Period for this cover is 12 months. Notably, this 
doesnt mention machinery and plant.
As a result, it seems to me that Ls machinery and equipment was left without rental 
coverage when this policy was sold to it. And Ive seen nothing to suggest this was 
drawn to Ls attention when I&T recommended this particular policy. So, Im satisfied 
I&T recommended and sold L an unsuitable policy, and without drawing any lack of 
cover to Ls attention so it could make an informed choice.
As Ive outlined, L subsequently sought to make a claim for loss of rent for machinery 
that was declined. This was because the cover it had needed wasnt in place. And 
had the cover been in place as it shouldve been, I see no reason this claim wouldnt 
have been accepted and paid.
It follows Im persuaded L wouldve most likely been covered for its losses related to 
this loss of rent for machinery.
L argues it has lost £52,000 as a result of a subsequent claim being unsuccessful. 
This was due to a particular machine being out of action for 52 weeks, and for which 
it would receive £1,000 per week in rental income. It has provided a rent agreement 
that supports this which has been shared with I&T previously.
In light of the above, Im minded to agree that I&Ts mistake in not including this 
required cover, and failure to draw this to Ls attention, means it should cover these 
losses. Taking into account the policys reference to a 12-month indemnity period, I 
think a fair solution would be for I&T to cover any loss of rent for L for up to 12 
months of losses.
Following this decision, I expect L to provide records to this Service of the financial 
losses it is seeking (£52,000), through providing its accounts across the period the 
machinery was out of use and unable to be rented and prior. These will subsequently 
be shared with I&T.
In addition, if the cover had been in place, L wouldve likely received settlement by 
this point. So, as this has meant L has been without these funds, Im intending to 
award 8% simple interest on the settlement from the date of the last rental payment 
wouldve been received, until I&T pays this to L.
I&T didnt agree with the decision, saying:
As it had ceased being the broker for L, it had no awareness of the claim or the 
dispute with the insurer and as a result its opportunity to become involved has been 
prejudiced. It believed further challenge with the insurer wouldve led to the claim 
being upheld.
It requested details and evidence of the claim and why it had taken 52 weeks for 
repairs to be completed.If the complaint was to be upheld and redress offered, it considered the correct 
method for assessing the claim would be to appoint an independent loss adjuster to 
provide an adjustment of the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
L also replied, providing further evidence and details of the history of the claim. These were 
shared with I&T.
I provided additional comments to both parties, explaining:
I&T may consider its position prejudiced, but I did not consider this to be the fault of 
L, so it didnt change anything. This is because I believed I&Ts mistake in not 
including the required cover, and failure to draw this to Ls attention has led to this 
issue occurring.
I felt I&Ts request for further detail about the history of the claim, and its request for 
the claim be assessed using an independent loss adjuster was reasonable. 
So, I explained my intended final decision would be for L to select an independent loss 
adjuster from a list of three produced by I&T. This loss adjuster would adjust the claim in line 
with the policy terms (and any directions made within my decision). Any loss adjuster costs 
would be paid by I&T and it must pay L the settlement figure to the value of the claim. And I 
explained I&T would need to pay 8% simple interest from the date the 52nd weekly rental 
payment for the machinery claimed for wouldve been received until the date of settlement. 
Alternatively, I said if I&T decided to make an offer or settle the sum requested it should 
communicate this to this Service as soon as possible.
I&T responded further. It didnt make an offer or agree to settle the claim. It reiterated its 
position had been prejudiced by the conduct of L and their current broker, and maintains it 
couldve succeeded in securing payment for the rental losses. It questioned why VAT had 
been included within the redress for the claim. And it said it wished to see the full claim file 
from Company A to be able to consider the claim fully.
And it said if these points did not change my mind, it asked if I would allow it a further 
opportunity to settle the matter before a final decision was made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint.
Even if I agreed I&Ts position had been prejudiced as it has said, Im not persuaded 
that I&Ts influence, on balance, wouldve had any material impact on the outcome of 
the claim with Company A. I say this as Im persuaded Ls machinery and equipment 
was left without rental coverage when this policy was sold to it.
In addition, I do not consider this to be the fault of L, so it doesnt change anything. 
This is because Im satisfied I&Ts mistake in not including the required cover, and 
failure to draw this to Ls attention has led to this issue occurring. 
Reference to VAT may have been included in the figures requested by L. As this 
matter will now be considered by a loss adjuster, I will leave this to them to determine 
the value of the claim.
I&T has requested the full file considered by Company A. However, this isnt something Ive seen or been provided with. If the loss adjuster requires further 
evidence to determine the outcome/settlement of the claim, it should approach L or 
Company A directly.
I&T has asked for an additional opportunity to settle the matter prior to my final 
decision. However, Im satisfied Ive been clear on my position and that it has had 
ample opportunity to informally settle the matter if it wished to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Ives & Taylor Insurances Ltd must:
Select three independent loss adjusters  and shares their details with L.
L will be able to select which of the loss adjusters considers the claim in line with the 
policy terms (and any directions made within my decision).
The cost of appointing any loss adjuster will be covered by I&T.
I&T must then pay L the loss adjusters settlement figure to the value of the claim.
I&T will also still be required to pay 8% simple interest from the date the 52nd weekly 
rental payment for the machinery claimed for wouldve been received until the date of 
settlement. This sum will account for any additional time taken in settling this claim as 
the responsibility still sits with I&T.
If I&T considers that its required by HMRC to take off income tax from the interest, it 
should tell L how much its taken off. It should also give L a certificate showing this if 
it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman