DRN-2812164
The complaint
Mrs B complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) encashed her 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) in error which has led to her losing her ISA benefits.
What happened
Mrs B held a number of investments with SJP. In June 2020 she was looking to encash her 
investment bond to fund a house purchase. SJP and Mrs B had agreed her ISA wouldnt be 
encashed, although there were discussions about transferring it to a different provider. SJP 
sent Mrs B encashment forms for both her ISA and investment bond. Mrs B signed both 
forms and both the ISA and investment bond were encashed.
Mrs B complained to SJP as she hadnt wanted to encash her ISA, she said this has now led 
to her losing all her ISA benefits. SJP acknowledged it couldve done better and accepted 
that the encashment couldve been avoided. It explained that HMRC couldnt reinstate the 
ISA so it worked out the losses Mrs B could potentially suffer if it took her ten years to 
reinvest her money back into the ISA wrapper. This included any income tax shed have to 
pay on the amount and a potential Capital Gains Tax (CGT) liability if her fund had grown at 
a set rate and she realised the gain ten years later. The loss calculated totalled £12,850.22. 
SJP also offered £500 compensation for the trouble and upset its error caused.
Mrs B didnt feel it was fair to assume she wouldve only had the ISA for ten further years 
and referred her complaint to this service. She said it was a retirement vehicle and so the 
losses should be calculated over a 30-year period. She also felt she should be refunded the 
fees and charges shes paid SJP over the time. Specifically, the Early Withdrawal Charge 
she paid to encash her investment bond.
Our investigator felt the offer SJP had made was a fair way of putting things right. She 
explained that the rates used by SJP to calculate growth and income were in line with what 
this service would award. And she confirmed that ten years to reinvest £102,000 into an ISA 
was a reasonable amount of time. She said that to calculate it over a 30-year period would 
be too speculative as so much can change over that time, and explained it appeared Mrs Bs 
circumstances had already changed within the year. The investigator felt that the charges 
had all been applied correctly and in line with the terms, and that the error in encashing the 
ISA hadnt changed this. The investigator also confirmed that there was no indication Mrs 
Bs ISA was her retirement vehicle, but in any event the redress was fair and reasonable.
Mrs B disagreed and made the following points, which have all been addressed by the 
investigator:
- SJP hasnt been clear, fair and not misleading in its communication with Mrs B, 
specifically because it sent out the wrong encashment form when it shouldnt have.
- ISAs are a good vehicle for retirement planning and this has been overlooked.
- Mrs B shouldve been classed as a vulnerable consumer and so SJP hasnt treated 
her properly.
- The ISA shouldve been repaired by SJP under the rules that HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) set out
- The exit fees for encashing the investment bond should be refunded in line with 
findings from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Although the investigator responded to these points, Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint and reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for largely the same 
reasons. The offer SJP has made is fair and reasonable and Ill go on to explain why.
Its important to note that SJP has accepted it couldve done more in this situation to avoid 
Mrs B encashing her ISA. So, Ive not addressed the multiple arguments Mrs B has made 
about whether SJP is to blame for the error, particularly her later point about SJP not 
complying with the regulatory standard to communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not 
misleading. SJP has taken responsibility for the error so this decision focuses on whether it 
has done enough to put things right.
Mrs Bs financial loss
The calculation that SJP has used in terms of potential growth and income from Mrs Bs 
investments is in line with what this service would expect. And as this point hasnt been 
contested I dont intend to set out the redress calculation. The point of dispute here is that 
SJP has worked out the loss over a period of ten years, and Mrs B thinks it should be 
worked out over 30 years. Mrs B also doesnt think her own tax allowances should be taken 
into account in the calculation. So, Ive focused my attention on this.
The loss that Mrs B faces is because around £102,000 of her money is now not held within 
an ISA wrapper. To reinvest this into an ISA it would take six years using the current annual 
allowance. SJP has noted that Mrs B fully funds her ISA each year, so it calculated her 
losses could continue over ten years instead. I think this is fair. It allows Mrs B to gradually 
reintroduce the money into the ISA wrapper.
Mrs B has said her ISA was her retirement vehicle, and so the loss should be calculated 
over 30 years. But I dont think this would be fair. Whilst in the past Mrs B has fully funded 
her ISA each year, circumstances do change. And weve already seen over the course of 
this complaint that Mrs Bs circumstances have changed. It would be speculative to assume 
that Mrs Bs circumstances would be exactly the same even after ten years have passed. 
So, it doesnt feel fair to assume she would be suffering the tax losses after this period of 
time. And I think the term of ten years allows her to reinvest her money into the ISA wrapper 
as well as adding additional funds.
Mrs B believes SJP knew that her ISA was her retirement vehicle. I havent seen evidence 
that this was the case. And in any event I dont think its that relevant here given how much 
can change over the time period. I think SJP has acted fairly in calculating the loss over a 
period of ten years  it allows Mrs B to repay the money back into the ISA wrapper over a 
period of time and pay in additional funds also.
The calculation on the potential CGT liability that Mrs B may have to pay has also been done 
to assume that the growth would be realised in ten years. I do understand that Mrs B feels 
this isnt a reasonable time because she intended to keep her ISA for far longer than that. However, for the same reasons set out above I think this timeframe is fair. Its too 
speculative to know when Mrs B may have sold shares  and I think its reasonable to have 
assumed that she couldve reinvested the money into the ISA wrapper over a ten-year 
period. So, I wont be asking SJP to calculate her potential tax losses for a longer period.
I understand Mrs B feels its not right for SJP to take into account her tax allowances when 
looking at redress. But I think its reasonable. Mrs B hasnt provided us with any evidence to 
show that she utilises her dividend income allowance or CGT allowance each year. This 
calculation is factoring in future potential income and growth and its impossible to know if or 
when Mrs B would actually realise any of these tax losses. As theres no evidence that Mrs B 
regularly utilises her tax allowances I think its reasonable to take them into account when 
determining any tax loss as this is likely putting Mrs B back in the position she wouldve been 
in had the money not been withdrawn from her ISA.
Mrs B has said that she feels SJP couldve had the ISA repaired and she doesnt feel it took 
the right steps with HMRC to do this. SJP has confirmed that it asked HMRC if it could 
reinvest the funds back into the ISA but this wasnt possible. And our investigator explained 
the reasons as to when an ISA repair is possible  but encashment of an ISA following a 
correctly completed form isnt one of those reasons. But because this hasnt been able to 
happen, SJP has calculated the potential losses Mrs B may incur with the money being held 
outside the ISA wrapper. So, its done enough to put things right.
Exit fees
Throughout the complaint Mrs B has asked for a return of the fees shes paid to SJP. These 
have included the fees incurred for her using its service but also the fees she paid to encash 
her investment bond.
Whilst there has been an error that SJP has sought to put right, this doesnt suggest that it 
hasnt provided the service Mrs B agreed to pay for. I can see that the fees shes been 
charged in relation to her accounts have been applied in line with the terms and the 
agreement she has with it. So, theres no reason for SJP to have to refund these.
In terms of the Early Withdrawal Charge, this was applied because Mrs B chose to encash 
her investment bond. It was made clear to Mrs B that it would apply and is common in the 
industry. This fee wouldve been applied whether Mrs Bs ISA was encashed or not. And as 
she intended to encash her investment bond, theres no reason for this charge to not have 
applied.
Mrs B has quoted the FCAs general principle about treating customers fairly, and some 
work it did around exit fees. But I cant see that SJP has breached this principle here. The 
withdrawal fee applies to any withdrawal from her investment bond within six years over 5%. 
This was the case here and I can see Mrs B was fully informed of it. Mrs B chose to go 
ahead with the withdrawal of her investment bond with the understanding that a fee would 
apply. So, I dont think SJP should have to refund this to her because of the issue with her 
ISA  for which she hasnt incurred an exit fee.
Trouble and upset
Its clear that the encashment of Mrs Bs ISA was unintentional, and SJP has accepted that it 
couldve been avoided. Its also clear that this has caused Mrs B a considerable amount of 
distress. I note that she still has the funds that were in her ISA, but she has lost out on the 
tax benefits, for which SJP is paying her redress. But its clear that Mrs B should be paid 
compensation for the worry that this has caused her. SJP has offered Mrs B £500 compensation for this and I think thats fair and reasonable for the worry and inconvenience 
shes experienced by her funds not being within an ISA wrapper.
Mrs B being recorded as vulnerable
Mrs B has said she should have been classed as being vulnerable, and as SJP hadnt 
recorded this she hasnt been treated correctly. Ive not seen anything that she has 
submitted to suggest that SJP shouldve recorded Mrs B as being vulnerable, or 
communicated in any other way. I understand Mrs B was going through a big change in her 
life when she instructed the services of SJP, and that there has been an error in sending her 
out an ISA encashment form when she wasnt intending to encash the ISA. But Ive already 
concluded SJP has done enough to put things right for this mistake. And there isnt enough 
to suggest SJP shouldve communicated with Mrs B in a different way, or that it needed to 
do anything further for her when it was handling her requests. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest Mrs B didnt understand the information she received. 
The only issue has been because she completed an ISA encashment form she was sent. 
SJP has already taken responsibility and said this couldve been avoided, but Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Mrs B couldnt understand the communication she was receiving from 
SJP. So, I wont be asking SJP to do anything more than its already offered to do.
Putting things right
St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer to Mrs B to 
put things right for her. So it must now pay Mrs B the following:
- £12,850.22 to cover the potential tax losses that Mrs B may incur over the next ten 
years for her funds not being within the ISA wrapper. St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc has already provided the relevant calculations to show how this has 
been calculated.
- £500 compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs B has experienced due to this 
error.
My final decision
My decision is that the offer St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc has made is fair and 
reasonable. It must now pay Mrs B that offer on her acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman