DRN-2745713
The complaint
  Mr S complains about a loan provided to him by TFS Loans Limited trading as
TFS Loans, which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
  TFS Loans provided Mr S with a loan. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Amount Monthly repayment Instalments
1 July 2018 £4000 £178.88 36
Mr S says that he feels TFS Loans failed to carry out effective affordability assessments and 
that if it had done what it was supposed to, it wouldnt have lent to him.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She concluded 
that TFS Loans should have carried out further checks. She went on to say TFS Loans didnt 
make a fair lending decision. So, she upheld Mr Ss complaint.
TFS Loans disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said it carried out proportionate checks 
and made fair lending decision when it agreed to lend and gave several reasons why it felt 
this was the case.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When TFS Loans lent to Mr S, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
TFS Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ss creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
TFS Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Mr S wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr S of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, TFS Loans had to consider Mr Ss ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did TFS Loans then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did TFS Loans carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that TFS Loans asked Mr S about his income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it verified Mr Ss income by asking for payslips. It received a number of these 
and worked out an average monthly amount. It then asked Mr S for his expenditure and says 
it also checked this through a credit search.
TFS Loans says it verified Mr Ss income as £1487.10 and then after asking about 
expenditure, it recorded an amount of £977.46. It had factored in the monthly repayment of 
the loan into this, as well as it what it calls a buffer amount and so it worked out that Mr S 
would have £197.99 in disposable income. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said about how it calculated Mr Ss disposable 
income when it agreed to lend to him. I dont think its checks were proportionate. I say this 
because I can see that the amount borrowed, the total repayment and the length of the loan 
(three years) would lead me to think on balance that it should have carried out a complete 
review of Mr Ss finances. I think this is also particularly the case, when I consider the 
adverse data that was showing on Mr Ss credit search results. I think on seeing this report, 
it ought to have asked for further information to seek a better understanding of Mr Ss 
finances. I cant see that it did do this with regards to his expenditure in particular. I think it 
should have asked for further information about this.As I cant see that this TFS Loans did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Mr S with his loan was reasonable and proportionate.
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive concluded the checks TFS Loans carried out werent proportionate and that they needed 
to do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks, because I dont think TFS Loans made a fair lending decision when it 
lent to Mr S anyway, based on what it had in front of it. I say this because when I look 
through the credit search TFS Loans carried out, I can see that it shows Mr S was having 
problems managing his finances. 
The loan payments being affordable on a pounds and pence basis, something TFS Loans 
says was the case, might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant 
regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Mr S had applied for two payday loans only weeks before he applied for his loan with TFS 
Loans, and both were still open and there were balances to repay. TFS Loans says it asked 
Mr S about these loans, and that it recorded down the reason he gave. But I think it ought to 
have given further consideration about these two payday loans alongside the other data 
provided in the search results.  
As well as the two payday loan repayments, Mr S had three open credit card accounts. I can 
see that Mr S had also declared lower balances for two of these credit card accounts to TFS 
Loans when he applied for the loan. On the credit search results that TFS Loans had in front 
of it, it showed that as well as the two payday loan balances of around £700, he also had 
incurred around £5700 on three credit cards and a small balance on an overdraft. It ought to 
have been clear to TFS Loans from this that Mr S would only have been able to consolidate 
a portion of his debt and would have needed to continue repaying some of this back as well 
as the repayments from this loan.
In addition to this, I can see that Mr S had a history of taking out short term loans within the 
previous year only to then go on and take out further loans once these had been repaid. I 
agree with our adjudicator, that the search results within the credit report showed that Mr S 
had developed a reliance on short term lending. When I think about this and also what I have 
concluded about his existing debt from the time, I think TFS Loans ought to have seen that 
Mr S was on balance, having problems managing his finances and that he was in all 
likelihood unlikely to repay this loan in a sustainable way. 
Taking matters as a whole, I think on balance that TFS Loans ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mr S was finding it difficult to repay his existing credit commitments. It was 
unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay the loan over the extended terms 
provided. I think in these particular circumstances (from the credit information on his report); 
TFS Loans should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.As Mr S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the 
loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a 
result of what TFS Loans did wrong. So, I think TFS Loans needs to put things right.
Putting things right
  In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. With this in mind, TFS Loans should:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount. 
Any payments made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr S was given 
should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr S to the date of settlement;
If there is an amount left outstanding to repay, TFS Loans should show forbearance 
and look to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S.
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ss credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
TFS Loans Limited, to put things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman