DRN-3636117
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) declined her claim under her 
buildings insurance policy following a ceiling collapse at her tenants property.
What happened
In October 2021, a ceiling collapse took place in the kitchen at a property owned and rented 
out by Mrs W. Mrs W had the property insured with Covea at the relevant time. The tenant 
forwarded photographs of the damage and Mrs W reported the matter to Covea. She 
thought the damage might have been caused due to a leak from the bathroom above. Covea 
didnt attend to view the damage but declined the claim. Mrs W engaged her own builder.
Following her claim being declined, Mrs W informed Covea that her builder had found a leak 
and he repaired the damage at the end of October 2021 at a cost of £650. Covea asked Mrs 
W to provide the leak repair invoice in order for it to review the claim. The invoice stated that 
the bathroom top pipe was leaking and that this caused the damage to the kitchen ceiling. 
Mrs Ws builder also provided Covea with a statement in which he confirmed that he thought 
the damage to have been caused by a leak over a period of months. His statement indicated 
that a nut connecting the mixer taps in the bathroom needed tightening, after which the 
dripping had stopped. Covea concluded on a review of the photographs that they didnt show 
any water damage or marks on the ceiling, or to any water damage to debris on the floor. 
Mrs W then complained to this service. She said shed taken out her building insurance 
policy in good faith. In an emergency, she said shed expected Covea to carry out a visit to 
check the damage. She wanted Covea to pay for the total cost of the damage.
Our investigator considered the matter and it was his view that Covea hadnt disproved an 
insurable event. He thought that Mrs W had provided evidence to show there was a leak 
above the damaged area and that it was more likely than not that this leak was the cause of 
the damage. He concluded that Covea should review the claim against the remaining terms 
of the policy and if it paid out as a result, to also pay 8% simple interest per year. He thought 
that Covea should pay Mrs W £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator added that part of an insurers responsibility is to properly investigate claims 
before declining them. He thought that Covea should have sent someone to Mrs Ws 
property to review the damage and ensure that it wasnt caused by an escape of water 
before declining her claim. Because it failed to do so, he considered that there was no 
evidence to support its decision to decline the claim.
As Covea hasnt responded to our investigators view, the matter has been referred to me to 
make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether Covea fairly and reasonably declined Mrs Ws 
claim. Ive considered the way in which it approached the claim and applied the terms and 
conditions of its policy. Looking firstly at the policy, the relevant provisions state: -
We will pay for will pay for.Loss or damage to buildings caused by: Water escaping from 
any fixed domestic water or heating installation
We will not pay forLoss or damage to buildings caused by: Wet or dry rot; Loss or 
damage due to any gradually occurring cause.
The Conditions in the policy, under the heading Taking Care state that: You must take all 
reasonable care to prevent loss, damage, accidents or injury and to protect and maintain the 
property which is covered by this insurance.
The Exclusions in the policy, under the heading Wear and Tear exclude cover where there 
is: Loss or damage caused by wear and tear or anything which happens gradually.
Turning to what the parties say about the matter, Mrs W was disappointed by Coveas initial 
view that the damage was caused by wear and tear and said that she would engage a 
builder to assess the cause of damage. Shed also informed Covea that it should arrange a 
visit to check the damage itself. She said that as shed paid her premiums, shed expected 
Covea to help. She said: - Just to brush it off for saying its 100 years old is not Acceptable. 
In November 2021, she wrote again: - when incident like this happens you guys find every 
opportunity to find a loop hole and avoid assisting us with anything.
Mrs W said that as a result of the incident, her tenant was unable to use the kitchen for 
safety reason as he had a young family. She said that Covea then informed her that she 
could arrange for the work to start and if appropriate, that it would reimburse her later.
Mrs W was adamant that the damage wasnt caused through wear and tear or because the 
building was old. She wanted to know on what grounds Coveas decision was based and 
asked whether it had sent a structural engineer to investigate and test its conclusion. She 
said she had a mortgage on the property and that a full survey was carried out and that no 
concerns had been raised in the full survey.
Mrs W added that water damage is often invisible and that was exactly what happened here. 
She said that if it had been visible, her tenant would have contacted her, and the issue would 
have been resolved much earlier. She didnt think it would be possible to know that there 
were water drops inside the bath, which could have built up over the months, and finally lead 
the ceiling collapse. She also posed the question as to why a certain part of the ceiling only 
which was underneath the bathroom would collapse, but everything else remained intact.
Mrs W said that she kept sending e-mails to Covea, however didnt receive a satisfactory 
response. She also complained that it referred to the wrong property in a response. She said 
shed had to use her overdraft and taken loans from her payments to pay for the damage. 
She said Coveas response had caused financial and emotional pressure and she described 
difficult personal circumstances which shed also endured at this time.
Mrs Ws builder provided a statement which indicated that when he arrived at the house; the 
kitchen ceiling was wet and there was water dripping through the ceiling. An area of ceiling 
about 3 foot by 3 foot had dropped to the floor and there were still bits of the ceiling on the 
floor. As to the leak, he said that: - the copper hot water pipe was leaking from the nut 
connecting it to the mixer tap and in my opinion there had been a slow leak for about four to 
five months. He said that he tightened the nut to stop the leak, put new silicon around the 
bath and repaired the kitchen ceiling. He also noted that some work had been carried out as the ceiling had been patched up with plasterboard; - instead of being completely removed 
and redone so I needed to use several sheets of plasterboard to match the thickness of the 
old plaster.
Finally, Mrs W complained of a lack of commitment and communication from Covea. She 
wished to emphasise that when insurance was due for renewal, she would get calls every 
week before the month for renewal, but when she was in crisis, she didnt get any support.
Covea responded to Mrs Ws complaint on the basis of the photographic and video evidence 
which shed supplied. It also contacted her builder and obtained a statement from him. It 
concluded that the construction of the ceiling was lathe and plaster and it was likely to be 
over 100 years old. It considered that the ceiling had come to the end of its natural life. It 
maintained that this why it would have collapsed; - without there being a direct cause such 
as an escape of water. It concluded that the policy didnt cover gradually operating damage. 
As to the leak, it said that at the time Mrs W reported the claim, shed said that there were no 
visible leaks and she didnt know the reason for the damage. The builders video taken on 
his first visit didnt evidence dripping water. It said that in all the images the ceiling fragments 
on the floor were dry and: - there was no sign of water or water marks on the ceiling. Covea 
stated that when the builder initially inspected the property and provided an estimate at the 
end of October 2021, hed noted water was dripping from the ceiling but: - didnt do anything 
about the dripping water on this occasion. It noted that the work to stop the leak didnt take 
place until four weeks after the incident. It then referenced the policy and the policy holders 
duty to mitigate damage caused and to prevent any leak continuing and to stop any damage 
or loss getting worse. It maintained its viewpoint that the ceiling had collapsed through age.
Covea said that after the decline of the claim and further contact by Mrs W, it had asked Mrs 
W to provide the leak repair invoice for a review of cover. It noted that Mrs W was 
disappointed with this request and felt that Covea were avoiding provision of assistance. It 
explained however that it was Mrs Ws responsibility to provide evidence in support of her 
claim as specified in the policy. 
In summary, Covea said it wasnt persuaded that the collapse of the ceiling was related to a 
water leak and said there wasnt any evidence of this. It concluded that no one-off insured 
event had taken place under the policy. It considered that the lathe part of the ceiling had 
deteriorated and effectively de-bonded, which it considered to be age-related, not as a 
result of a water leak.
My conclusions are as follows. There is conflicting evidence as to whether water was 
dripping through the ceiling following the ceiling collapse. Mrs W didnt report this to be the 
case during her initial contact with Covea, whilst the builder said this was the case when he 
visited for the first time. The photographic and video evidence does not show dripping water.
I accept that the portion of collapsed ceiling was directly under the bathroom area. The 
collapse is likely to be due to a combination of the age of the lathe and plaster and a leak 
from the bathroom through to the kitchen ceiling. There appears to be white mould on some 
of the lathes and water stains on the plaster. I agree that there is no evidence of dripping 
water, however I consider that there is evidence of damp having penetrated the ceiling. 
Im therefore satisfied on the balance of probabilities, that the predominant cause of the 
collapse is likely to be the action of a water leak on the ceiling, rather than due to its age and 
existing condition. 
As to the service provided by Covea, Im satisfied that on reporting the incident, Mrs W 
requested Covea to inspect the damage, however it decided not to take the opportunity to do 
so. I agree with Mrs W that Covea should have investigated the damage at the outset and that this would probably have avoided queries as to whether the ceiling had collapsed due to 
the action of a water leak. This would also have avoid unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. 
As to Coveas request to Mrs W for her to provide the leak repair invoice for a review of 
cover, I consider this to be a fair and reasonable request. Insurers do need to carry out 
reasonable investigations. Its also the case however that the policy holder needs to provide 
evidence in support of a claim in order to safeguard a valid claims process.
In conclusion however, I agree with our investigator that on the balance of probabilities, a 
water leak was the primary cause of the damage. Im therefore satisfied that Covea should 
review the claim against the remaining terms of the policy. I also conclude that Covea should 
pay £100 in compensation for the additional distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs W by 
its service failures.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and require Covea Insurance Plc 
to do the following in response to her complaint:
- to review Mrs Ws claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of her 
policy.
- if this results in Mrs Ws claim being upheld, to then promptly reimburse the £650 that she 
had paid to her builder.
-If upheld, to also pay interest on the cost of repairs, to be calculated from the date Mrs W 
paid this amount to her builder to the date of settlement, at 8% simple interest*
-to pay compensation in the sum of £100 to Mrs W for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
*If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman