DRN-2422866
The complaint
Mr  C complains about the administration of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) plan 
by Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD (IFA). He says it failed to carry out his 
instructions to close his portfolio.  
Mr C also complains that IFA retained his personal data after he had given instructions to 
close the portfolio and it continued to contact him via email and post. He says he was unable 
to access the online platform to check the content of the messages. Mr C also points out that 
IFA sent information to his former business address after he had moved premises in 
February 2015.
Mr C further complains that IFA refused to transfer the monies contained in his General 
Investment Account (GIA) to his new SIPP pension.
What happened
Mr C opened a portfolio with IFA in 2010, and within that portfolio were three different 
products: a personal pension, a stocks and shares ISA and a General Investment Account 
(GIA).
In 2011 Mr C made a complaint about his portfolio. IFA responded to his complaint in May 
2011 and paid £50 into his GIA in relation to the service he had received. 
On 15 January 2014 Mr Cs new provider, H wrote to IFA to request the transfer of the 
funds in his ISA. 
On 3 March 2014 a signed ISA transfer form was sent from the new provider to IFA asking 
for a cash transfer of certain funds held within the ISA.
On 20 March 2014 a further letter was sent to IFA from the new provider H requesting the 
transfer of the ISA.
On 15 May 2014 IFA wrote to Mr C to confirm the closure of his ISA. 
Mr C became increasingly dissatisfied with the service provided by IFA, so he decided to 
transfer his portfolio to another provider. 
On 10 November 2014 the new provider H sent a transfer out form signed by Mr C for the 
pension plan to IFA.
In November 2014 Mr C wrote a joint letter of instruction indicating that he wanted his 
pension plan (and that of another employee) to be transferred as cash for reinvestment.
Subsequently there were emails between IFA and Mr C regarding IFAs requirement for     
Mr C to sign its own transfer out discharge form in relation to the pension plan. 
On 23 November 2014 Mr C provided a relevant declaration for the pension plan transfer, 
acceptable to IFA, by email.
On 24 November 2014  the new provider H wrote to IFA indicating it was authorised to 
accept the transfer of the pension plan.
On 28 November 2014 IFA confirmed it had transferred Mr Cs pension plan to the new 
provider H. 
On  16 March 2015 IFA wrote to the new provider H confirming a further transfer of residual 
ISA funds had taken place. It explained these were accruals from distributions and/or 
rebates.
On 20 October 2015 a half yearly report was sent to Mr C that showed some monies 
remained in his GIA and a nil value under personal pension accrual.
On 1 July 2016 IFA contacted Mr C by email to inform him it had sent post to his business 
address which had been returned. 
On 4 July 2016 Mr C replied and indicated his preference for correspondence to be digital. 
He also informed IFA that the business had moved address and that it shouldnt post 
anything.
Further quarterly reports were produced by IFA from 2017 to 2020 which showed only the 
GIA remaining in the portfolio with a small balance of about £50. The reports were only 
accessible via the online platform and emails were sent to Mr C each time informing him that 
a notification was available.   
Mr C has explained he received a number of emails but was unable to access the online 
platform to see what they related to.
In December  2019 Mr C made a data subject access request to IFA. As a result of the 
information received Mr C complained to IFA that it had failed to follow his instructions to 
close his portfolio. 
IFA responded to Mr Cs complaint in February 2020. 
It said it had received a request to transfer his ISA to a new provider which had been carried 
out in May 2014. IFA said Mr C had started the process for transferring his pension plan in 
November 2014 and it had completed that transfer on 28 November 2014, with a further 
residual payment made in August 2015. But IFA said as it hadnt received any instructions 
for Mr Cs General Investment Account (GIA) it had remained open with a small balance of 
£50. 
IFA said as the GIA remained open it had continued to send statements to Mr Cs registered 
address. It said statements had initially been sent by post until it had received undelivered 
correspondence in 2016. IFA said it then contacted Mr C by email, and Mr C had indicated 
his preference for digital communication. It continued to send emails to inform Mr C that 
statements were available on his online platform.  
IFA said the original source of the money in the GIA was £50 it had paid as a gesture of 
goodwill in respect of a complaint by Mr C in 2011. It said this couldnt be paid into his 
personal pension because of taxation rules.  IFA said annual commission had been 
deducted from the GIA but in the circumstances, it would refund that commission. 
IFA said the £50 could be paid into Mr Cs nominated bank account upon receiving his 
instructions, or a new bank account if he provided a signed letter. It also provided copies of 
correspondence requested by Mr C. Mr C disagreed with IFAs conclusions. He said he had provided clear instructions to IFA to 
close his portfolio and it had failed to do so. Mr C said IFA shouldnt have held onto his 
information and continued to send him statements. He said he was unable to access the 
information on the online platform. Mr C also said the monies should be immediately 
transferred to his new pension and the portfolio closed.
IFA said it was unable to transfer the money to Mr Cs pension plan, but it could pay it to his 
nominated bank account, another account or send the payment by way of a cheque.
Mr C was unhappy with IFAs response and referred his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that we were only able to look at Mr Cs personal plans because the SIPPs were 
owned by individual employees rather than Mr Cs business, even though he noted the 
business had made contributions to the plans.
 
The investigator didnt think any specific instructions had been given to close Mr Cs GIA and 
transfer the money within that account. He noted express instructions had been given in 
relation to the ISA and pension plan and those transfers had taken place in 2014, with 
residual payments made in 2015. 
The investigator didnt agree that the funds in the GIA could have been transferred to Mr Gs 
new SIPP because the source of the funds was a compensation payment by IFA. So, the 
investigator said, for tax reasons, it couldnt just be transferred to the new pension plan. 
The investigator said it was the remit of the Information Commissioners Office to determine 
whether any data breach had taken place and that wasnt something he could assess, but he 
could look at the impact on Mr C of IFA retaining his information. He noted IFA had 
continued to send statements to Mr C because the GIA was still open, but it had stopped 
sending statements by post when it received notification that the post had been returned 
undelivered. The investigator also noted that IFA had contacted Mr C and he had indicated 
his preference for paperless communication. So, the investigator also took into account that 
Mr C hadnt raised any concerns with IFA ,at that point, as to why he was still receiving 
communications. 
The investigator said that correspondence had been sent to Mr Cs former business address 
but noted that fortunately there didnt appear to have been any adverse impact.  
Overall, he didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators conclusions and said his instructions to close the 
portfolio had been given in November 2017 rather than November 2014. He reiterated that 
IFA had failed to carry out his instructions and it had kept his information without his consent 
and continued to communicate with him over several years. Mr C also said that his account 
should be closed immediately. 
The investigator asked IFA to pay the monies in the GIA by way of a cheque to Mr C. The 
cheque was sent to Mr C in December 2020 and his account was closed at the same time. 
But as no agreement could be reached on Mr Cs complaint, it was referred to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C is a director of a business and has complained about IFAs actions in relation to the 
transfer of employee pension plans.  However, as has been explained by the investigator, 
because those plans are individually owned, we require the consent of each plan holder to 
consider a complaint in respect of their plan. So, I will only be considering Mr Cs personal 
plans in this complaint. 
Instructions to close Mr Cs portfolio
Mr C has explained that he gave clear instructions to IFA to close his portfolio and it failed to 
do so. In an email to IFA in February 2020, at around the time of his complaint, he said:
I have undertaken a search of our records and we have affirmed that we issued proper 
instructions to our new SIPP provider in November 2014 to transfer all holdings from 
Transact and to close the accounts.
In Mr Cs complaint form to this service he also said his instructions were given to IFA in 
November 2014.  He said:
In November 2014, as a business, we instructed Transact to close all employee pension 
accounts (SIPPS) and to transfer them to our new provider  H. This was completed 
thereafter. Or so we thought. We continued to receive random email communications over 
the years but as we no longer had access to the platform Transact (Integrafin) provided, we 
were unable to determine what these communications were or how to access them. 
Transact provided no email facility to contact them. In December 2019, having become 
increasingly annoyed with the ongoing communications, we wrote to Transact and issued 
them with a DSAR for all accounts for our employees and seeking them to explain why they 
had not closed our accounts as instructed.
In response to the investigators view Mr C said he gave instructions to IFA to close his 
portfolio in November 2017. We asked IFA whether it had any documentation from 
November 2017 with Mr Cs instructions, and IFA indicated it didnt. We also asked Mr C 
whether he had any documentation containing his instructions in November 2017. He 
referred us back to the documentation he had previously provided to our service. 
So, having carefully looked at the information Mr C provided, I consider it is more likely than 
not that any instructions given by Mr C to IFA were given in November 2014, as he has 
previously indicated in his complaint. However, I think the instructions that were given 
referred to his personal pension plan. 
I accept that Mr C expressed his dissatisfaction with the portfolio as a whole to IFA, and his 
desire to leave. On 10 November 2014 he said:
Our instructions to terminate and transfer are being sent to our new provider today.
I note that at that stage Mr Cs ISA had already been closed, albeit a small further payment 
was made to his new ISA in March 2015, in respect of residual funds.  
A signed form from the new provider was then provided to IFA dated 10 November 2014 
which referred to pension details, gave a policy number and described the scheme type as 
SIPP. There was also a letter from Mr C and a third party headed Subject -Transfer of SIPPS from Transact to H which referred to closing their SIPPs. It didnt specifically refer 
to Mr Cs GIA.
In addition, IFA specifically asked Mr C what he wished to do about the GIA, in an email on 
11 November 2014. It said: 
With regard to your GIA, if you wish to have the balance of this paid to your nominated bank 
account, please send us a secure email via Transact Online. Alternatively, you can send us 
a signed letter detailing the request.
Mr C didnt provide specific instructions in response to say where he wanted the balance of 
the GIA to be paid.  He only indicated, in general terms, that his transfer instructions had 
been provided to the new provider.
   
So, I have considered the correspondence sent to IFA from Mr Cs new provider. Its letter 
dated 24 November 2014, regarding the transfer into the new SIPP, stated it could only 
accept transfers into that new SIPP from particular schemes and it listed the schemes 
included. I consider this made it clear that the new provider wouldnt accept a transfer of 
monies that didnt come from a pension plan into the new SIPP. 
Overall, I am satisfied on balance that the instructions received in November 2014 referred 
to the personal pension. 
Source of GIA funds
I can see that Mr C made a complaint to IFA in 2011 and that as a result of that complaint it 
paid £50 as a gesture of good will into his GIA.  I am satisfied therefore that the source of the 
money was a compensation payment. And it couldnt just be transferred to a pension plan. 
For a straightforward transfer to happen, the origin of the transfer needs to be from a 
pension plan, because of the pension tax wrapper. Anything which isnt already within that 
tax wrapper would need to be paid into a pension as a new contribution, which would then 
be assessed for annual allowance headroom and then, if appropriate, subject to tax relief.
Closing the portfolio 
I do understand Mr Cs point that he wanted to close the whole portfolio because he was 
unhappy with the service IFA had provided. So, he says, in effect, he should have been able 
to close the whole portfolio rather than supplying different instructions for the different 
products involved. And I agree that it would have been more practical for Mr C to do it that 
way. 
Mr C considers that IFA made it difficult and time-consuming for him to close his portfolio. 
But I dont think it is quite as simple as he says, because there were different requirements 
in respect of those products, in particular because of the tax treatment of the funds. 
The ISA funds had to be transferred to another ISA to retain their tax benefits and so a letter 
with signed authority from the new provider was required. This was provided and the ISA 
was duly transferred and closed in May 2014. A further amount was also paid in respect of 
residual funds in 2015. IFA was entitled to do this as these were dividends and interest 
earned while the funds were on the platform, and had not yet been received at the point of 
transfer.
IFA also had to ensure that Mr Cs personal pension was being transferred to a registered 
pension scheme. So, it needed documentation from the new provider to confirm this and the 
documentation provided to IFA requested a transfer of the SIPP. It didnt request a transfer 
of the GIA.  Mr C has questioned why the GIA wasnt closed at the same time and why the funds couldnt 
simply have been transferred to his new SIPP when his personal pension was transferred. 
But as I have said, IFA didnt receive a specific instruction in relation to the GIA and IFA did 
also ask for confirmation of where the money should be paid in its email of 11 November 
2014.
Those funds had to be paid somewhere and as they werent pension funds they couldnt 
simply be transferred to the new pension. 
I can also see that IFA wrote to Mr C on several occasions during the complaints process 
offering to pay the funds into his nominated account and then, subsequently, offering to 
make the payment by cheque. It also indicated that the monies could be transferred to a GIA 
with his new provider if he preferred.  So, I am satisfied on balance in the circumstances that 
IFA made reasonable endeavours to resolve this issue. 
Continuing communication by email
Mr C has complained that IFA continued to communicate with him by email after he says his 
portfolio should have been closed.  I dont think this was unreasonable in the circumstances 
as his GIA was still open on the basis that IFA hadnt received a clear, specific instruction to 
close it. Indeed, IFA wouldve had regulatory responsibilities to keep Mr C informed of the 
amount held in his account and any fees or charges deducted from that amount.
Mr C has also complained that he was unable to access the online platform to find out what 
the emails were about. But IFA has said that it didnt restrict his access to the platform. It has 
explained that access to the platform and a password were provided to Mr C when the 
portfolio was opened but it had no record of Mr C accessing the platform.  
I appreciate that it would have been frustrating to receive emails without knowing what they 
related to, but I think that Mr C did have the option to contact IFA to ask about the emails as 
he eventually did in 2019. I also note he emailed IFA in 2016 indicating he didnt want 
contact by post and his preference was digital communication. So, if the emails had been of 
concern, he could have raised this with IFA then and questioned why he was still receiving 
any communication from IFA at all.
 
Correspondence sent to former address  
Mr C has complained that IFA were responsible for a data breach in retaining his information 
and sending statements to a former address. The Information Commissioners Office has the 
remit to assess whether or not a data breach has taken place - that is not something that I 
can determine. But I am able to consider the impact on Mr C of IFA retaining his data after 
November 2014 and sending information to his former address. I can consider the reasons 
why the data was retained by IFA, its actions when it became aware post had been sent to 
an incorrect address, and any impact on Mr C of the handling of his data. 
And having done so, Im satisfied on balance that IFA had a reason to send Mr C 
correspondence  namely to keep Mr C informed about the value of his GIA.  And, I note IFA 
sent that correspondence to his registered address. That address hadnt been updated. I 
appreciate Mr C didnt think he needed to update IFA with a new address because he believed his portfolio had been closed in 2014. However, I consider it explains why IFA 
carried on corresponding to the registered address that it held for Mr C. 
I note that IFA stopped sending post as soon as it became aware that there was an issue 
with that address, and it contacted Mr C by email to notify him. In addition, it doesnt appear 
that there has been any adverse impact from post being sent to the former address, - for 
instance information being accessed or being used by a third party. 
Summary 
While I appreciate Mr C is unhappy that his portfolio wasnt fully closed in 2014, I have to 
consider whether IFA acted incorrectly or unreasonably in the circumstances. And on 
balance, I dont consider that it did, for the reasons I have outlined. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Cs complaint against Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD is 
not upheld for the reasons outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman