DRN-3094588
The complaint
Ms W says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. Ms W said she already had a 
significant amount of debt when she took the Morses loans. So, they werent affordable for 
her and Morses shouldnt have approved them. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Ms W between 
December 2013 and July 2017. Some of the information I have been provided about the 
lending is in the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 06/12/2013 £700.00 50 04/12/2014
2 04/12/2014 £900.00 50 29/10/2015
3 26/11/2015 £500.00 52 20/10/2016
4 15/12/2016 £500.00 33 20/07/2017
5 20/07/2017 £500.00 33 29/03/2018
Ms W has borrowed a significant amount of other home credit loans with a business that 
Morses took over in 2014. I dont have details about the amounts, terms and dates of these 
loans, but I understand there were 25 of them. Neither party has any further information 
about the other lending. But I think it is likely Morses would have had some indication of the 
earlier lending from 2014 onwards. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Morses had lent 
irresponsibly when it approved loans 1 and 2. But he thought that the pattern of lending itself 
showed that Ms W was likely to be reliant on these loans by loan 3. Particularly given the 
earlier lending with the other business. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that it didnt think that three loans in 
23 months was excessive and there were some shorter breaks in the lending up to this point. 
The checks Morses did showed that this lending was affordable. 
Ms W didnt add anything to what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ws complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Ms W didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms W had with 
Morses. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans three to five 
because I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of 
Morses lending history with Ms W, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ws case, I think that this point was likely to have 
been reached by loan 3. I say this because:
Ms W had been indebted to Morses for 23 months, which is a reasonably long time in 
itself. But Morses would also have been aware that Ms W has been taking similar loans for much longer than this. And that the Morses loans were likely to be 
continuation of this earlier lending pattern. 
Morses ought to have known that Ms W was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. So Morses ought to have 
realised it was likely that Ms Ws indebtedness was unsustainable.
Ms W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out over just under four years after Ms Ws first. And she had been borrowing a 
significant time before this. Ms W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
Its likely that this lending became unsustainable a significant time before loan 3. But 
I dont have enough information to reasonably say if, or when, this was. 
I think that Ms W lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The length of time over which Ms W borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 to 5 and Morses should put things 
right.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms W from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms W loans 3 to 5.A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms W towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms W the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Ws borrowing for loans 3 to 5 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Ws credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman