DRN-3160472
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 18 July 2019, Mr and Mrs C took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker, 
which was underwritten by Great Lakes. Cover under the policy began on 13 August 2019. 
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs C booked a trip to a country Ill call F. They were due to travel 
between 11 and 20 June 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. Fs 
government announced restrictions on 16 March 2020, including a ban on travel. 
Subsequently, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against all but 
essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed wide-ranging 
restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. This government 
announcement included an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential 
reasons. Many of these lockdown restrictions remained in place in June 2020 and FCDO 
advice against all but essential travel to F remained in place until 4 July 2020.
On this basis, Mr and Mrs Cs airline cancelled their flights and so they had to cancel their 
trip. The airline refunded the cost of their flights, but Mr and Mrs C werent able to recover 
other costs associated with the cancellation of their trip. So they made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy.
Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Cs claim. It said the circumstances of it werent 
covered by the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They felt that their claim should be assessed under the Catastrophe section of the 
policy, as this provided cover for infectious disease. 
Our senior investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He didnt 
think the cancellation section of the policy covered the circumstances of the claim. And he 
considered that, in this case, the policy documents had both clearly set out the cover Great 
Lakes provided in relation to changes in FCDO advice and had been sent to Mr and Mrs C 
by the broker. He noted that the cancellation section of the policy specifically excluded 
claims which were caused by the prohibitive regulations of any government. Given the 
circumstances which led to the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Cs trip, he felt this exclusion 
would likely apply to their claim. He felt there might be some ambiguity as to the overall 
cover provided by the cancellation section of the policy. But as Mr and Mrs Cs claim wasnt 
covered regardless, he didnt think it was relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
And he didnt think the catastrophe section of the policy covered Mr and Mrs Cs situation 
either. Thats because it provides cover for a policyholder to continue their trip if they cant 
live in their pre-booked accommodation because of infectious disease. But in this case, Mr 
and Mrs C hadnt continued with their trip  theyd cancelled it. So overall, he felt it was fair 
for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. In summary, they felt that the policy was ambiguous. Thats 
because it covered changes to FCDO advice in some circumstances, but the prohibitive 
regulations clause appeared to cancel this cover out. And they still considered that the claim 
should be considered under the Catastrophe section of the policy, as they didnt think the 
senior investigator had taken into account the fact that they were continuing their trip from 
the UK.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, I think it was fair for Great 
Lakes to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Cs policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether Great 
Lakes treated them fairly. 
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs C found themselves in was completely 
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was 
purchased in July 2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt 
have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs C are limited by the terms, 
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy says that Great Lakes will pay for a policyholders unused cancellation 
costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific insured events. The 
Cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Cs policy says Great Lakes will pay such costs if a trip 
is cancelled for one of the following reasons: 
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person that you have arranged to stay 
with during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of your 
outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being 
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory capacity).
d) you or a travelling companion being made redundant, provided you qualify for a 
redundancy payment under current United Kingdom legislation.
e) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all but 
essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or 
hurricane. (Emphasis added)f) your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable, up to 14 
days before the commencement of your trip due to fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, 
subsidence, storm, flood, falling trees, riot or civil unrest, malicious damage, burst pipes, 
impact by aircraft, the Police requesting your presence following a burglary or attempted 
burglary.
g) you or a travelling companion discovering that you/ they are pregnant after the date of 
issue of this policy or the date the trip was booked (whichever was later), if the booked return 
date is within 12 weeks (16 weeks for a multiple birth) of the expected date of delivery, or 
complications of pregnancy.
h) yours or your travelling companions passport being stolen during the seven days before 
your departure date.
i) you are a member of the armed forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services and 
you have to stay in your country of residence because of an emergency or you are posted 
overseas unexpectedly.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Cs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. 
This means their claim isnt covered under the Cancellation section of their policy. 
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Cs insurance policy. But in this 
case, I dont think they held cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found 
themselves in. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C feel Great Lakes should pay their claim under the 
Catastrophe cover provided by the policy. Ive thought about this. This section of the policy 
says: 
We will pay you up to the amount shown on the table of benefits for the cost you pay, or 
agree to pay overseas, for similar travel expenses and accommodation to allow you to 
continue with your holiday or journey. We will only do this if you cannot reach or cannot 
live in your booked accommodation because of a fire, flood, earthquake, storm, lightning, 
explosion, hurricane or a major outbreak of an infectious disease. (Emphasis added). 
In this case, Mr and Mrs C didnt incur travel or accommodation expenses to allow them to 
continue their holiday. Their trip from the UK was cancelled and never began. The costs 
theyve incurred are costs associated with the cancellation of their trip. So I dont think this 
section of the policy applies to the circumstances of their claim.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Cs policy wouldnt have provided 
cover if theyd travelled against FCDO advice. There may be some limited situations where, 
if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain 
policy provisions relating to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling 
against FCDO advice, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a 
claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. 
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Great Lakes to do so 
here. I say that first because Im satisfied that the broker did email Mr and Mrs C policy 
documentation on Great Lakes behalf. This included a Key Facts Document which I think 
clearly and transparently set out that cancellation cover due to changes in FCDO advice is 
only covered in the event of earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane. 
Secondly, I note that the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Cs policy includes a specific list 
of things Great Lakes doesnt cover. This list includes the following term: 
prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the booked trip due to Government action. 
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Cs claim. But on 
16 March 2020, Fs government imposed lockdown. Travel restrictions were also imposed. 
On 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23 
March 2020, the UK government had imposed lockdown, which meant travel out of the local 
area was severely restricted. Travel restrictions remained in place in both F and the UK at 
the point Mr and Mrs C were due to travel. 
I think then that a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and 
government restrictions both in F and the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some 
degree on Mr and Mrs Cs decision to cut short their trip. So not only are the reasons for the 
cancellation of Mr and Mrs Cs holiday not covered as listed, insured events under their 
policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would apply to the circumstances of 
their claim anyway. 
It's clear Mr and Mrs C feel that the exclusion Ive mentioned contradicts the cover for 
changes in FCDO due to earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane and that therefore, the policy is 
ambiguous. However, I dont think I need to make a finding on this point. Thats because Mr 
and Mrs Cs trip wasnt cancelled due to one of these specific natural disasters  it was 
cancelled due to the pandemic. And so their claim wasnt covered by any of the the policy 
terms. This means I dont think their concerns about ambiguity here are relevant to the fact 
that the circumstances of their claim fell outside of the scope of policy cover.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Cs position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket. 
But overall, I find it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman