DRN-2663931
The complaint
Mr B complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying Ultimate 
Reward Current Account (URCA) in June 2011.
What happened
Halifax upheld the complaint and set out in its final response letter the redress to put matters 
right. This was as follows:
Total URCA fees paid by Mr B: £1,753.87
Other charges Mr B incurred as a direct result of the account fee debiting the 
account: £0.84
8% simple compensatory interest on the URCA fees, calculated from the date each 
fee was applied to the account, to the date of settlement (less £14.30 tax deduction): 
£636.49
Further URCA fees that Mr B mayve been charged before the account could be 
closed: £68
Compensation for Mr Bs distress and inconvenience: £50
All of the above totals: £2,509.20
Less
The overdraft charges Mr B avoided paying as a result of having the URCA: £2,334
Total due: £175.20
Mr B did not accept the offer. In summary this was on the basis that he felt it was unfair that 
Halifax made deductions for the savings he received as a result of having the URCA. He 
was also unhappy that Halifax took 5 months to close the account.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she thought that what Halifax had done 
to put matters right was reasonable. Mr B disagreed so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged accounts on our 
website. And Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Halifax has admitted that the account was mis-sold. I therefore have not considered whether 
it was reasonable to have sold the URCA to Mr B in the first place. Instead, I have 
considered whether what Halifax has done to put matters right is reasonable.
Mr B has said that Halifax shouldnt be able to charge a customer for a service they admit to 
having mis-sold. By this, I understand that Mr B is referring to the deduction Halifax made for 
the overdraft savings he received as a result of having the URCA. However the benefit 
deduction is not a charge for a service. Instead, the benefit deduction essentially represents 
what Mr B wouldve been charged in overdraft charges had he continued with a standard 
current account instead of having the URCA. 
This is because in 2011, Halifax charged £1 for every day an overdraft up to £300 is used on 
standard (fee-free) current accounts. Whereas a benefit of having the URCA was that 
account holders would not be charged the £1 per day overdraft usage fee on balances 
overdrawn up to £300.
So in other words, by paying the set amount of £12.50 per month (which later increased) for 
the URCA, this meant the accountholder avoided having to pay £1 per day, for each day 
they used their overdraft up to £300. And in this case, I understand Mr B heavily relied on his 
overdraft over the years he held the URCA  which explains why the benefit deduction is so 
high.
Turning to whether it is fair to make this deduction, I think it is. The reason I say that is 
because generally the purpose of any redress is to put the consumer back into the position 
they wouldve been in had the complaint event (in this case, the sale of the URCA) not 
happened. Its not intended to put the consumer in a better position than they wouldve been. 
And if this deduction is not made, then that would essentially mean that Mr B had the use of 
his overdraft for free since June 2011.
So had Mr B not been sold the URCA, Halifax calculates that he wouldve instead been 
charged £2,334 in overdraft charges, had he continued to hold a standard current account. 
And given the extent to which Mr B relied on his overdraft, this figure looks to be correct.
I can see that Mr B has also complained that it took so long for his account to be closed. 
From what I can see he discussed closing his account over the phone on 21 August 2021, 
but the account was not downgraded on that date. Mr B has provided a statement which 
shows his balance was showing as zero on the day he called. However, I understand he was 
told that there was in fact an outstanding balance of £9.96, that he needed to pay to bring 
the balance to zero.  It is my understanding that this outstanding amount was a portion of the 
monthly URCA fee that had accrued since he last paid the fee  so I cant say that what he 
was told was incorrect.
I can see that, by the time Halifax had decided to uphold the complaint, Mr Bs account had 
accrued £68 worth of monthly account fees - since Mr B had asked for the account to be 
closed. I understand that Mr B is unhappy that when the redress was credited to the URCA, 
£68 of his redress was used to cover the existing balance of account fees. Mr B has since 
asked that this amount be paid directly to him. 
However, when looking at Halifaxs calculations, it had included an amount of £68 for 
account fees you may pay before the account is changed. However, after 2 December 
2020 Mr B was not charged any further fees (one was applied to the account but then 
immediately refunded  essentially cancelling it out). Therefore, I think Halifax was not 
obliged to then pay this amount to Mr B  because it was essentially credited to the account 
to cover the fees that had accrued on the account since hed asked for it to be downgraded 
to a fee-free account.
Finally, I note that Mr B feels aggrieved that Halifax has made such a big deduction from the 
redress. Mr B has commented that Halifax should not have allowed him to remain overdrawn 
or charge him to use his overdraft, when his sole income was government benefits. Yet he 
has also told us that he does not want to complain about the overdraft at this time. I can see that during a conversation Mr B had with the adjudicator, it was explained that if Mr 
B does want to raise a complaint about the overdraft lending  and therefore whether it was 
reasonable for Halifax to have allowed him to remain overdrawn for so long  this will be 
looked into under a separate complaint. 
Therefore, I wont comment in this decision about the overdraft lending decisions made by 
Halifax, or whether the overdraft charges that have been deducted from Mr Bs redress 
should not have actually been accrued in the first place. 
Finally, I understand that Mr B did experience some inconvenience (and some expense in 
calling Halifax) as a result of this complaint. But Halifaxs redress did include £50 
compensation, which I think is not unreasonable in the circumstances.
So overall, I think that Halifaxs offer is fair as I think it puts Mr B back into the position he 
wouldve been in had the URCA not been sold to him and hed instead continued with a fee-
free account. However, if Mr B does want us to look into a complaint about his overdraft 
lending this will be looked into separately.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Bank of Scotland plc needs to do 
anything more than what it has already done, to put matters right in relation to Mr Bs 
complaint about the mis-sale of his Ultimate Reward Current Account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman