DRN-3328081
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative, complains that the advice he was given by The Royal
London Mutual Insurance Society to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension
Scheme (SERPS) was unsuitable.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 4 February 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I wasnt provisionally minded to uphold 
it were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant sections from that provisional
decision here, and it forms part of this final decision.
The original advice given to Mr M was by a firm called United Friendly Insurance. It was later 
taken over by Royal London, and as they are now responsible for Mr Ms complaint Ill refer 
to them as Royal London through this decision.
Mr M was contracted out of SERPS as from April 1989, following advice from one of 
the firms advisers. In 2015 Mr M cashed-in his plan and received a lump sum of 
£5,997.
In 2020 Mr M complained about the suitability of the advice hed been given through his 
representative. It said, in summary, that the advice to contract out was unsuitable. It 
said it exposed Mr M to the risks of a significantly lower pension; the risks including 
inflation risk, and the risks presented by the With-Profits fund which it said was high 
cost, complex and lacked diversification. The representative said Mr M wasnt properly 
informed of the risks, and if he had known of the risks he wouldnt have accepted the 
advice to contract out.
Royal London didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and it was referred to us. One of our 
investigators considered it. The investigator said that there were two key factors in 
deciding whether contracting out was favourable  the investors age and their earnings. 
He said that Mr M was below the pivotal age, and his earning were significantly above the 
lower earnings limit. The investigator said that based on the conservative assumptions 
used, it was anticipated at the time that Mr M would likely be better off at retirement by 
contracting out of SERPS.
The investigator noted that Mr M wasnt eligible to join an occupational pension scheme 
at the time he was advised. And he was invested in a With-Profits fund  which was itself 
invested in a spread of different asset classes. He said the With-Profits fund was 
structured to provide bonuses, and wasnt directly linked to stock market performance. 
He didnt think the risks presented by the fund were unsuitable for Mr M.
The investigator also noted Mr Ms representative had said the funds charges were too 
high. He said that although there may have been cheaper alternatives, the guidance for 
best advice at the time of the sale was that there wasnt necessarily any one 
recommendation that would constitute best advice at any given time. He said 
judgements on any type of investment would vary, and there was an element of 
subjectivity in most recommendations. The investigator said that based on everything 
hed seen, he thought the recommended investment was suitable.
Mr Ms representative said that Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. It said the 
issues that had been highlighted in the complaint letter hadnt been properly addressed 
in light of the applicable legal and regulatory standards which it had set out.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To give some brief background, in the late 1980s the government decided to allow 
individuals to contract out of the SERPS. It wanted to give individuals more choice, 
and shift pension provision from the state to the private sector.
Where an individual contracted-out of SERPS using a personal pension, a proportion of 
their National Insurance contributions were re-directed into a personal pension plan. One 
of the key issues was to decide what level of rebate applied. If the rebates were set too 
low then the SERPS pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment 
within the personal pension. If the rebates were set too high, then the government would 
be paying more than it needed to, to offset the cost of its SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after 
taking advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). In addition to the 
rebate level suggested by GAD, the government initially added an additional 2% 
annual incentive payment, that would apply until 1993.
The rebate percentage level was set as standard for all. This meant it was more 
attractive for younger individuals to contract-out than those who were older, as they 
had less time before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates.
As the investigator explained, the government gave no advice as to who should be 
advised to remain in SERPS and those for whom it was expected that contracting out 
would be beneficial. So the actuaries at various pension providers carried out 
comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS against the personal pension 
arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely future investment returns) to 
decide who would likely benefit. The ages where the providers advice as to whether to 
contract out or not would likely be beneficial were called pivotal ages. There was also a 
lower earnings limit which was used to determine whether an applicants earnings would 
be enough for them to benefit from contracting out.
As the investigator said, at the time of contracting out Mr M was below the relevant 
pivotal age, and his earnings were significantly above the lower earnings limit. So on the 
face of it, against these criteria, it would have appeared at the time that Mr M would likely 
to be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS.
However there were no guarantees. And as Mr Ms representative has said, by contracting 
out, Mr M was exposed to the risk that the benefits from the personal pension could be 
lower than he would otherwise have obtained from SERPS. So I agree that risk was a 
factor to consider when the adviser was considering whether it was suitable for Mr M to 
contract out of SERPS.
Mr Ms representative has referred to the advisers obligations under the LAUTRO rules; in particular to give Mr M all the information that was relevant to his dealings with him and 
use his best endeavours to enable Mr M to understand the nature of the risks involved. It 
said when advising on the suitability of the contract, the adviser was also obliged to have 
regard, in particular, to Mr Ms financial position generally, to any rights he may have had 
under an occupational scheme or SERPS, and to all other relevant circumstances. And 
its said that under the common law, the adviser also had a duty, amongst other things, to 
act with reasonable skill and care.
I accept that the adviser was acting in the context of these obligations. However the 
advice to contract out was given over 30 years ago. There were lesser regulatory 
requirements on the documentation that firms were obliged to complete at the time.
There is very limited documentation available recording the circumstances of the 
advice given. Clearly, its also very difficult to say with any reasonable degree of 
certainty exactly what was and wasnt discussed about the risks of contracting out with 
Mr M.
Royal London has provided a copy of documents it says would have been provided to Mr 
M at the time he was advised to contract out. This included a brochure issued by United 
Friendly which was headed:
Pensions
Do you know how much you could lose if you dont act before 6 April?
The brochure went onto say:
Warning
If you are an employee
If you are male aged under 45 or female aged under 40
If you are earning over £4,000 a year but not in a company pension scheme
Your pension will be cut. 
But 
If you act now you could actually be better off and it will cost you nothing.
It went onto say:
What should I do to protect my pension?
If you are a man aged under 45 or a woman under 40 you are almost certain to be 
much better off by leaving SERPS and starting a personal United Friendly pension.
Royal London has also provided a copy of a guide headed Diamond Pension Plans. 
This described how the plan worked, including that the proceeds from the plan would 
depend on the sum assured and bonuses added. And that there were certain 
expenses with the establishment and running of the plan that would be reflected in 
the amount of sum assured and amount of profits distributed in the form of bonuses.
Another guide headed Diamond Pension Plan for contracting out of SERPS said, 
amongst other things:
So you have heard all the fuss about changes to pensions and you are still not sure 
what they will mean to you.Put simply it comes down to this
1 If you do not act your pension provision will be cut 
2 If you do act your pension could be much higher
3 If you act now you can receive an additional 6 years free contributions from the 
government.
It went onto say:
Will I be better off to contract out?
Yes, just look at the illustration opposite.
If you are male aged under 45, or female aged under 40, you are most likely to be 
better off contracting out of SERPS, at least until 1993.
It seems to me that the literature that was provided to Mr M at the time that he decided 
to contract out of SERPS provided a very positive picture of the benefits of contracting 
out. I accept that it was likely Mr M was also given an illustration which LAUTRO 
required to be presented in a specified way. And this may have given an indication that 
the benefits from contracting out-werent guaranteed. However from what Ive seen, the 
literature didnt provide a balanced view of the risk of contracting out; there was very 
little to suggest that it was likely that Mr M was clearly warned about the risks of 
contracting out in the literature. And I think the literature probably reflected the nature of 
the conversations that the adviser had with Mr M. So taking all this into account, I dont 
think it was likely, on balance, that Mr M was alerted to the risks of contracting out.
However, although I dont think the firm met its obligations in that I dont think it alerted 
Mr M to the risks of contracting out, I then need to decide whether that failure was 
material to Mr Ms decision. In other words, is it likely that Mr M would have made a 
different decision if he had been told of the risks?
For the reasons I explained above, at the time that Mr M contracted-out in 1989 it was 
thought  using conservative assumptions  that given his age and level of earnings, he 
would likely be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS. Mr Ms 
representative has raised concerns about the suitability of the With-profits fund, but for 
the same reasons as outlined by the investigator, in my view it was suitable.
So in general terms, I think at the time it would have been reasonably considered that Mr 
M would likely improve on the benefits that he would otherwise get from SERPS by 
contracting out. Mr M was in his mid-thirties and the pivotal age was 45. He had a 
number of years to retirement. And his earnings of around £9,000 were significantly 
above the lower earnings limit. Contracting out wasnt a permanent decision, and Mr M 
could contract back into SERPS in the future.
Mr M wasnt guaranteed to be better off by contracting out of SERPS. There was some 
risk involved. But in my view the risk presented to Mr M would have appeared to be 
relatively low at that time. My understanding is that Mr M was only contracted out of 
SERPS for four years  albeit this wouldnt have been known when he contracted out. 
But no evidence has so far been presented to show that Mr M has actually suffered a 
loss and, if so, to what extent.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mr M was completely risk averse when he 
decided to contract-out. Taking all the above into account, I dont think, on balance, its more likely than not that Mr M would have decided not to contract out of SERPS if the 
level of risk had been explained to him in the context as I have set out above.
Overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think contracting out was unsuitable 
for Mr M. And I dont think its likely he would have made a different decision had the 
risks been explained to him.
For the reasons I outlined above, my provisional decision was not to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
I asked Royal London and Mr M to provide any further evidence and arguments that it 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr Ms representative said, in summary, that just because certain assumptions were 
commonly used at the time didnt mean it was correct to use those assumptions, or that 
those assumptions made contracting out of SERPS a low risk activity. It said the 
assumptions used in the 1980s and 90s were extremely unlikely to be borne out in reality in 
the 2000/2010s. It said contracting out came with a high risk that the benefits from the 
personal pension would not match SERPS. And if Mr M had been properly informed of the 
risks he wouldnt have wished to take it.
The representative said that the information Royal London had given to Mr M was highly 
misleading, and put undue pressure on him to contract out of SERPS. It said the risks of 
contracting out werent presented in a fair and balanced way. It said Mr M, who was already 
unlikely to have substantial retirement income, was if anything less likely to want to 
jeopardise what little he already had. It said it was a practical certainty that Mr M had 
suffered losses, however this was irrelevant to the outcome of the complaint.
Royal London didnt provide any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision not to uphold  
Mr Ms complaint. 
As I said in that decision, I think the literature that was provided to Mr M at the time that he 
decided to contract out of SERPS provided a very positive picture of the benefits of 
contracting out. And, like Mr Ms representative, I dont think it provided a balanced view of 
the risks involved and would have led Mr M towards contracting out.
However, having decided that, I then need to decide whether that failure was material to    
Mr Ms decision. In other words, was it likely that Mr M would have made a different decision 
if he had been told of the risks?
Mr Ms representative has said the assumptions which were used as a basis to decide 
whether it was likely to be benefical to contract out of SERPS were never likely to be borne 
out, and that contracting out came with a high risk that the benefits from the personal 
pension would not match SERPS. 
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after 
taking advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). In addition to the 
rebate level suggested by GAD, the government initially added an additional 2% annual incentive payment that would apply until 1993. The rates of assumed returns 
used in illustrations were set by the regulator. This was an independent view of what 
was considered to be reasonable at the time. Whilst they may now appear to have 
been overly optimistic, this is only seen with the benefit of hindsight. 
A forecast that the Bank of England base rate would fall to less than 1% for over a 
decade, and fall to 0.1% for a period, would likely have been considered by most 
commentators in the 1980s to be unrealistic. But economic and financial conditions 
can change significantly, and whats reasonable has to be considered in the context of 
the time. I dont agree that the assumptions were unreasonable.
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr M was well below the pivotal age at time he 
contracted out, and his earnings were well above the lower earings limit. At the time, I 
think there would have been a reasonable expectation that Mr M would likely be better 
off by contracting out of SERPS. And I dont agree it would have been thought there 
was a high risk that Mr Ms benenfits would be lower. There was a risk that they could 
be lower as I have said. But in my view, given reasonable expecations at the time, it 
wouldnt have been considered a significant risk.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mr M wasnt willing to take any risk. Taking all 
the above into account, I dont think its more likely than not that Mr M would have 
made a different decision had he been told he would likely be better off by contracting 
out, that there was a risk, but it was a relatively low risk. 
Therefore for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think contracting out was 
unsuitable for Mr M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman