DRN-2441812
The complaint
Mr M complains that Esure Insurance Limited (Esure) have mishandled his motor 
insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Id like to assure Mr M that I have considered all the submissions he has made in respect of 
his complaint. In summary, Mr M was involved in an accident that resulted in his vehicle 
being submerged nose down in floor water. He says that Esure unreasonably declared his 
vehicle as a total loss without properly assessing the damage, and then left it to deteriorate 
further in the flood water for six days where it incurred further damage. Mr M is also unhappy 
with the way the insurer handled the claim, as he says he had to regularly chase them for 
any progress to be made and was also given incorrect information.
In terms of damage being sustained to a vehicle, the policy terms and conditions state: 
We will:
pay to repair the damage or
replace whats been lost or damaged if its more cost effective than repairing it; or
pay to settle your claim

Things you need to know
Well decide which method we use to settle your claim.
So, the policy terms make it clear that Esure can choose how to settle the claim, including 
whether the vehicle should be repaired or written off as a total loss. The insurers engineer 
assessed the damage and considered that it would be uneconomical to repair given that it 
was a 17-year-old vehicle that had already been declared as a Cat C total loss in the past. 
As a result, they opted to settle the claim by paying the vehicles market value of £1,051.
Mr M doesnt believe it was reasonable for Esure to write the vehicle off based on the 
engineers assessment of the damage alone, and due to the fact that he was subsequently 
able to have it repaired by his mechanic for £2,671. I understand he doesnt think it could be 
fully inspected due to the way in which the vehicle was submerged in water. But with 
respect, Mr M is not an independent engineer (and even if he was, he couldnt act as an 
expert in his own cause), and theres no contrary or persuasive evidence to suggest that 
Esures assessment of the vehicle being uneconomical to repair was incorrect. The insurer is 
entitled to rely on the advice of their appointed experts in this regard unless it would have 
been unreasonable for them to do so (for example, where an experts assessment is patently 
wrong). But as Ive already set out, theres no persuasive evidence to suggest that it was 
patently wrong, so I do not think Esure have acted unreasonably by relying on the engineers 
assessment to deem the car as a total loss.
I appreciate that Mr M was subsequently able to repair the vehicle for £2,671. But this does 
not mean that Esure were wrong to declare it as a total loss, or that it couldnt be repaired. It 
simply means that in the circumstances, the engineer was of the opinion that the vehicle was 
uneconomical to repair given its market value. It is typical industry practice that an insurer 
will pay the market value of a vehicle if the cost of repair would likely exceed 60-70% of the 
market value (i.e. around £700 in this instance). Mr M says that the cost of repairing the 
vehicle wouldve been cheaper if it had been recovered sooner by Esure, instead of being 
left for six days submerged in water. But Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that 
repairs could have been carried out at less than £700 even if the vehicle had been recovered 
a day or two after the accident. 
Mr M says his mechanic concluded that the car being left submerged in flood water had 
likely worsened the damage and therefore the cost of the repairs  and I accept this is 
possible. I asked our investigator to contact Mr Ms mechanic, who provided a helpful 
overview of the situation. In summary, the mechanic estimated that if the car had been 
recovered sooner, it may have cost around half the amount Mr M paid to repair it  i.e. 
around £1,300. But Im afraid this still exceeds the market value of the vehicle. So even if the 
car could have been recovered sooner, it still does not appear it wouldve been economical 
to repair it rather than paying the market value.
 
I understand Mr M wanted the car to be salvaged and repaired as it held sentimental value 
to him. But the policy allows Esure to decide which course of action to take based on the 
likely costs involved of each option and, in this instance, they chose to deem the car as a 
total loss and pay its market value, which is the insurers prerogative. And given that the cost 
of repairs wouldve likely exceeded the vehicles market value, I dont think this was an 
unreasonable course of action for them to take. Esure told Mr M early on that they would be 
treating the car as a total loss and therefore would not be authorising repairs. So I do not 
consider theyre under any obligation to now pay the cost of the repairs that Mr M 
subsequently instructed. 
I appreciate that Mr M may have had to pay more to repair the vehicle as a result of it being 
left in flood water for six days. But the reasons for the recovery taking longer than expected 
seem to have been largely unavoidable. The insurer has said that their recovery agents were 
unable to attend the vehicle due to issues such as severe weather, the road being closed, 
and having to prioritise other roadside accidents at the time. Mr Ms mechanic has also 
explained that specialist lifting equipment was required to lift the vehicle out of the ditch, but 
that there was only one company in the county that had this equipment, which also delayed 
matters. I acknowledge Mr Ms reasons as to why he thinks it couldve been recovered 
sooner, and perhaps there is scope to say that it could have been. But I cant ignore that 
there were several factors at play here that made the recovery more difficult, so Im not 
persuaded the delay in lifting the car out of the water was ultimately avoidable. Therefore, 
Im not satisfied it would be fair and reasonable to require the insurer to pay the additional 
cost of his repairs  particularly when theyd already told him they wouldnt be covering such 
costs.
Mr M is also unhappy with the service he received from Esure and submits they should pay 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I appreciate that the service 
provided by the insurer could have been better in terms of keeping him updated, and I also 
acknowledge that he was given incorrect information on a few occasions. However, Esure said it has waived a £200 surcharge from the excess that wouldve otherwise been payable 
by Mr M by way of compensation for their failings. I understand this does not represent the 
full amount of excess Mr M had to pay but, nonetheless, I consider this to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances. Mr M says this is inadequate and is also claiming for 
loss of earnings as he had to spend time chasing the insurer. But while I appreciate the 
frustration this must have caused him, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
Esure to cover his loss of earnings, as most insurance claims will entail a certain amount of 
time and administration to be dedicated to their progression. 
However, I do think that the insurer has caused Mr M distress and inconvenience as a result 
of the service they provided, for which I consider the £200 already offered to be fair 
compensation. So, I will not be asking Esure to make any further award.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman