DRN-3208113
The complaint
Mr P complains about the transfer from his group personal pension (GPP) to another 
pension scheme in 2013. Mr Ps GPP was with Clerical Medical, which has since been 
renamed Scottish Widows Limited (SWL). For ease, I will refer to SWL in my decision.
Mr P says SWL failed in its responsibilities in allowing the transfer. It has since come to light 
that Mr P, and many others like him, was the victim of a pension liberation scheme  
pension liberation being the process by which individuals access their pensions before the 
age of 55. This can lead to a severe tax charge and is sometimes linked with fraudulent 
activity and high-risk investments. Entire pensions can be lost as a result, which looks to be 
the case with Mr Ps pension. Mr P says he wouldnt have transferred, and therefore 
wouldnt have lost his pension savings in this way, if SWL had acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory responsibilities when he requested the transfer.
What happened
In 2013, Mr P says he was looking to consolidate a number of his pensions into one 
arrangement. He found Fast Pensions Ltd to help him with this following an online search. 
He says Fast Pensions appeared to have had the right regulatory permissions and were 
offering a competitive return for his pension. Mr P was 42 at the time.
On 2 February 2013, Mr P signed a SWL form to authorise the transfer of his GPP. The 
receiving provider was recorded as Fast Pensions. He also signed SWLs Transfer 
Document which recorded the receiving scheme as being the Leafield Retirement Plan and 
the administrators as being AC Management and Administration Limited (ACM). This form 
was undated.
On 13 February, ACM wrote to SWL enclosing the information required by SWL to proceed
with the transfer. This included Mr Ps signed documents and a certificate from HMRC 
showing the Leafield Retirement Plan had been registered. ACMs covering letter was date-
stamped as being received by CM (presumably Clerical Medical) on 14 February. On 
18 February, SWL wrote to Mr Ps home address to say a transfer payment of £17,435 had 
been made to ACM in relation to the transfer and that Mr Ps GPP had been terminated.
Based on pension statements provided to Mr P by Fast Pensions shortly after he transferred,
Mr P transferred around £55,000 in total to the Leafield Retirement Plan, including the
£17,435 from the SWL GPP.
Its not clear what Mr Ps transferred pension funds were invested in. Fast Pensions 
indicated that the trustees of the scheme would have discretion to invest in equities, bonds,
property and cash. Mr P has referenced overseas investments in conversations with us. 
For reasons that I will come on to, I consider it likely that Mr P was invested in illiquid, high
risk, investments.
In 2014 Mr P tried to transfer away from the Leafield Retirement Plan but was prevented 
from doing so by Fast Pensions. From around 2016 Mr P says he started to notice he was 
no longer receiving pension statements from Fast Pensions. He was in contact with Fast 
Pensions in 2017 and 2018 about transferring away. The transfer never happened, not least
because Fast Pensions wasnt cooperative on the matter.
In 2018, the High Court wound up Fast Pensions Ltd (and five other related firms) in the
public interest. This followed an investigation by the Insolvency Service which found that:
At least £21 million had been invested into 15 schemes (including the Leafield Retirement 
Plan).
The people affected were often persuaded to transfer following cold calls and because 
they were attracted to the loans they were told they could get if they transferred.
If advice was given, it was inadequate.
There was a lack of disclosure on the high risk, illiquid, nature of the schemes 
investments.
Transferred funds were misused. At least £4 million was used to pay commissions, with 
the remaining funds largely used to make loans to companies and other entities which 
appear to have been connected with Fast Pensions and FPST (the trustees of the 15 
pension schemes).
The 15 pension schemes identified  including the Leafield Retirement Plan  had an 
independent trustee appointed in 2018 by The Pensions Regulator (TPR).
Mr Ps recollections of what happened arent particularly detailed. He says he approached 
Fast Pensions (rather than the other way around) and that he didnt receive any cash 
incentive for transferring. He says his motivation for transferring was to consolidate his 
pensions. So, at face value, some of the circumstances behind Mr Ps transfer appear to 
differ from those identified through the Insolvency Services investigation. Nevertheless, 
Mr P has been caught up in all of the above and the value of his pension is therefore 
uncertain.
In 2019, Mr P complained to SWL about its decision to allow him to transfer. SWL didnt 
think it had done anything wrong. Mr P, who is represented by a firm of solicitors, referred 
his complaint to us. His representatives said, in summary, the following:
Mr Ps transfer was little more than a pension liberation scam.
SWL breached the implied terms of reasonable care and skill under the Supply of Goods 
and Services Act 1982 by allowing Mr P to transfer into a pension liberation scheme 
rather than an appropriate, legitimate, scheme.
SWL breached its duty of care to protect Mr P from an unauthorised use of his pension.
SWL should conduct thorough due diligence on any pension transfer.
SWL had a duty of care under common law and as trustee of the pension fund to act in 
the best interest of Mr P  which it didnt do because it didnt undertake sufficient due 
diligence.
SWL breached The Trustee Act 2000.SWL breached Financial Services Authority (FSA) principles to: act with skill, care and 
diligence; pay due regard to the interests of its customers; pay due regard to clients 
information needs; and protect clients assets.
SWL breached TPR code of practice.
Particular reference was made to the following:
The Occupational Pensions Regulatory Authority (OPRA) issued a warning in 2002 
regarding an increase in pension liberation scams.
In February 2012, TPR, the successor to OPRA, published a warning, and factsheet, 
about pension liberation. The FSA supported this campaign.
On 14 February 2013, TPR launched its scorpion campaign (so called because of 
the scorpion imagery used in its materials) which provided guidance to pension 
schemes about pension liberation, warning signs to look out for, and leaflets to be 
provided to members.
SWL shouldnt have proceeded with the transfer so quickly. Instead it should have waited 
just one week in order to post to Mr P the OPRA warning or information from TPRs 
scorpion campaign.
It took less than 15 minutes to find out that Fast Pensions and ACM were incorporated 
shortly before Mr Ps transfer. Similarly, the Leafield Retirement Plan had been registered 
with HMRC just a few weeks before the transfer.
Mr P wasnt working for, and was geographically distant from, the sponsoring employer.
SWL should have told Mr P to seek independent financial advice.
Mr P lost his entire pension as a direct result of SWLs actions.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In response, Mr Ps representatives said 
industry concern about pension liberation was long standing, even at the time of Mr Ps 
transfer, so SWL should have known that it needed to take extreme care. They also 
repeated some of the factors that SWL should have been alive to such as Mr P not working 
for the sponsoring employer of the scheme he was transferring to. They say SWL could 
have, and should have, asked Mr P to take financial advice because doing so wouldnt have 
impacted on his right to transfer. And they referred back to the FSAs principles, as outlined 
above, which they say SWL didnt adhere to. They asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I concluded SWL hadnt done anything wrong. I said: 
What were the relevant laws, rules, guidance and good industry practice?
To decide on Mr Ps complaint, its helpful to review the environment SWL was operating in 
at the time with regards to transfer requests and pension liberation. Specifically, its worth 
noting the following:
The Pension Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the right 
to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another personal or 
occupational pension scheme.Personal pension providers, like SWL, are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(the FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs predecessor, the FSA. 
There has never been any FSA/FCA rules that specify the checks providers need to do 
before someone can transfer from a personal pension.
TPR launched its scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign was 
to raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance on dealing with 
transfer requests in order to prevent liberation activity happening. Several bodies 
including the FSA supported this initiative so Im satisfied it was relevant to personal 
pension providers.
The campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs present in a 
number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being transferred 
overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and pressure 
to complete a transfer quickly.
It suggested transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as receiving 
occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple 
transfer requests. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist 
schemes could use. This checklist suggested asking the member for copies of 
promotional materials, emails or letters about the scheme and asking for any further 
details about how they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been 
described to them. If those enquiries established the member had been advised, it went 
on to suggest checking whether the adviser had been registered with the FSA. Where 
transferring schemes had concerns, they were encouraged to consider delaying the 
transfer and to seek legal advice.
The scorpion campaign also included:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was 
requested. The insert warns about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, 
cold calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences 
of accessing pensions early.
A Pensions Advisory Service leaflet which gives more information, including real life 
examples, about pension liberation.
Prior to February 2013, and the launch of the scorpion campaign, personal pension 
providers often just checked that the receiving scheme was registered with HMRC and 
would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer was, in some way, 
suspicious. However, ahead of the scorpion campaign, its evident the FSA, and other 
regulatory bodies such as TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned about the 
dangers of pension liberation schemes:
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of 
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to 
schemes that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax 
and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as 
a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the 
fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was 
working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged 
affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and 
had closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. 
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow. 
The warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold-callers that 
encouraged people to transfer in order receive cash or access a loan.
The FCA Handbook contains 11 principles that firms must adhere to. Firms must always 
apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance in an area are absent or 
evolving  as was the case with pension liberation. I consider the most relevant principles 
in relation to transfer requests and pension liberation to be the following:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
In addition, I consider COBS 2.1.1R to be relevant here. It states that a firm must act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
What does this mean for Mr Ps transfer?
TPRs February 2013 scorpion campaign:
Mr P signed paperwork to confirm he wanted to proceed with the transfer on 2 February 
2013. The information SWL needed for it to allow the transfer was sent to it on 13 February. 
Screenshots of SWLs systems show a deal date  presumably when Mr Ps investments 
were sold  of 14 February and an exit date of 15 February. SWL then confirmed the 
transfer had gone through in a letter written to Mr Ps home address on the next working day
(18 February, the previous two days being a weekend).
Given the above, the paperwork to initiate the transfer was completed before the launch of 
the scorpion campaign. The disinvestment of Mr Ps funds appears to have taken place on 
the day of the campaigns launch. The exit date was the day after. And SWL wrote to confirm 
the transfer had gone ahead on the next working day after that.
Mr P says SWL could have waited just one week in order to send out a TPR scorpion 
leaflet to Mr P. But for this (and any other aspect of the guidance) to have happened, SWL 
would have needed to have read and absorbed the guidance and taken a policy decision to 
temporarily delay all transfers in, at most, just two working days (14 February and 
15 February). I dont think SWL could, reasonably, have been expected to have responded 
to TPRs guidance so quickly.I say this because the scorpion campaign is generally considered to represent a step-
change in the level of due diligence expected of schemes when considering transfer 
requests. Mr P, through his representative, makes the same point:
The Scorpion Warning of 14 February 2013 has previously been regarded the turning
point in the duty of care owed by the pension industry to consumers. [my emphasis]
Expecting SWL to have responded to such a significant turning point in approximately 48 
hours isnt, in my view, fair and reasonable. I may have thought differently if the FSA had 
previously formally consulted on the guidance, in which case I may have expected all 
providers to have been ready for the changes as soon as they were announced. But that 
doesnt apply here. Likewise, I may have thought differently if the FSA had given an 
indication that significant new guidance was imminent. But that doesnt apply here either. So 
I dont think I can reasonably say SWL could have, or should have, responded in the very 
short amount of time it had. So I will proceed on the basis that SWL couldnt reasonably 
have considered the scorpion guidance and applied it in this particular instance.
Mr P also says SWL could have waited a week to send the OPRA warning. But even if SWL 
had been in the position to respond to the scorpion guidance, sending a warning from OPRA 
wasnt part of that guidance. And sending a warning from OPRA has never otherwise been a 
requirement. So Im satisfied SWL hasnt done anything wrong in not sending it.
What did SWL do  and should it have done more?
The scorpion campaign marks an inflection point because it introduced for the first time 
guidance aimed at preventing liberation fraud for pension schemes dealing with transfer 
requests. But even before then, personal pension providers werent operating in a vacuum. 
They had to follow relevant laws and the FSAs principles. Regulators were also making their 
concerns about pension liberation schemes clear well before they issued formal guidance. 
So providers also had to be aware of the emerging threat of pension liberation and be
familiar with regulator announcements in this area. I will consider all these points in my 
decision. I will also consider what good industry practice was at the time.
When Mr P transferred, providers would typically check that the receiving scheme was 
registered with HMRC and would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer 
was, in some way, suspicious. SWL did check that the receiving scheme was registered with 
HMRC because it received a HMRC certificate to that effect as part of Mr Ps transfer 
papers. But the HMRC certificate showed the Leafield Retirement Fund was registered on 
22 January 2013, just a few weeks before the transfer. Mr P says this should have alerted 
SWL to the potential dangers of the transfer.
Transferring to a scheme that had only just been registered wasnt a widespread concern at 
the time. So I dont think this, in isolation, would have necessarily caused SWL to have been 
concerned by the transfer request. And I think this conclusion is supported by the activity of 
the regulators in this period. Clearly, the FSA and TPR were becoming increasingly 
concerned about liberation schemes in the years prior to Mr Ps transfer. However, their 
response was primarily aimed at closing liberation schemes and raising consumer 
awareness about cold calls, accessing pension funds early, overseas investments and 
scams. Important though this activity was, it doesnt point to transferring to a recently 
registered scheme as being something transferring schemes needed to be mindful of when 
dealing with a transfer request.
There was very little other information in Mr Ps transfer papers. So, in the absence of 
anything else that was potentially suspicious, SWL allowed the transfer to proceed. This was 
in line with industry practice at the time. But in making my decision I consider it appropriate (as per DISP 3.8.1R) to take into account what good industry practice was at the time 
(which, in turn, would be closely aligned to the FSAs principles). So given all this, I would 
have expected a provider to have done more than just check the receiving scheme was 
registered with HMRC and react to the information it was given if it was, in some way, 
suspicious. A provider needed to be more proactive, monitoring its own transfer activity and 
keeping abreast of industry intelligence in order to identify potentially suspect schemes. I am 
aware of providers who did this.
I dont know if SWL was operating in this way. But if it had been, Im not aware of information 
that SWL should reasonably have known about the transfer, or the organisations involved in 
it, that would have prompted it to investigate the transfer in more detail. Im aware of one 
provider that put ACM on its own internal watchlist from 1 March 2013  but that was after 
Mr Ps transfer. And problems relating to Fast Pensions only entered the public domain 
much later. So with good industry practice in mind, Im not persuaded SWL had reason to 
investigate the transfer further.
Mr P also points to a number of other factors that he thinks should have alerted SWL to 
potential problems with the transfer, specifically:
Mr P didnt work for, or even live near, the receiving schemes sponsoring employer which 
would suggest it wasnt a genuine occupational pension scheme as it was purported to 
be.
Fast Pensions and ACM had only recently been incorporated.
Mr P wasnt receiving regulated financial advice.
With regards to the first two points, similar considerations apply as above, which is that in 
the period running up to Mr Ps transfer these issues werent considered a cause for concern 
for providers. This was, after all, a rapidly emerging issue. So individual providers, who 
would only have seen a small proportion of all activity in this area, wouldnt necessarily have 
had a comprehensive enough view of pension liberation schemes to have appreciated what 
the potential risk factors were before the scorpion guidance  which did begin to catalogue 
these risk factors  was issued. Of course, some providers may have had an awareness of 
specific liberation risks ahead of the scorpion guidance because they may, for example, 
have received a sudden increase in transfer requests to a previously unknown scheme. But I 
havent seen anything that makes me think SWL had, or should reasonably have had, this 
sort of awareness.
Furthermore, SWL didnt know about Mr Ps employment situation or when Fast Pensions or
ACM was incorporated as this information wasnt in Mr Ps transfer papers. So SWL would 
only have found out this information if it had investigated the circumstances behind Mr Ps 
transfer more closely. For the reasons given above, I dont think SWL had grounds (or 
should have had grounds) to make those enquiries given the information it had (or should, 
reasonably, have had).
With regards to taking financial advice, its worth noting that Mr P was entitled to transfer his 
pension and to do so without financial advice. So I dont think it was incumbent upon SWL to 
ask Mr P to seek financial advice. And, by extension, even if SWL had known Mr P was 
transferring without advice, Im not persuaded this would have, or should have, been a 
warning to SWL that the transfer was in some way worthy of further investigation.TPRs 25 February 2012 warning on pension liberation:
Approximately a year before Mr Ps transfer, on 25 February 2012, TPR issued a warning 
about pension liberation. Ive covered what this warning said previously. Mr P has argued 
that SWL ignored what TPR said:
In blindly complying with the transfer request without undertaking sufficient due diligence or
discussing any concerns with [Mr P], Scottish Widows have ignored the advice of their 
regulators which was known well before our clients request to transfer.
As Mr P correctly points out, the FSA was one of the bodies that participated in the 
campaign so it is something that SWL, which was regulated by the FSA, should reasonably 
have been aware of. But as I said previously its apparent that the campaign was designed 
to raise public awareness about pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for 
transferring schemes to follow. And the warnings highlighted in the campaign related to 
websites and cold-callers that encouraged people to transfer in order receive cash or access 
a loan. Neither of these applied to Mr P whose motivation was consolidation of his pension 
funds. So even if SWL had known what was behind Mr Ps decision to transfer  which it 
didnt  its doubtful the February 2012 campaign would have prompted a different approach 
on SWLs part.
So Im satisfied the February 2012 campaign doesnt change anything here. The campaign 
didnt introduce new steps that SWL had to follow and the focus of the campaign didnt have 
particularly close parallels with Mr Ps situation anyway.
The FSA principles:
Mr P says SWL didnt adhere to the FSAs principles.
For the reasons given above, I dont think SWL had, or should reasonably have had, cause 
for concern about Mr Ps transfer request. By extension, this means Im satisfied the 
principles didnt confer on SWL an obligation to have taken additional steps with regards to 
his transfer request.
In coming to this conclusion, I have considered the scorpion guidance and whether this was 
written with reference to existing FSA rules and presented as a reminder of existing 
obligations. But its apparent the scorpion guidance marked a change in approach by TPR 
given that it introduced, amongst other things, new information for scheme administrators to 
give to members requesting a transfer, a checklist to help administrators identify potentially 
dangerous liberation schemes and direction on the steps to take when liberation concerns 
were present. It cant, therefore, be considered to have been (and wasnt presented as 
being) a reminder or codification of what personal pension providers should always have 
been doing to meet their existing regulatory obligations as set by the FSA (in its principles for 
example). So the scorpion campaign isnt a relevant factor for me to consider when 
assessing what SWL had to do to meet the FSAs principles in this particular case.
Final thoughts:
Mr P said he thought SWL had breached the Trustee Act 2000 and the Supply of Goods and 
Services Act 1982 by allowing Mr P to transfer into a pension liberation scheme rather than 
an appropriate, legitimate, scheme. However, Im satisfied that the two Acts Mr P refers to 
dont confer on SWL obligations relevant to this complaint that I havent already considered.It follows from the above that I dont intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I recognise how 
disappointing this will be for Mr P and I sympathise with the position he now finds himself in. 
But this complaint is against SWL and, for the reasons given above, Im satisfied SWL acted
fairly and reasonably, in line with what was required of it at the time.
Both parties told us that they had nothing further to add in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has commented on my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
findings. Therefore, for the same reasons as given in my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman