DRN-2232699
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store
card. AXA France IARD (AXA) is responsible for this complaint. So, Ill refer to AXA as the
seller to keep things simple. Ms P says AXA mis-sold her the PPI policy on her store card.
Background 
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a store card in 2003.
The PPI covered Ms P if she was unable to work because of accident, sickness or
unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. AXA disagreed so the
complaint has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 24 August 2020, I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Neither AXA nor Ms P made any further comments. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Currently, I dont think Ms Ps complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Ms P that the policy was optional and get her consent before
PPI could be applied to the account.
Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement Ms P signed. In it, there was a section to add PPI. I
can see the box requesting cover has been signed. There was nothing on this form
indicating that she had to take the PPI, so the box couldve been left it blank if she didnt
want it. Overall, I think AXA made it clear that PPI was optional and Ms P agreed to have it
knowing she had a choice, even though she may not remember that now.
AXA didnt advise Ms P to take the PPI  so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But it
did have to give her enough clear information so she could decide if she wanted to take it.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But Ms P was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any
of the main things the policy didnt cover. For example, she told us he was employed and
didnt suffer from any medical conditions, so she wouldnt be affected by anything in the
terms about known health issues or unusual working arrangements.
Ms P told us she had more than six months sick pay provided by her employer  based on
this, our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. He felt that AXA hadnt given
Ms P clear enough information about what the policy cost. And, because of this, if Ms P had
understood the true costs of the policy, she wouldnt have bought the policy.
But based on what I know about Ms Ps circumstances, I think the policy couldve been
useful to her. Although Ms P says she had more than six months sick pay provided by her
employer, I understand shed only been employed for around two years (at most) when she
took the PPI. From what we know of the industry Ms P worked in and her tenure, I think she
wouldve had significantly less sick pay than she believed. Although its likely her employer
provided significant sick pay, thats likely only offered to employees who have completed
more years of service with them  and I have to assess Ms Ps circumstances at the time
she took the PPI.
Ms P also hasnt provided details or evidence of any other means she mightve had available
to help her make her repayments if shed found herself unexpectedly out of work because of
illness, injury or unemployment. And this policy couldve also paid out on top of the likely sick
pay she had for much longer than her sick pay wouldve likely lasted at the time.
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I still think she couldve found the policy to be useful.
But, if Ms P is able to provide more details and evidence of both her sick pay and any other
means she had available, of course I will review this.
Currently, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. And I dont think
that Ms P has lost out as a result of anything AXA mightve done wrong.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman