DRN-1600461
 
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy Protection Specialist Limited trading as the Fair Trade Practise (FTP) 
are charging their success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim, he said he 
never authorised them to make.
What happened
In April 2014 Mr O signed a letter of authority (LoA) for FTP to act on his behalf to check if 
he could make a PPI claim. He said he asked FTP to check with his credit card and loan 
lenders but not to look at PPI for his mortgage as he was happy for that to continue.
Mr O had a mortgage with lender B and a credit card with another of its entities. He said 
lender B said he didnt have any PPI cover. But in August 2019, lender B wrote to Mr O 
and to FTP as his representative to say the previous information had been incorrect. And 
made compensation payments for PPI that covered Mr Os mortgage account from March 
2009 until August 2019.
As there was now a successful PPI claim FTP asked Mr O to pay their success fee. Both 
FTP invoices say the fee is for a successful claim for PPI on Mr Os credit card.
Mr O said the compensation was for his mortgage account, and hed asked FTP not to 
pursue this. So, as they werent authorised to act for him they shouldnt be charging him their 
fee.
FTP said they had made an error in saying the compensation was for Mr Os credit card. But 
still said the fee was justified as Mr O in signing the LoAs had asked them to act on his 
behalf for all lines of credit. And they had no record of Mr O saying otherwise. 
Our investigator didnt agree FTP should charge their success fee as she was persuaded Mr 
O had said he didnt want FTP to pursue a PPI claim for his mortgage with lender B. So, 
 their fee wasnt justified as they didnt have his authority.
 FTP didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint isnt whether Mr O authorised FTP to pursue PPI claims on his 
behalf but whether hed asked them not to pursue PPI for his mortgage account.Given the passage of time, there arent any recordings of any discussions between FTP and 
Mr O. So, when Im in a position where the evidence available is limited. I will make my 
decision based on what I think most likely happened.
In April 2014 I can see Mr O signed an LoA for lender B and I note the authority says its a 
 claim for a credit card. And there is another LoA signed by Mr O at the same time 
specifically for his credit card lender.
The LoAs go on to say that FTP   will investigate all lines of credit And that Mr O would 
need to tell them if he didnt want this to happen. There is a section for additional 
information, but no details have been added here.
Ive looked at the notes FTP made at the time in 2014. But these are very limited, only 
making reference to a subject access request being sent, lack of account numbers and 
mention of Mr O being an additional card holder. There isnt a record of a response from 
lender B And the claim was closed. There are no further notes until lender B tells both 
FTP and Mr O that they had made an error and compensation was being paid.
Other FTP records show the claim for lender B was closed in 2014. And FTP has said that 
at no point did they investigate Mr Os mortgage account. And reinforced the compensation 
was for PPI for Mr Os credit cards. Although they have since said this was an error.
I have also considered Mr Os recollection, and hes said the reasons why hed taken out PPI 
cover. Why hed wanted to retain this cover on his mortgage. And why he didnt want to 
pursue a claim with lender B for his mortgage.
In August 2019, after lender B reviewed Mr Os accounts they updated both Mr O and 
FTP.  Our investigator did try to find out whether it was the LoA that prompted the review of 
Mr Os mortgage or whether lender B had simply reviewed all of Mr Os accounts. But 
lender B hasnt given us this information. But lender B did see FTP as Mr Os 
representative.
Based on all the above Im more persuaded by Mr Os testimony as he has been consistent 
in why he hadnt authorised FTP to pursue PPI for his mortgage account. Whereas FTP did 
say theyd only made a PPI claim for Mr Os credit cards, and they hadnt investigated his 
mortgage. And this does seem to be reflected in the notes they made in 2014 as I can only 
see reference to a card account. 
So, I dont think FTP can charge their fee as I dont think Mr O had given his authority to FTP 
to make a PPI claim for his mortgage account.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Os complaint. And require Protection Specialist  Limited trading as the Fair 
Trade Practise to waive their fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman