DRN-2646267
The complaint
Mr Hs representative complains, on his behalf, that Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited wrongly advised him to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) policy.  
What happened
In 1997 Sun Life advised Mr H to take out an FSAVC policy. Mr H considers the advice was 
unsuitable, because Sun Life failed to properly point out the potential benefits of investing in 
his employers in-house AVC scheme. Mr H also considered he wouldve been better 
advised to buy added years in his employers scheme. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt persuaded that 
Sun Life had done enough to comply with the regulatory requirements for FSAVC sales 
when the sale took place. In particular, he said he hadnt seen any evidence that Sun Life 
had pointed out the likely cost difference between an in-house AVC and the FSAVC policy.
The investigator considered it likely that Sun Life discussed with Mr H the possibility of 
buying added years in his employers scheme. But he didnt think Mr H had provided a 
persuasive argument to show he was likely to have bought added years. So the investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint on that point.
Overall, he thought that if Mr H had been properly advised by Sun Life he wouldve made 
contributions to his employers AVC scheme.
Sun Life didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It provided a copy of its literature 
headed A comparison of In-house AVCs and Free-Standing AVCs which it said wouldve 
been given to Mr H when the FSAVC was sold. Sun Life said this meant it had complied with 
the regulatory requirements for FSAVC sales at the time.
But Sun Life didnt have anything to show that Mr H had signed a copy of the comparison 
document. So the investigator still wasnt persuaded to uphold the complaint.
Sun Life asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence or the wider surrounding circumstances. 
At the time Sun Lifes FSAVC advice was given, Regulatory Update 20 from the Personal 
Investment Authority (a predecessor of the Financial Conduct Authority) was in force. This 
update set out detailed guidance for advisers about what they should discuss when giving 
advice on FSAVC plans. This included drawing the clients attention to the in-house AVC 
option. And discussing the differences between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC option in 
generic terms. It also stated that the client should be directed to his employers pension 
scheme for further information about the in-house AVC option.
This meant that sun Life needed to discuss the following:
In-house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC policy.
Added years might have been available under a defined benefit occupational 
scheme. 
Mr Hs employer might match or top-up the amount he paid into either in-house 
option.
Ive looked at Sun Lifes written confirmation of the advice that Mr H was given. This is 
handwritten and not particularly clear in places. The document says:
I have referred you to the in-house AVC scheme and pointed out to you the generic 
differences between the two contracts  in your case with your years service it is less likely 
that you could [make?] use of an interim scheme to catch up missing years
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed between Mr H and 
Sun Life when the policy was sold. Even though Sun Lifes notes mention that it pointed out 
the generic differences between in-house AVCs and the FSAVC policy, there seems to be 
an emphasis in the notes on added years, rather than any other differences between the two 
money purchase schemes.  Mention is made of the generic differences between two 
contracts  seemingly the FSAVC policy and the added years arrangement. But there were 
three options here, the third being the in-house money purchase option.
Sun Life hasnt been able to provide a signed copy of the comparison document to show that 
Mr H had seen it. I dont think thats unreasonable given the amount of time thats passed. 
But on balance, I think that if Sun Lifes comparison document had been given to Mr H, its 
likely this wouldve been mentioned in the notes.
I accept that generic differences between in-house AVCs and FSAVCs may have been 
mentioned by Sun Life in its discussions with Mr H. But taking account of the overall context 
of the notes, on balance I think its unlikely that the important detail, such as the likely lower 
cost of the in-house AVC and the possibility of matched contributions, was specifically 
pointed out to Mr H.
When I consider all of these points, on balance I dont think I can reasonably conclude that 
the likely cost difference between the FSAVC policy and Mr Hs employers in-house AVC 
scheme was pointed out to Mr H. And I think that if he had been made aware of the cost 
difference, Mr H wouldve contributed to his employers AVC scheme.
Im satisfied that Sun Life discussed buying added years in his employers scheme with Mr 
H. And Im not persuaded that the available evidence supports the position that he wouldve 
proceeded on that basis. Its likely that Mr H couldve completed maximum years in his 
employers scheme, so added years were unlikely to have been of benefit to him. So I dont 
consider Mr H should be compensated on the basis that he wouldve bought added years in 
his employers scheme. 
Overall, for the reasons given, I think its more likely than not that Sun Life didnt comply with 
the regulatory requirements for FSAVC sales, and that its advice to set up the FSAVC policy 
was unsuitable. Mr H should be compensated on the basis that he wouldve contributed to 
his employers in-house AVC scheme if hed had suitable advice. Putting things right
Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits. 
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter. 
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% (dependant on expected 
earnings prior to retirement) overall from the loss adequately reflects this.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited to pay compensation to Mr H in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman