DRN-4018336
The complaint
In late 2014 Mr D applied to invest in an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS) 
within his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). £50,000 from the SIPP was invested in 
the Waterman Bridge Finance Income Fund (the fund). The funds investors were split 
between a partnership and a Unit Trust (UT). 
Mr D invested through the UT, which covered pension related investments. City & Merchant 
Limited (CML) operated the partnership and UT, and it managed the fund. Around late 2018 
the fund was wound up. In July 2021 Mr D complained to CML and, effective from 1 August 
2021, he formally requested redemption of his capital. His complaint was made jointly with 
another investor (the co-investor) and, in the main, the following was alleged:
CMLs breach of its fiduciary duties  failure to provide periodic statements, audited 
annual reports and fund records/documentation; failure to provide updates on the 
winding up of the fund; and failure to declare its appointed representatives loss of 
regulatory authority in April 2021. [issue 1]
CMLs gross negligence  arising from the breaches of its fiduciary duties, from its 
failure to ensure the security of his investment during the extended winding up period 
and from its failure to safeguard his interests in the investment during this period (by 
allowing another investors capital redemption in 2020 without general consent and 
without addressing the consequences for other investors like him). [issue 2]
CMLs fraudulent misrepresentation of the fund. [issue 3]
CML disputes the complaint and says this service does not have jurisdiction to address it, 
because Mr D invested as an elective professional client and is therefore not an eligible 
complainant. 
What happened
The fund was a UCIS based on secured loan notes to participants in the UK property 
market. The loans were administered and issued through a third-party (Waterman 104, a 
subsidiary of Waterman Capital). Minimum investment was £25,000, minimum investment 
period was one year from the next quarter date after investment and, thereafter, investment 
capital could be redeemed on any redemption date (four such dates in a year) after giving 
six months notice. The fund was limited to [non-retail] professional and/or sophisticated 
and/or high net worth investors, and/or eligible counterparties.
During the investment, a Priority Investor Return (PIR) of 2.5% per quarter (or 10% per 
year) and profit participation applied, but neither was guaranteed. Capital redemption was 
dependent upon liquidity in the fund or from security for the loan notes. A risk warning 
(amongst others) was given in the funds Information Memorandum (IM) saying 
redemptions could be significantly delayed in the event of illiquidity. The loan notes were to 
be secured upon first charges on the end borrowers properties, and the fund also held a first 
charge and debenture over all Waterman 104s assets.
Initially and until November 2018 Mr D received PIRs, effective up to the quarter ending 
October 2018. Around this time, he learnt the fund was being wound up. Thereafter, in 2021, 
arrangements were concluded to result in PIR payments to him to cover the period from 
November 2018 to October 2022. He has received these payments, but he seeks a return of 
his capital and interest. His complaint issues relate mainly to the period from November 
2018 to date.
Both Mr Ds and the co-investors complaints have been referred to us and addressed in 
tandem with each other. 
One of our investigators considered and confirmed our jurisdiction to address Mr Ds 
complaint. He accepted that Mr D had applied for the investment as a professional client. 
However, he noted a lack of evidence to support the application at the time in terms of the 
professional expertise, knowledge and experience required for the classification and in terms 
of the quantity of transactional investment experience required, and he noted that the 
regulatory procedure for the classification had also not been properly applied. With regards 
to the last finding, he said even though Mr D applied as a professional client in the 
application form he had not written separately to confirm the same and he had not written to 
confirm his awareness of the loss of rights under the classification, and these were 
regulatory procedure requirements for the classification. 
For the above reasons, the investigator considered the classification invalid because the 
regulatory qualitative, quantitative and procedure tests had not been met, that Mr D is not 
excluded from being an eligible complainant and that we can address his complaint. 
Another investigator reviewed the matter and affirmed the conclusion that we can address 
the complaint. He said even if Mr D had been properly classified as a professional client the 
relevant regulations changed in 2015 whereby a professional client could still be regarded as 
an eligible complainant if s/he was a consumer, and that Mr D invested as a consumer. 
The second investigator then concluded that the complaint should be upheld. He mainly said 
CML had paid PIRs up to October 2022, but it had breached its promise to return Mr Ds 
capital in April 2019 and that return remains outstanding and the same applies to the PIRs 
due to him since October 2022. He also noted a failure in CMLs customer service to Mr D, 
especially with regards to threats made to him to withdraw his complaint or face loss of his 
capital. The investigator said CML should repay Mr Ds £50,000 capital (with 8% annual 
simple interest from April 2019 to settlement) and should pay him £500 for the 
inconvenience and upset the matter has caused him. 
Mr D made some enquiries about this outcome. He also considered the £500 award to be 
insufficient. In this respect, he referred to the mental distress caused to him (and his spouse) 
by the case, the substantial personal time and effort he has invested in trying to recover his 
capital, the SIPP charges he has incurred over the relevant time, and the investment 
opportunities he has missed during his recovery pursuit. In response, the investigator was 
only persuaded to increase the award to £1,000. 
CML disagreed with the findings on merit. With regards to our jurisdiction its disagreement 
and arguments appear to have related only (or mainly) to the findings in the co-investors 
case and to the interpretation, in principle, of the relevant jurisdiction rules. In terms of the 
merits of the case, CML argued that interest payments have been made up to October 2022 
and that they have been paid on the basis of a continuing presence in the fund, so if a 
capital redemption status is to be claimed then all the payments since the cessation of the 
fund would amount to part repayment of capital, leaving only a remainder of capital 
outstanding  in other words, redress should not be based on the full capital amount. It also 
rejected the finding about its customer service.However, CML then proposed a resolution. It referred to a promise by Watermans principal 
to personally repay capital as soon as he is able to. It said it believes this ought to be no 
more than the balance payment, but it is possible the principal would pay the full capital 
amount. 
The investigator revised his view further, to reflect and endorse CMLs point about the 
payments since April 2019 amounting to part repayments of capital and to confirm that 
redress to Mr D will therefore be based on the remaining capital outstanding after deducting 
those payments. The case developed thereafter, mainly as follows:
CML confirmed that Watermans principal agrees with the investigators revised view 
but cannot confirm a timescale for payment.
Mr D challenged the revision and questioned how it sat in the context of the 
complaint issues, especially matters in issues 1 and 2. He also questioned aspects of 
the investigators findings, referred to a claim for compound interest and sought an 
explanation on how the revised redress restores his position given the opportunity 
costs he has incurred for as long as his capital has remained unpaid. In response, 
and in the main, the investigator explained the revision to his view; he explained that 
it would be unfair for Mr D to have received 10% per year returns on his capital, from 
the fund, between April 2019 and October 2022 and then to be awarded 8% interest 
on the same capital amount over the same period (totalling an 18% per year return); 
he addressed some of the matters in issues 1 and 2 but noted that the crux of the 
complaint is Mr Ds pursuit for recovery of his capital, so that was the main focus of 
his considerations; and he retained his view on the award for inconvenience, and 
stressed that the award is not supposed to be punitive in nature. 
Mr D then asked to be provided a calculation of the proposed settlement and 
questioned the timing of settlement. 
CML sent us a calculation of the proposed settlement based on the revised outcome, 
and it seized the opportunity to repeat its dispute over the investigators alternative 
jurisdiction finding and to specify that it had done no more than endorse Watermans 
principals agreement with the revised outcome. In response, the investigator 
distinguished his jurisdiction finding from the argument CML had made; he also noted 
that the crux of the case was non-payment of Mr Ds capital, after CMLs promise to 
do so by April 2019.
Mr D then accepted the revised outcome, on the terms set out by the investigator. 
The investigator explained that, with CMLs acceptance of the same, payment should 
be made by the deadline he had recommended, but if that did not happen interest will 
continue to run and he could look into helping both parties reach settlement. CML 
considered the deadline to be unrealistic and said settlement depended on 
Watermans principals best efforts to raise the necessary funds. It also said its role in 
the case had been misrepresented, that it never undertook to directly (from CMLs 
money) repay Mr Ds capital, that it had and has no obligation to make good any 
investment losses in the fund, that the settlement was based on Watermans 
principals undertakings and efforts to settle, that the alternative would have been to 
run the fund into a bankruptcy based closure (with total loss and with little to be 
gained from the forced sale of the security for the loan notes), and that it was not 
involved in the subsequent arrangement between the principal and the investors in 
terms of those who elected to continue receiving interest payments and the investor 
who chose instead to recover his capital (without interest payments).No settlement happened on the proposed deadline, so the matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have issued a decision in the co-investors complaint. It shares key facts and arguments 
that are either similar or identical to those in Mr Ds case. As such, the contents of this 
decision and my findings are also either similar or identical to those in the other decision. 
Having said this, there are also some important factual differences, which have been 
observed in this decision.
Jurisdiction
It is not disputed that Mr D presented himself, in his application for the fund, as a 
professional client. Evidence confirms this. He applied for the investment as an elective 
professional client. Such investors, where properly classified, are not eligible complainants, 
so our service cannot address complaints from them. The regulators Handbook says this in 
its Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules for our services jurisdiction. It does so at DISP 2.7.9 R 
(2)(a), with regards to professional clients (both elective and per se). 
However, at DISP 2.7.9A R, the rules say that the exclusion does not apply to those who are 
also consumers in relation to the activity to which the complaint relates. This, in the main, is 
the DISP rule that the second investigator and CML have debated. CML says Mr D is not a 
consumer, because a consumer is a natural person acting outside his/her trade, business or 
profession but he acted within his profession. 
My conclusion is that Mr D is an eligible complainant, for the same reasons given by the first 
investigator. 
The eligibility test is split into two  an eligible complainant must be a consumer, a micro-
enterprise, a charity, a trustee of a trust, a small business or a guarantor [DISP 2.7.3 R]; and 
an eligible complainant must also show that the complaint comes from a relationship 
covered by the rules [DISP 2.7.6 R]. 
I consider that Mr D acted in a consumers capacity in his case. He made the investment 
through his SIPP. A pension arrangement is inherently personal, so his investment conduct 
within the SIPP was essentially conduct in a personal capacity  not in a trade, business or 
professional capacity. There is reasonably clear evidence of the direct and customer-based 
relationship between his investment in the fund and CMLs operation and management of 
the fund. Such a relationship is covered by the rules. The result is that Mr D is an eligible 
complainant, and unless his professional classification says otherwise and takes me back to 
DISP 2.7.9 R and DISP 2.7.9A R, this conclusion stands. 
There is a lack of evidence, within the application and professional client classification 
documents and elsewhere, that the regulatory qualitative and quantitative classification tests 
were passed  in terms of information establishing that Mr D had the level of expertise, 
experience and knowledge required for the classification and that he had the transactional 
quantity experience or professional experience required. Like the investigator said, it also 
appears that the correct procedure for classification was not applied.  I set out the relevant 
rules below, in order to further clarify these findings. As such, Mr D was not properly 
classified as an elective professional client so that classification does not stand and cannot be used to prevent him from being an eligible complainant. Therefore, it is not necessary to 
return to DISP 2.7.9 R and DISP 2.7.9A R, or to engage in the aforementioned debate.
As the first investigator said, the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section of the 
regulators Handbook  at COBS 3.5.3 R  sets out the requirements for an elective 
professional client classification. Three tests apply and are presented as follows  

(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged that the client is capable of making his own 
investment decisions and understanding the risk involved (the qualitative test).
(2) In relation to MiFID or equivalent third country business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
a. The client has carried out transactions in significant size on the relevant market at 
an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters.
b. The size of the clients financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash 
deposits and financial instruments, exceeds EUR 500.
c. The client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services 
envisaged.
(the quantitative test): and
(3) The following procedure is followed:
a. The client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a 
professional client either generally or in respect of a particular service or 
transaction or type of transaction or product;
b. The firm must give the client a clear written warning of the protections and 
investor compensation rights the client may lose; and
The client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is aware of 
the consequences of losing such protections.
Information presented in the classification process with regards to the qualitative test is 
notably insufficient, and it did not establish what the rule above requires. In this respect, 
CML appears to have relied only or mainly on the sector in which he worked, without 
evidence that the requirements of the rule were met in the specifics of his profession. A 
similar approach appears to have been applied to the quantitative test, and there is a lack of 
evidence establishing that Mr D had what the rule required in this respect. Finally, the 
documentation includes pre-printed notice about the classification and its implications, this is 
undersigned by him, but the procedure rule also required separate correspondence from him 
in this respect and particularly with regards to him acknowledging awareness of the loss of 
protections in the classification. This does not exist. Overall, Mr Ds professional client 
classification was not properly established so it does not stand.
Merits
Mr Ds grounds for complaint have been competently articulated in his submissions, and I 
have accurately summarised them in my descriptions of issues 1, 2 and 3. 
During our investigation a fourth ground appears to have arisen, that being CMLs complaint 
handling. I address this first and briefly. Complaint handling is a matter beyond our remit. It is 
not a regulated activity. In some cases, a firms complaint handling might be directly linked to 
the substantive complaint issue and/or its resolution, so it might be viewed as a part of the overall complaint. In Mr Ds case, and as I explain next, the substantive complaint issue 
was/is recovery of his capital. That was dependent upon CML and/or Waterman having 
available funds to do so, it was not linked to or dependent upon the handling of his 
complaint. 
Therefore, the matter remains outside my remit and I make no specific finding on CMLs 
complaint handling. Instead, further below, I present my finding on the personal impact upon 
Mr D from his overall experience in the case.
I understand the lines of enquiry, arguments and accountability that Mr D seeks in issues 1, 
2 and 3. In another case, where there is a need to apply dedicated and detailed treatment to 
such issues that will be done. Given the facts and circumstances of Mr Ds case, I am not 
persuaded that such an approach is necessary. 
He wants to recover his investment capital, the terms for the fund give him a conditional right 
(depending on liquidity) to that recovery, CMLs representatives letter to him of November 
2018 confirmed that the plan was to liquidate a particular security by the end of that year and 
that it had asked Waterman to ensure all liquidated funds were made available by April 
2019, no capital redemption happened in 2019, no full capital redemption has happened to 
date, but Mr D has nevertheless continued to receive PIR based payments up to October 
2022.
Without being dismissive of his specific claims under issues 1, 2 and 3, I consider that they 
have inherent limitations when viewed in the context I have summarised above, and when 
viewed in terms of this services remit. If and/or where the issues relate to alleged regulatory 
misconduct, such allegations (in isolation) would be matters for the regulator. If and/or where 
fraud has been alleged, that (in isolation) would be a criminal matter. This service is not the 
regulator and we do not have a criminal law enforcement remit. 
If and/or where allegations of regulatory misconduct and/or fraud exist to support Mr Ds core 
assertions in issues 1, 2 and 3 (about breach of fiduciary duties, negligence and 
misrepresentation) they can be considered in this context. However, even if each issue is 
individually upheld the remedy that applies, in total, will not go beyond the capital recovery 
(plus interest) that he seeks. 
As I said above, his conditional right to capital recovery already exists in the terms of the 
fund. The condition relates to liquidity. That stands to reason because capital cannot be 
returned if there is no money to do so, and the fund was a high risk UCIS with prior warnings 
about such risks and about potential illiquidity at the point of redemption. Nevertheless, it is 
not disputed that it was a loan note based fund from which investors had, in principle, a right 
to recover their full capital. Mr Ds right to do so became more relevant when the fund was 
wound up. The plan was to meet his entitlement in 2019, that failed and he formally 
exercised his redemption request in August 2021. 
In other words, the crux of the case is recovery of capital, Mr D already has a basis to 
achieve that in the terms for the fund, issues 1, 2 and 3 do not need to be addressed or 
upheld for that purpose, and upholding them will not give him a better form of recovery.
The above finding leads me to CMLs main argument. It presents itself as having no direct 
obligation in the matter, and it says its role is limited to liaising between Mr D and 
Waterman/Watermans principal to explore and achieve a resolution. Any positive and 
meaningful effort by CML to help resolve the case is of course to be commended. However, 
it is wrong to say it has no obligation in the case. It is also wrong to say it played no part in 
the payments that have been made to Mr D since 2021, there is email correspondence 
between both parties in which the payments were being arranged.CML operated and managed the fund, it received investment capital from investors in the 
fund and the funds terms made/make it responsible for capital redemptions. It is not 
disputed that Waterman was the firm through which loans were administered and issued to 
the end borrowers, but Mr D was on a different side of the scenario. He was not an end 
borrower and he had no direct investment in Waterman, instead his investment was in the 
fund operated and managed by CML. Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that CML is 
responsible for the task of fulfilling his capital redemption pursuit. Indeed, the funds terms 
say as much, and there is enough evidence in its correspondence in the case showing its 
acknowledgment of this responsibility.
For all the above reasons, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and his right, as defined in the terms, to 
recover his capital from the fund and from CML. The matter of redress is a significant part of 
his case, and I address that (and the question of what presently constitutes his capital) in 
the next section. 
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation for Mr D will be to redress his pursuit for recovery of his investment 
capital and to award him compensation for the trouble he has faced in the pursuit. The 
events after the funds winding up, and then after his capital redemption request are broadly 
factual and undisputed. The same applies to the fact that, at present, he has received 
payments covering the full period between November 2018 and October 2022. In November 
2018 the fund was closed and by April 2019 the fund had effectively been wound up. It 
follows that, as a matter of fact, payments thereafter could not have been returns arising 
from an ongoing fund  because there was no ongoing fund. 
I accept that the so-called continuing interest payments (made in lump sums during the 
above period) arose from Watermans undertaking. On, it appears, an ex-gratia basis it 
undertook to maintain them for those investors (like Mr D) who agreed to continue receiving 
them. This gave a semblance of continued investment in the fund, but in reality no such 
continued investment existed. He received them up to October 2022 but the fund had been 
wound up long before then. From the point of its winding up, between November 2018 and 
April 2019, and onwards, the only real position applicable to Mr D was/is that of an investor 
awaiting return of his capital from the fund. Indeed, this [return of capital] is what the fund 
expressly promised to do by April 2019. 
As such, I do not find a basis to consider the payments to Mr D from April 2019 and up to 
October 2022 as anything other than partial returns of his capital. He should not be unjustly 
enriched by retaining all those payments whilst also having a claim to recover his full capital. 
Recovery of his capital, at present, must therefore be qualified by a subtraction from the 
£50,000 capital of the total payments [partial payments of capital] he has received between 
April 2019 and October 2022 (or to date). The remainder is what he is entitled to seek in 
recovery.
I am mindful that Mr Ds right to recover his capital was conditional upon liquidity in the fund, 
so I have considered this seriously in terms of whether (or not) he should be entitled to any 
form of interest. There is an obvious argument that interest ought not apply because a delay 
in recovering his capital is one of the risks he wilfully accepted in the investment. Earlier 
above, I mentioned the notice he was given about this risk. 
In another case, and depending on any specific facts, I could be persuaded to make no 
interest award. In the present case, and on balance, I agree with the award of interest. I do so on the facts of the case. In the main  evidence of Mr D being led to expect recovery in 
April 2019; evidence of cross communications which sustained that expectation thereafter; 
and evidence of the payments made to him up to October 2022, which further sustained his 
expectation and which illustrates a meaningful degree of available liquidity in or related to 
the fund. In terms of the last point, the fund had charges on assets belonging to end 
borrowers and, importantly, assets belonging to Waterman too. The payments up to October 
2022 appear to have been made in recognition of the latter  or can fairly be viewed as such 
 and were therefore related to the recovery of capital from the fund. As both sides have 
mentioned, a different investor appears to have received a full return of capital in this way. 
Furthermore, and overall, I am persuaded that the artificial arrangement that was put in 
place for the continuing payments  based on the notion of a continuing fund that was, in 
fact, no longer continuing  might have been well intended, but it was unhelpful. CML, 
through Waterman, appears to have had enough liquidity to meet the payments and to meet 
capital redemptions (as illustrated by its ability to meet the other investors full redemption 
request) during the above period. It ought to have simply used that liquidity to return capital 
to all investors, as opposed to offering the alternative of the artificial arrangement.
The payments up to October 2022 were not made quarterly from 2019. They were made in a 
handful of lump sums from around late 2021 onwards. Ordinarily, I would have considered 
applying interest as and when each partial capital payment was periodically made and as 
the remainder amount changed. However, because the payments were made in lump sums, 
because Mr D was deprived his capital for over two years before the first lump sum payment 
and in order to simplify the calculation I agree with the application of interest, on the capital 
remainder amount, from April 2019 to the date of settlement.
I now turn to the award to Mr D for the trouble and inconvenience he has faced in the case. 
The second investigator proposed £1,000 in response to his argument for a higher award. 
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded to increase the award, instead I have retained 
it. In reaching this conclusion, I am mindful of the following:
Notice of the end the fund was issued in late 2018 and Mr D has received payments 
of 10% of his capital per year from then and up to October 2022 (or to date). As such, 
in broad terms, he has already recovered around 40% of his capital. He will be 
awarded the remaining 60% (approximately) in my orders below, as well as interest 
at the rate of 8% simple per year on that remainder from April 2019 to the date of 
settlement. The capital fully restores his position and the interest sufficiently covers 
his claim for lost investment opportunity. He made an investment in which 
returns/profits were never guaranteed and in which there was a known and accepted 
risk of significant delays in recovering capital. He wilfully undertook the investment on 
this basis. I consider that all the above sets relevant context.
The above context means that delays in recovering capital was something Mr D 
either expected or ought reasonably to have expected in his investment, so I do not 
consider such delays to be grounds to increase a trouble and inconvenience award. 
The same applies to his efforts during any such delayed periods. The £1,000 award 
already caters for the manner in which his expectations were unduly raised and 
mismanaged during this period, and I am not persuaded to compensate him 
additionally for the delay itself or for his efforts during it.
The fund was a high-risk investment with no guarantee of liquidity for capital 
redemptions, so it is implicit that Mr D wilfully sought to expose part of his SIPP to 
such high risks (in exchange for the potential of attractive returns). I have noted his 
submissions about distress arising from financial hardship caused by the delay in 
recovering his capital. However, for this reason I am not persuaded to compensate him additionally for such distress. He undertook the risk of such distress when he 
wilfully applied to invest in the fund. 
Given Mr Ds presentation of himself as a professional applicant for the fund and 
given his professional client classification at the time  albeit improperly done and 
invalid  it was not particularly unreasonable for CML to challenge referral of the 
complaint to our service or our jurisdiction to address it. However, its conduct in 
pressuring him directly to withdraw the complaint was unreasonable. It was already 
challenging our jurisdiction in correspondence with us and that should have been as 
far as it went. I am satisfied that the £1,000 award already caters for the trouble 
caused to him in this respect, so no additional award is called for.
As the investigator explained, our awards are not intended to be punitive. As such, 
any alleged wrongdoings by CML in terms of fraud, negligence and in the setting up 
of the fund would not serve as potential grounds to increase the award to Mr D.
CMLs lack of engagement with Mr D over time would have caused him a degree of 
distress. However, I am satisfied that compensation for this is also covered by the 
£1,000 award.
I have not found evidence that the existence of Mr Ds SIPP, and its associated 
charges, are in any way CMLs responsibility, so I do not consider his statement in 
this respect to be relevant to the award.
what must CML do?
CML must pay Mr D £1,000 for the trouble and inconvenience caused to him, over 
time, in the complaint matter and for the reasons given above.
In terms of redress, CML must do the following:
Note Mr Ds investment capital of £50,000 as A.
Calculate all payments made to Mr D after 30 April 2019 and up to date. The total is 
B.
Calculate A minus B. The result in C.
Pay Mr D the full amount in C.
In addition, calculate interest on C at the rate of 8% simple per year, from 30 April 
2019 to the date of settlement. The result is D. Pay Mr D the full amount in D.
Provide Mr D a calculation of redress in a clear and simple format.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Ds case, the key complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it happened from 30 
April 2019 onwards when he was led to expect a return of his capital) and the complaint was 
referred to us after 1 April 2020 (it was referred to us in 2021), so the applicable 
compensation limit would be £355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and I order City & Merchant Limited 
to calculate and pay him redress, and compensation for trouble and inconvenience, as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman