DRN-3548312
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that The Mortgage Lender Limited unfairly declined a buy to 
let mortgage application following a valuation of the security property. B is represented by its 
director, who Ill refer to as Mr K. Mr K asks that TML refunds the valuation fee of £1,300 and 
pays compensation for his time.
What happened
In mid-2021 B made an application to TML via a broker for a buy to let mortgage. B wanted 
to buy a property divided into four flats. TML instructed a valuation. 
The valuer said the property wasnt suitable security. TML said there were numerous issues 
with the property, which would require too many exceptions from its lending criteria and it 
wasnt prepared to go ahead. Mr K says the property was mortgageable and TML was aware 
of the key aspects of the property before the valuation.
Our investigator said TML was entitled to rely on the expert opinion of the valuer. He said 
when Mr K raised concerns TML responded fairly.
Mr K said hed had similar complaints upheld by this service. He said the valuation was 
clearly negligent, as later valuations showed. He said TML was aware that the location of the 
property and size of the units didnt meet its lending criteria before it instructed the valuation. 
And if the condition of the property was a problem, then the valuer should at least have 
offered a reduced valuation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bs complaint has two parts. That it was unreasonable for TML to rely on the valuation 
report. And that TML knew before the valuation that the property didnt meet its lending 
criteria.
TML says it discussed the property with Bs broker before the application. It knew the 
property was located next to commercial premises and that some of the flats were smaller 
than the minimum required by its criteria. TML said it could lend despite this, if the valuation 
was satisfactory. From what Mr K has said, he was aware that TML was going ahead on this 
basis. 
The valuation report said the property wasnt suitable for mortgage purposes. It said the 
property wouldnt be mortgageable for the majority of mainstream lenders due to the small 
size of the units and the adjacent non-residential premises. It said two of the units were in 
particularly poor condition with damp and condensation. One had numerous building 
regulation breaches. The report said there was limited comparable evidence of undersized 
flats in the area. 
TML instructed a suitably qualified surveyor to carry out the valuation. While lenders are 
generally entitled to rely on the expert opinion of a surveyor, it wouldnt be reasonable to do 
so if theres an obvious error. And Id expect a lender to respond appropriately if a potential 
borrower raises concerns about an error.  
Mr K disagreed with the valuation report. He says the surveyor was wrong to say the 
property was unsafe, and any problems with the condition of the property could be easily 
fixed. He said he could provide information about comparable flats. 
TML responded to Mr Ks comments. It asked the surveyor to comment, and the surveyor 
didnt agree to change the valuation. Lenders ask for valuations to help them make a 
decision whether to lend, but ultimately this is a decision for the lender. TML told Bs broker it 
had made an underwriting decision not to proceed, due to numerous issues with the property 
which impacted its saleability. I dont think in fairness TML had to continue to discuss Mr Ks 
comments with the valuer.
Mr K disputes each issue raised by TML and the valuer. Essentially, he says either TML 
knew about the issue before the valuation, the valuer was incorrect to say there was a 
problem or the problem could be easily fixed. But TML was uncomfortable with the number 
of issues with the property and how this could impact its re-sale.
Mr K says only the yield matters. But if TML enforced its security to recover the debt, 
whether the property was readily saleable would matter. Its clear from TMLs discussions 
with Mr K and Bs broker that this was a concern.
B was aware before the valuation was instructed that the property didnt meet TMLs lending 
criteria and it would only proceed with a satisfactory valuation. B went ahead on this basis.
The valuation wasnt satisfactory. As well as the two known aspects in which the property 
was outside TMLs lending criteria (which Mr K doesnt dispute), the valuer said there were 
issues with its condition and lack of comparable properties to support a valuation. While 
Mr K says the cost of alterations could be dealt with by a retention or lower valuation, that 
wasnt the basis on which TML agreed to proceed with the application and the valuation.
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require TML to refund the 
valuation fee or pay compensation.
Mr K says another lender instructed a valuation of this property which it found satisfactory. 
Lenders have different criteria so this doesnt mean TML made an error. Mr K says hes had 
similar complaints upheld by this service. We consider each complaint individually. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman