DRN-3731465
The complaint
Ms M complains that she was given incorrect information by AFH Independent Financial 
Services Limited (AFH). She says this resulted in her taking advice from AFH, in relation to 
the potential transfer of benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme, and incurring advice fees, which she wouldnt have done but for the incorrect 
information.
What happened
Ms M had deferred benefits in a DB scheme. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
these benefits was £608,858.25.
Ms M wanted to transfer these benefits to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). She was 
put in contact with an adviser from AFH to discuss this, as the adviser was a friend of her 
partner.
Ms M says the adviser told her that advice was required but was a largely a formality. She 
says he explained that AFHs process was what it would first provide abridged advice, the 
outcome of which could be that it was either unclear if a transfer was suitable or AFH would 
not recommend a transfer. She could then take full advice. But even if that advice was not in 
line with what she wanted, shed be able to proceed as an insistent client and complete that 
transfer.
Ive seen a copy of an email from the adviser to Ms M on 10 June 2016, providing a link to a 
fact find for Ms M to complete. And information noted within the fact find refers to 
discussions with the adviser that took place prior to this email.
AFH sent Ms M fee agreements to be completed. For the abridged advice the fee was £400 
plus VAT. This was signed by Ms M on 16 June 2021. AFH also sent Ms M a fee agreement 
for its full advice service. This said that the fee for that service was £15,000 plus VAT, but 
the amount already paid for the abridged advice would form part of this and be deducted. 
This was also signed by Ms M on 16 June 2021  before abridged advice had been 
provided.
On 8 July 2021, AFH provided Ms M an abridged advice report. In short, this concluded that 
AFH had insufficient information to make a recommendation at that time.
AFH sent Ms M a full advice report on 3 August 2021. It recommended that Ms M make a 
partial transfer from her DB scheme, equivalent to £245,011.29, and retain the remainder as 
guaranteed benefits. It said it felt a partial transfer offered the best of both worlds as the 
remaining guaranteed pension plus Ms Ms state pension entitlement would meet her 
income needs, with the transferred amount providing the flexibility she wanted.
Ms M still wanted to transfer the full value of her benefits from the DB scheme. From her 
earlier conversation she understood AFH could assist and process this, so she asked it to do 
so. AFH declined.
Ms M complained to AFH. She said, shed been told by the adviser shed be able to proceed 
on an insistent client basis and complete the transfer. And she said she wouldnt have begun 
the advice process at all were it not for this. 
AFH said that the adviser had confirmed that hed stated to Ms M that shed be able to 
proceed on an insistent client basis, as this was his understanding. But this was incorrect. 
So, it agreed based on the discussions with the adviser Ms M had understood she would 
always be able to transfer and upheld her complaint. However, it said that it needed to 
consider that it had undertaken research and provided full advice. So, it proposed to reduce 
the fee for the full advice from £15,000 plus VAT to £6,000. This was because this 
represented roughly 40% of the initially agreed fee and AFHs recommendation had been 
that Ms M complete a partial transfer, for approximately 40% of the CETV.
Ms M referred her complaint to our service. She explained that she had since sought advice 
from another firm about a transfer, after confirming with it in advance that she could proceed 
on an insistent client basis, if necessary. That firm had processed the full transfer of her DB 
scheme benefits to a SIPP and charged for the service. She also said that the delay shed 
incurred in transferring had impacted her plans, including moving house, and changes in 
market conditions had caused additional costs.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and felt it should be upheld. He noted 
that AFH had accepted it had made an error. And he didnt think Ms M wouldve agreed to 
proceed and receive advice from AFH were it not for this error. So, he recommended that 
AFH waive its full fee and pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. He didnt 
though think it was fair to hold AFH liable for costs incurred as a result of Ms M having to 
alter her plans.
AFH did not accept the Investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AFH acknowledged in its final response that its adviser made an error. It said the adviser 
has confirmed he told Ms M that shed be able to proceed on an insistent client basis, 
regardless of the outcome of the advice. But this was incorrect. AFH says it wasnt under 
any obligation to allow Ms M to go ahead as an insistent client. And I dont disagree with 
that. But AFH did provide Ms M with incorrect information.
As the parties agree that an error has been made, what is left for me to decide is what a fair 
way to address that is. 
I think it is clear that Ms M wanted to transfer her DB scheme benefits in full to a SIPP. And 
that shed made this decision before having taken any advice from AFH. The adviser 
confirmed that theyd discussed Ms M being able to proceed with such a transfer on an 
insistent client basis if needed, which I dont think wouldve been a topic of conversation had 
this not always been a genuine intention. And the fact that Ms M sought advice from another 
company, after AFH declined to process the full transfer, and has since made such a 
transfer, in my view indicates that this was always the purpose of her getting in touch with 
AFH.
I think its likely that the incorrect information was provided to Ms M by AFH before shed 
agreed to both the abridged and full advice fee agreements. I say this because, these agreements were both signed on the same date, 16 June 2021. This was after discussions 
between Ms M and AFHs adviser, referenced in the fact find by date. 
And I also think this incorrect information is what led Ms M to sign both of the fee 
agreements and agree to take advice from AFH. I think its telling that both agreements were 
signed together before any advice had been provided. As Ive said, Im satisfied shed been 
clear about her intentions and wanted to be sure shed be able to transfer. And I think she 
was aware that she needed to take advice, at a cost. I dont think shed have agreed to pay 
fees for a service, either for abridged but particularly for full advice, given the fee involved, 
had she known she may not be able to transfer in full as she intended. And so, if AFH had 
correctly informed her that there was the possibility she would not be able to proceed as an 
insistent client and achieve her aim, I think shed have sought advice from a different 
company at that time, and not proceeded with the AFH advice process. And, while I 
acknowledge that the adviser was an acquaintance, I dont think that wouldve changed this 
or made her proceed and commit to paying fees when she might not have achieved her 
desired outcome.
AFH said in response to the Investigators opinion that it thought the fact that Ms M had 
taken advice from another company showed that shed always have taken advice. But that 
isnt in dispute. The value of Ms Ms DB scheme benefits meant she was required to take 
advice before transferring them. And Im satisfied transferring was always her intention. So, I 
agree shed have always needed to take advice. But I dont agree that shed have always 
taken this advice from AFH. Because, as Ive said, if shed known that AFH might not 
recommend a transfer and that she couldnt then proceed regardless, I dont think shed 
have taken any advice from AFH.
Where an error has been made, our aim is to put a consumer, as far as possible, into the 
position they wouldve been in but for that error.
Im satisfied Ms M wanted certainty that shed be able to progress the full transfer of her 
benefits. So, if AFH hadnt incorrectly told Ms M she always had the option to proceed as an 
insistent client, I dont think shed have agreed to proceed and receive advice from AFH. 
That, in my view, includes the abridged advice, as the incorrect information appears to have 
been given before that process was started. And that means she wouldnt have incurred any 
fees for advice from AFH. AFH argues Ms M received a service from it. But if no error had 
occurred, then advice would not have been provided. I accept that AFH provided a service. 
But this was only done as a consequence of its error, which isnt something Ms M is 
responsible for, so I dont agree it is fair to hold her responsible for any cost AFH incurred.
So, to put things right, AFH should waive its advice fee in full. For the avoidance of doubt 
this means Ms M is not responsible for any further payments and AFH should refund any 
payment she has already made  which I understand is most likely the £400 plus VAT for the 
abridged advice service  as this formed part of the total cost of the full advice and wouldnt 
otherwise have been incurred.
Our Investigator also recommended that AFH pay Ms M £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Ms M has explained that her plans were delayed because the advice 
process with AFH, which took a couple of months, was effectively wasted. And I agree that 
without the incorrect information, Ms M wouldve likely approached a different company 
sooner, potentially avoiding this delay. And I think this was delay wouldve been frustrating. 
In addition, finding out that the information shed been given was incorrect, that shed 
proceeded with advice on this basis and that AFH intended to hold her liable for the related 
fee was also likely to be upsetting for Ms M, as I think she was entitled to expect and trust 
that the adviser was aware of AFHs processes. So, in the circumstances, I agree that an 
award of £300 for the distress caused is fair.I dont though think itd be fair to hold AFH liable for additional costs Ms M has incurred in 
respect of her plans, including a house move, or the additional cost, over and above AFHs 
fees, for the advice she obtained from another company. I say this because advice would 
always have needed to be taken from another company. And AFH isnt responsible for a 
third-party companys fee structure. And although the delay was frustrating, I dont think 
costs incurred due to changes in market conditions couldve reasonably been foreseen or 
are something that AFH can fairly be held responsible for here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ms complaint.
To put things right I require AFH Independent Financial Services Limited to:
Waive any outstanding fee for the DB transfer advice.
Refund all payments Ms M has already made to it in respect of this advice.
Pay Ms M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman