DRN-2218178
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that TICORP Limited mis-sold them a travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs C bought their travel insurance policy through Staysure. Staysure is a trading 
name of TICORP Limited. So Ive referred to TICORP Limited as Staysure throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mrs C called Staysure on 10 February 2020 to take out a single trip travel insurance policy, 
to cover a driving trip Mr and Mrs C planned to take around Europe. The policy was due to 
start on 1 June 2020 and end on 30 August 2020. Cancellation cover began on the day the 
policy was taken out. Mr and Mrs C paid £342.65 for the policy, which included cover for Mr 
Cs medical conditions.
On 18 March 2020, Mrs C called Staysure to cancel the policy. They werent able to travel as 
planned as a result of Covid-19. Staysure told Mrs C that it could offer her a pro-rata refund 
of premium as a credit voucher. The refund amount took into account the time the insurer 
had been covering Mr and Mrs C for potential cancellation of their trip. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with the premium refund offer and they complained. While their 
complaint about the premium refund was being looked into, Mr and Mrs C also made a new 
complaint about the sale of the policy. Staysure had led them to believe that because they 
hadnt booked their trip at the time the policy was sold, it shouldnt have been sold to them. 
They also said that Staysure hadnt sent them an Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID) as part of their policy documentation. And the policy documents hadnt been received 
until March  which was more than 14 days after the policy was taken out. This meant they 
hadnt been entitled to cancel the policy during the cooling-off period and obtain a full refund 
of their premium. They also said they werent aware that cancellation cover began on the 
day the policy was taken out.
Staysure didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold to Mr and Mrs C. The policy didnt 
require a trip to be booked in order for a policy to be taken out. The terms and conditions 
simply stated that a return trip to the UK had to be booked before a policyholder travelled. 
Staysure said it didnt need to send an IPID, as the information was available on its website. 
It apologised for the misinformation its call handler had given Mr and Mrs C about trip 
requirements though, so it offered them a 20% discount on their next policy with Staysure.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with the way Staysure had sold their policy and they asked 
us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
policy terms required a policyholder to have a trip booked at the point they took out a policy. 
She thought Staysure did need to send Mr and Mrs C an IPID, but she didnt think theyd lost 
out as a result of Staysures failure to send them this information. Thats because she 
thought Staysures call handler had made it clear when policy cancellation cover started and 
that hed explained the cooling-off period during the sales call. And even allowing for a delay 
in the policy documents being sent, she didnt think it was likely that Mr and Mrs C had 
cancelled their policy within the 14-day cooling off period.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. I need to make it clear that this decision will only look at whether Staysure mis-sold 
this policy to Mr and Mrs C. Theyve also complained about the refund their insurer has 
offered them, which is being considered separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Staysure has done anything wrong which it needs to put right. 
Ill explain why.
Were Mr and Mrs C eligible for the policy?
Staysure accepts that its call handlers wrongly told Mr and Mrs C that it shouldnt have sold 
them a policy because they didnt have a trip booked at the time of sale. This isnt the case. 
The eligibility criteria doesnt require a policyholder to have booked a trip to be eligible for a 
policy. The only relevant term which mightve applied to their policy is found in the Period of 
Cover section and says:
Each trip must begin and end in your home country and a return ticket must have been 
booked prior to departure.
This term simply means that in order to be a covered for a trip, a policyholder mustve 
booked their return ticket before they travelled, not before they bought the policy. On this 
basis, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C were eligible for their policy. And I think the 20% discount 
Staysure issued on a future policy to recognise itd given Mrs C misinformation is fair and 
reasonable to put this mistake right.
Should Staysure have sent Mr and Mrs C an IPID?
Staysure concluded it didnt need to send Mr and Mrs C an IPID by post, because this 
information is available on its website.
Like the investigator, Ive also carefully considered the regulators rules about what 
information should be provided to a consumer when they buy a contract of insurance. The 
relevant rules here are the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), section 
6.1. 
ICOBS 6.1.10A says: A firm when dealing with a consumer must provide the IPID 
information by way of an IPID for each policy. (Other than a pure protection contract.)
ICOBS 6.1.10B says: 
The IPID information:
1. Needs to be provided on paper or on another durable medium;
2.  In the case of telephone selling, a firm may provide the IPID in accordance    with the 
distance communication timing requirements and provide the IPID to thecustomer immediately after the conclusion of the policy, in accordance with
ICOBS 6.6 (Means of communication)
A durable medium is defined as (a) paper; or (b) any instrument which enables the recipient 
to store information addressed personally to the recipient in a way accessible for future 
reference and for a period of time adequate for the purposes of the information and which 
allows the unchanged reproduction of the information stored.
In my view, ICOBS makes it clear that it isnt enough for Staysure to simply store a copy of 
the product IPID on its website for consumers to access if they choose to do so. I think its 
clear that an IPID needs to be provided to a consumer immediately after the insurance 
contract has been taken out. Theres no dispute that Staysure didnt send Mr and Mrs C an 
IPID after they bought their insurance policy. So I dont think Staysure did provide them with 
all of the information it shouldve done. 
This means I now need to consider whether I think Mr and Mrs C lost out as a result of this 
misinformation.
Were Mr and Mrs C made aware of when cancellation cover would begin?
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt get their policy documents until March 2020 and that they didnt 
know that cancellation cover would begin immediately, which would impact on the refund 
they were entitled to. Originally, they told the investigator the documents werent received 
until the end of March (which wouldve been about two weeks after they cancelled the 
policy), but they later said they werent sure when in March they were received.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs C have said. The policy schedule is dated 10 February 
2020 (the day of purchase). The front page clearly states, in the cover section: cancellation 
cover for a single trip policy will begin immediately after booking your policy. I think this 
makes it clear that cancellation cover starts after purchase.
But even if Mr and Mrs C didnt get the policy documents before they cancelled their policy, I 
still think Staysure made it clear upfront when cancellation cover would begin. I say that 
because during the sales call, the call handler explained that cancellation cover would start 
immediately after the policy was purchased and he and Mrs C had a discussion about what 
this meant and what type of costs shed get back under cancellation cover. I think the call 
handler did enough to explain the period of cover to Mrs C and that it was reasonable for him 
to conclude that Mrs C had understood this information.
So Im satisfied that Staysure did make Mr and Mrs C aware of when cancellation cover 
would begin. And I dont think theyve lost out as a result of not being sent an IPID.
Did Mr and Mrs C cancel their policy within the cooling-off period?
Mr and Mrs C bought their policy on 10 February 2020. The policy gives a cooling-off period 
of 14 days  either from the date of policy purchase (which would be 24 February 2020) or 
the date the policy documents are received  whichever is later. Mr and Mrs C called up to 
cancel the policy 37 days after theyd taken it out. As Ive explained above, it isnt clear when 
they received their documents, theyve simply said it was in March. For Mr and Mrs C to still 
have been in the cooling-off period when the policy was cancelled, theyd need to have 
received the documents no earlier than 4 March 2020. But during the sales call, the call 
handler told Mrs C that postal documents were usually sent within seven working days. He 
also explained that there was a cooling-off period. Theres nothing to suggest Mrs C chased 
these documents, given she couldve expected to receive them around 18 or 19 February 
2020 and shed asked when the cooling-off period would begin. The fact the documents were dated 10 February 2020 suggests they were produced very shortly after the sale had 
taken place. And it doesnt appear that Mrs C indicated either that her documents had never 
been received or that shed only received them on or after 4 March 2020 and should 
therefore be entitled to a full refund, when she called to cancel the policy.
So I dont think I have enough evidence to find that Mr and Mrs C cancelled their policy 
within the cooling-off period.
Having considered everything, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, I dont think 
Staysure mis-sold them their travel insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman