DRN-4102417
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled 
a claim he made under the contents section of his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2022 Mr W contacted RSA to report that his fridge freezer was no longer working 
after it had been removed to install pipes behind it. 
RSA instructed an engineer to attend, and Mr W was unhappy with the engineers visit. 
RSA accepted that the engineer should have inspected the fridge freezer and had failed to 
do so. 
It was agreed that a manufacturer engineer would visit and inspect the fridge freezer. 
Unfortunately this didnt happen as planned. 
RSA apologised to Mr W. It paid him £125 compensation for the inconvenience its poor 
service had caused. An engineer who later attended confirmed the cause of failure was a 
breakdown and so not a valid claim for RSA to meet. 
Mr W asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted RSA to meet the costs to replace his 
fridge freezer and to compensate him for three days he took off work for the inspections. 
Our Investigator explained that RSA was entitled to carry out an investigation in order to 
decide if Mr Ws claim was one it could meet. For the avoidable delay and inconvenience 
caused by the missed appointments, the Investigator thought RSA had done enough to put 
things right. He didnt think RSA owed Mr W the costs of a replacement fridge freezer as the 
cause of damage wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mr W didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to Mr Ws complaint: how RSA handled the claim and whether its 
decision not to meet the claim was reasonable. 
RSA accepts that it at times caused avoidable delays - and Ive no doubt having to make 
arrangements for an engineer to attend more than once unnecessarily was an 
inconvenience for Mr W. I also have to consider that when making any claim, its reasonable 
to expect a degree of our own time and some disruption in doing so. I think its inevitable. 
Fortunately making a claim isnt an every day occurrence. 
So - for the additional inconvenience caused by the failed appointment and failure to inspect 
the fridge freezer by the first engineer, I think RSAs compensation and apology is fair and 
reasonable here. The award of £125 is in line with similar awards which we make and 
examples can be found on our website. 
The cause of damage to the fridge freezer was due to a component failing. So this isnt an 
insured event under the contents section of Mr Ws policy. I appreciate that Mr W would like 
RSA to meet the costs to replace the fridge freezer, but I dont think it is obliged to do that as 
his claim isnt a valid one for it to meet. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W. But I think therefore that RSA has dealt with his complaint in a 
reasonable way. And this means Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman