DRN-3590718
The complaint
Mr W has complained National Westminster Bank plc didnt manage his account when he 
was a victim of fraud and didnt give him enough compensation.
What happened
Mr Ws card details were used fraudulently to set up a credit arrangement after a purchase 
from a major retailer. Mr W noticed immediately and told NatWest. They refunded the initial 
transaction the following day and gave Mr W a new card.
A further debit was made to the new card within a fortnight. Mr W complained again and was 
refunded. A further debit card was issued. Two further small transactions were debited to 
this card. Mr W was extremely unhappy NatWest hadnt stopped the further transactions 
causing him additional concern and worry.
NatWest apologised and gave Mr W £200 in compensation. Mr W remained unhappy and 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He believed the compensation was 
insufficient and decided to close his account with NatWest. He believed the errors theyd 
made had caused his credit record score to dip.
Our investigator reviewed what had happened. He believed overall the compensation was 
fair and wouldnt be asking NatWest to do anything further.
Still dissatisfied, Mr W has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive not repeated the facts noted in our investigators view of 24 June 2022 as I know both 
Mr W and NatWest received a copy of this.
Firstly its worth confirming Mr W has been a victim of fraud and through no fault of his own 
has had to contact his bank four times to ensure he was refunded. Theres no dispute 
NatWest made an error in trying to reassure Mr W no further fraud would happen. 
Unfortunately because of the nature of the fraud I think NatWest would always have had 
difficulty in stopping the fraud from hitting Mr Ws account.
However I do note that as soon as Mr W notified NatWest, he received his refunds in the 
timescale Id expect to see. The first and second larger amounts were recredited within two 
days as required by existing payments legislation. The smaller amounts  £6 apiece  didnt 
take substantially longer. So Im satisfied NatWest refunded Mr W as Id expect them to do.
I believe  as Im sure Mr W does  that no further fraud should have occurred once hed 
notified NatWest what had happened. I think its more than likely that its this aspect which 
has caused him the most concern. I understand this concern.
Unfortunately issuing Mr W with a replacement card wasnt enough to stop the company 
debiting Mr W further. I believe the original purchase was linked to a credit arrangement so 
this explains why further debits were made. But Mr W had not expected any further fraud 
and I can see why this was a concern.
However NatWest has apologised and gave Mr W £200 for their error and the trouble theyd 
caused. I appreciate Mr W expects more compensation. But I believe £200 is fair and 
reasonable.
NatWest is not responsible for the actions of the fraudster  who undoubtedly caused these 
issues. The compensation theyve given is therefore adequate for their error.
Mr W has complained that closing his account caused his credit score to dip. However Ive 
reviewed the evidence hes provided us from his credit reference agency. I dont believe this 
is the case. They provided reasons why his score may be lower than it had been and none 
of these relate to him changing his bank account. As the fraud was related to a disputed 
credit arrangement, I think that may have had some impact. Now the credit arranger knows 
this was a fraudulent arrangement, this should have no further impact on Mr Ws credit 
record. 
I dont wish to belittle Mr Ws concerns. Being a victim of fraud is unsettling and if issues run 
on, as they did here, then that exacerbates the issue. But overall Im satisfied NatWest has 
provided him with suitable compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ws complaint against 
National Westminster Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman