DRN-2146027
The complaint
Mr S says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says that it didnt carry out proper 
checks before lending. If it had done it wouldve seen that he would struggle to repay the 
loans and it shouldnt have approved them.
What happened
This complaint is about three home collected loans Morses provided to Mr S between 
October and December 2019. Ive put some of the information I have been provided in the 
table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedtotal 
repaiddate ended
1 03/10/2019 £200 £250 14/05/2020
2 15/12/2019 £200 £90 14/05/2020
3 27/12/2019 £70 £30 14/05/2020
Morses looked at Mr S complaint and said that it should be upheld. It offered to refund all of 
the interest and fees that Mr S had paid on the loans. This left Mr S with an outstanding 
capital balance to be repaid. Mr S doesnt think he should repay any of the money he 
borrowed as the loans were mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator looked at the offer made and thought it was fair and reasonable. He didnt 
uphold Mr S complaint about the remaining balance he needed to repay. Mr S disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Morses has accepted that it shouldnt have approved these loans. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about this. So, Ill only consider whether what 
Morses has done to put things right is fair and reasonable.
The purpose of any compensation should be to put Mr S back in the position he would be in 
had Morses not lent to him irresponsibly. So, I think its fair that Mr S receives a refund for 
any interest and charges he paid, as he wouldnt have paid them. The offer Morses has 
agreed to make refunds the interest and fees Mr S paid, plus interest, on loan 1. He didnt 
pay any interest or fees on loans 2 and 3.
And I think it is reasonable that Mr S repays the principal that is lent, as Mr S would have 
had the use of this money. The information I have, shows that an outstanding principal 
balance remains on the last two loans as in the table above. That is Mr S has repaid less 
than he borrowed. So it therefore follows that its reasonable for Morses to use the refunded 
interest and fees to repay any remaining principal balance that remains. 
After the refund is applied an outstanding balance will remain so Id suggest that Mr S and 
Morses come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan. And I would remind Morses of its 
obligation to treat Mr S fairly. 
Morses should ensure the statements it provides are accurate as it seems to have made 
some errors in the past. I understand these have now been rectified. 
Putting things right  what Morses needs to do
If Mr S accepts this decision that Morses should implement the offer it has made to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about not paying anything 
further towards the loans.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above, that is pay the offer 
it has already made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman