DRN-3897394
The complaint
Mr G complains about the delayed transfer of his cash holdings from a third-party business 
(referred to as the transferor) to Barclays Bank UK PLC, referred to as Barclays or the 
transferee. 
What happened
In late October 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Barclays says, I dont think it 
behaved reasonably in respect of the cash transfer. Unlike the investigators 
recommendation, on balance, I think it should pay Mr G £350 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the delays.
  
Whilst I dont think Mr G intended to purchase shares by a specific date, based on his 
actions I think he probably intended to purchase AFC Energy PLC shares upon completion 
of the transfer.  
But for the delays, on balance I think its more likely than not the transfer wouldve completed 
by 12 August 2020. Therefore, by way of redress I think Barclays should do the following:
Compare the AFC Energy PLC shares Mr G purchased on 3 February 2021, with 
what he couldve purchased on 15 August 2020 using the same cash. If theres a 
negative difference pay the loss of shares into Mr Gs ISA. 
Work out and pay any lost interest from the date of purchase to the date of 
settlement. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Gs strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr G, and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Whilst delays can occur  where one or both parties are at fault  sometimes delays can 
also occur where neither party is at fault, and either scenario can have an impact on redress, 
depending on the individual facts of the case. In this case, and on balance, I think Barclays 
is to blame for the delay and poor service in respect of Mr Gs cash transfer request. Thats 
why Ive chosen the date of August 2020 which I will explain later. 
I make clear that in this decision Im only considering the actions of Barclays, and not the 
transferor, despite the obvious connection to this complaint. In other words, a complaint 
against Barclays doesnt allow me to decide about the transferors actions, which I 
understand has already been dealt with separately, but not upheld. 
Nevertheless, I dont think Barclays managed Mr Gs expectations as well as it couldve or 
provided the level of service that he could expect from it, including accurate and up to date 
information about what was going on.
Theres no dispute that on 14 May 2020, Barclays initially sent an unsigned transfer request 
form to the transferor, received on or about 26 May 2020  which in my opinion, and on 
balance, is the root cause of this complaint. I note Barclays did so on the basis that the 
transferor wasnt one of the businesses that had opted out of the contingency process, and 
it was dealing with the transferor in respect of two other cash transfers in which there were 
no issues.  
In my opinion Barclays made a number of assumptions regarding Mr Gs request, based on 
which it, of its own volition, it erroneously concluded that a signed transfer request form 
wasnt needed in this instance. As the transferee, I think Barclays ought reasonably to have 
made clear, at the outset, what was required in order to successfully initiate the transfer 
process. Regardless of what may or may not have happened previously, I note at no point 
did the transferor say that it wouldnt require a signed transfer request form in this case. 
In my opinion what Barclays says explains its actions but doesnt justify it. I note in this 
instance the transferor simply couldnt act without the relevant signed transfer request form  
which it only received in January 2021  so was unable to progress matters in its absence. 
As I mentioned above, regardless of what the transferor may or may not have done in other 
instances, it needed a signed form in this instance.  
The above notwithstanding, I dont think it shouldve taken Barclays six months, and an 
intervention from Mr G, to decipher that the transfer request wasnt going to plan  especially 
if the request wasnt (apparently) going as smoothly as its two other requests with the 
transferor. Im mindful that Barclays wrote to the transferor between May 2020 and 
November 2020 and received up to nine holding letters but matters still failed to progress. In 
my opinion, Barclays  as the transferee and initiator - didnt act reasonably in the 
circumstances.  
Im conscious of what Barclays says about why it didnt telephone the transferor, but in the 
circumstances, and on balance, I think it ought reasonably to have telephoned the transferor 
and a lot sooner. Given the sorts of measures businesses had in place during the pandemic 
and homeworking, I dont think working away from the office, during this period, prevented it 
from calling another business to clarify matters that were clearly causing a delay. It seems to 
me this inaction aggravated the situation.
The fact that the Barclays transfer team had apparently successfully corresponded with the 
transferor on other transfers, is all the more reason why Barclays ought reasonably to have 
called up the transferor. In my opinion, and on balance, it doesnt justify why in the face of 
numerous holding letters, it continued to simply await the transfer for a period of six months. 
Whilst I appreciate what Barclays says, I think every transfer request ought to be dealt with 
on an individual basis. I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Whilst I note what Barclays says about the transferors actions, Im only considering the 
actions of Barclays in this case. I think on balance it ought reasonably to have confirmed 
whether or not the transferor was able and willing to accept an unsigned transfer request in this instance. Rather than continue to chase the transferor in a way that was evidently 
getting nowhere. 
I note the transferor wrote back to Barclays, several times  to an address on the continent 
that was displayed on correspondence  in response to Barclays. Despite what Barclays 
says, its email/document looked as though a corresponding business should only write to its 
UK address if it was in relation to an in-specie transfer. Im aware that the example referred 
to by Barclays said: Our in-specie details are: and then provided the address for Smart 
Investor in the UK. In my opinion it probably wasnt clear that the same address should also 
be used for cash transfer correspondence. 
The above notwithstanding, I note that on 28 May 2020 after contacting Barclays, Mr G was 
told that it would send out a transfer request form for him to sign. Despite what Barclays 
says, it seems thats what was ultimately required, and Im conscious that Barclays 
(arguably) had the necessary document in its possession but didnt and/or couldnt act upon 
it. Mr G did what was required of him, but through no fault of his own, his instructions werent 
actioned. 
I note Mr G again contacted Barclays on 30 November 2020 but was told that it was still 
chasing the transferor  I think this was likely to have caused some significant distress and 
inconvenience. It was only after that he contacted the transferor himself, and led the way, 
and matters were eventually sorted. Im aware that in the process Mr G had to chase and 
make numerus calls to both businesses.  
I note Barclays opted for the Altus method, but on 17 December 2020, it was notified by Mr 
G that the transferor was only accepting paper-based requests. In due course, on 22 
December 2020 it was established, unsurprisingly, that a new transfer request would be 
required. 
On balance, I think this information shouldve and couldve been clarified by Barclays a lot 
sooner. On balance, Im satisfied that in this instance Barclays is to blame for things not 
moving along more efficiently, and not keeping Mr G updated with what was happening and 
managing his expectations. 
For clarity, I dont accept that Barclays is only to blame for its actions after 22 December 
2020.  
Regardless of what the transferor may or may not have done in due course, on balance Im 
satisfied that the issue was caused by Barclays failing to provide the correct instructions. 
I note that the investigator, despite his findings in this instance, hasnt commented upon 
when he thinks this request wouldve completed but for Barclays error. Perhaps he 
deliberately did so on the basis that Mr G didnt chase Barclays request for six months and 
therefore he failed to mitigate his own position. But if thats the case, it could also be argued 
(as Barclays has argued) that the £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience is too 
high in the circumstances  which Im minded to agree with in any event.
In my opinion, the transfer request  between transferee and transferor  isnt wholly 
contingent upon the investor chasing the businesses. In other words, Mr G not chasing 
Barclays doesnt of itself absolve Barclays of its responsibility to successfully complete the 
transfer. It may however have an impact on any redress if Mr G were to claim that he wanted 
to purchase shares on a specific date at a specific price, but he hasnt. 
In this instance Mr G not chasing the transfer suggests that he didnt have a specific date by 
which he wanted to purchase new shares. But based on his actions, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr G was content to purchase shares upon the successful transfer of his cash. 
Based on Barclays last response and calculation, I note it also accepts this general premise.  
In the circumstances I accept that its very difficult to know exactly when the cash transfer 
wouldve/shouldve completed by. Even if the correct documentation had been provided by 
Barclays at the outset, I cant safely say the transfer wouldve/shouldve completed within 30 
days or by end of July 2020 in this instance. I appreciate what Mr G says about up to 30 
calendar days to transfer. But I cant blame Barclays for not being able to complete the 
transfer according to what Mr G says  more recently by two weeks. Im conscious that the 
transfer process is a dynamic process, and that not all delays can be controlled and/or are 
blameworthy.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely (than not) the transfer 
probably wouldve completed within 3 months of Mr G instructing Barclays. So, roughly by 12 
August 2020 Mr G wouldve received his cash thereafter allowing him to buy the relevant 
shares two days later, on 15 August 2020. 
So, by way of redress, provisionally, I think Barclays should do the following:
Compare the AFC Energy PLC shares Mr G purchased on 3 February 2021, with 
what he couldve purchased on 15 August 2020 using the same cash. If theres a 
negative difference pay the lost shares into Mr Gs ISA. 
Work out and pay any lost interest from the date of purchase to the date of 
settlement. 
Pay Mr G £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays. 
   
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Mr B responded and accepted my provisional decision. In summary, he said:
Hes grateful and very much appreciates the considerable thought and time taken to 
deal with this complaint and for recognising his strength of feeling and financial loss 
suffered. 
He doesnt have any further information to provide, but has the following two 
observations to make:
oThe date of 15 August 2020 is a Saturday, therefore it needs to be clear what 
the exact share price was at the time. Hes expecting around 127,000 AFC 
Energy shares to be deposited to his account. 
oRegarding the interest, and noting that the Bank of England base rate was 
around 0.1% - does the late payment of Commercial Debt Regulations 2013, 
apply? Hes unsure which rate Im thinking of applying and for what period it 
would apply from. 
Barclays also responded and made the following key observations: 
Given the high value of the redress it needed to discuss this matter with senior 
stakeholders before passing the decision on/processing the payment.  
Although it understands it wouldve taken three months, it wants a more detailed 
explanation of my rationale for choosing the date of 12 August 2022 as the date of 
completion. In other words, it needs more detail as to why this date was used as part 
of my provisional decision. Our investigator explained to Mr G that the answers to his queries can be found on our 
website. 
I provided an explanation to Barclays about why I chose 12 August 2020 as the date of 
completion, effectively reiterating my decision. In summary I said:
Mr G wanted to transfer his cash so that he could buy specific shares  this is 
evidenced by what he did, days after the transfer, albeit nine months later. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied thats what he wouldve done had 
the transfer happened sooner. 
Ive not based my decision on what the shares prices wouldve been. Its not material 
to my decision to uphold this complaint. I made clear in my provisional decision that 
Mr G may or not be entitled to losses.  
I appreciate Mr G didnt chase the business for some months, but this didnt excuse 
the business from doing what it shouldve done. He also didnt have a date by which 
he wanted to purchase shares, just that he wanted to buy shares on completion.  
The alternative, much like the investigators view, is to hold the business responsible 
for the significant delay, but not accept that Mr G wouldve done what he said he 
would do and subsequently did do, shortly after the transfer, but pay substantial 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Thats not a decision I was able to 
safely come to.  
I note that Barclays, unlike the investigators view, also accepts that Mr G wouldve 
purchased shares upon completion of the transfer, and thats why it did the 
calculation it did and concluded that there was no loss. 
Barclays only accepts that its responsible for the poor service form December 2020 
 in the main because Mr G didnt chase the business for six months  but I dont 
agree with that. I cant dismiss the fact that Barclays made the mistake in the first 
instance, and in due course (from June 2020) had in its possession the relevant 
signed form. 
Like Barclays, Im aware government guidance is 30 calendar days and Mr G thinks it 
shouldve been even sooner, but I thought it ought reasonably to have happened by 
12 August 2020 which is roughly three months  taking into account the 
circumstances at the time  from when the instructions were first given. 
I acknowledge that its very difficult to know for sure exactly when the cash transfer 
wouldve/shouldve completed by  I dont think its an exact science  and I dont 
claim to have the perfect answer. This is why I issued a provisional decision inviting 
Mr G and Barclays to provide any further submissions they wished me to consider 
including regarding the date I recommended. 
Barclayss response suggests that it accepts my provisional decision to uphold this 
complaint and for the reason set out in my provisional decision, and is also open to 
my proposed redress methodology which I appreciate, however it would like further 
explanation as to my rationale for choosing 12 August 2020 as the date of 
completion. However, despite wanting further explanation regarding the August date, 
Barclays hasnt made any points about why this date isnt fair.  
I think its more likely (than not) the transfer probably wouldve/shouldve completed 
within three months of Mr G instructing Barclays. So, roughly by 12 August 2020 Mr 
G wouldve received his cash allowing him thereafter to buy the relevant shares two 
days later on 15 August 2020.
The date of 12 August 2020 should be considered in light of my findings overall, and 
not in isolation, which could give the incorrect impression that Ive selected this date 
without any consideration, which I have not. 
Notwithstanding that I have a fairly wide date range, I believe the date of 12 August 
2020 is an informed and considered date by which I think the transfer probably ought 
reasonably to have completed by. Its also three months from the date of the request and takes into account the unique circumstances at the time  namely the Covid-19 
pandemic and government lockdown  that wouldve inevitably impact on the transfer 
not happening sooner.
Im conscious that the transfer process is a dynamic process, and that not all delays 
can be controlled and/or are blameworthy. I believe the date of 12 August 2020 
broadly takes all this into account.
Barclays responded and said that it had reviewed the information provided and liaised with 
its business teams. Having done so, it suggested the date of 14 December 2020 as the date 
Mr G wouldve purchased the shares in question. 
   
In other words, it said that Mr G originally disagreed with the investigators (non-uphold) view 
and suggested that he shouldve received the money in his Barclays account by Friday 11 
December 2020, and that he wouldve placed the order to purchase AFC Energy shares on 
Monday 14 December 2020.  
Mr G didnt accept the business response. He hopes that I will consider Barclays failing to 
respond with additional points within the allocated deadline.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from Mr G and Barclays, my 
decision to uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the same reasons as set 
out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, despite being given time to respond to my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that no new material points have been made that persuade me I should change my decision. 
In this instance, and on balance, Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and 
have been considered by me, in my provisional decision (and further response to Barclays) 
so I dont think I need to repeat myself. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, for the reasons 
set out above I still think the complaint should be upheld and Barclays should pay Mr G the 
following redress:
Compare the AFC Energy PLC shares Mr G purchased on 3 February 2021, with 
what he couldve purchased on 15 August 2020 using the same cash. If theres a 
negative difference pay the lost shares into Mr Gs ISA. 
Work out and pay any lost interest from the date of purchase to the date of 
settlement. 
Pay Mr G £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays.    
 
I appreciate what Barclays says about Mr Gs prior comments regarding the December 2020 
date. But that was in relation him (in my opinion prematurely and erroneously) accepting that 
Barclays wasnt at fault for certain delays and that it was only responsible from the point that 
he re-chased the transfer, which I dont believe is correct for the reasons that Ive considered 
and explained in my provisional decision. With the greatest respect, I dont think Mr G 
wouldve known any better about what Barclays was or wasnt doing during this period. I also maintain, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, that Mr G didnt have a 
specific date by which he wanted to trade but was evidently keen to do so as soon as the 
transfer was complete. 
In response to Mr Gs questions, I dont know exactly how many additional shares this will 
mean for him or what the eventual value will be, this is for Barclays to work out. The interest 
rate is 8% simple, from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
As I understand, the Late Payment of Commercial Debts Regulations 2002, as amended by 
the Late Payment of Commercial Debts Regulations 2013, generally allow a creditor to 
charge statutory late payment compensation on top of any debt claim. This is provided that 
both creditor and debtor are acting in the course of a business which isnt the case here, so 
its unlikely to apply. 
In this instance, and on balance, but for Mr G chasing Barclays in November 2020 I think the 
December 2020 date isnt material in the circumstances, given that the business at the 
outset, failed to do what it was supposed to do. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr G the following redress:
Compare the AFC Energy PLC shares Mr G purchased on 3 February 2021, with 
what he couldve purchased on 15 August 2020 using the same cash. If theres a 
negative difference pay the lost shares into Mr Gs ISA. 
Work out and pay any lost interest from the date of purchase to the date of 
settlement. 
Pay Mr G £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should work out and pay Mr G the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman