DRN-3654938
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the way Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money (Virgin)  
handled her claim for a refund of two payments she made using her credit card account.
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs F used her Virgin credit card account to pay an airline 
£1,007.92 for return flights from Manchester to Mallorca for herself, her partner and 
her parents (Party 1). They were due to fly from Manchester to Mallorca on 
18 August 2020 and return on 23 August 2020. 
Separately, Mrs F paid the same airline £819.92 for return flights for four other family 
members (Party 2). They were due to fly from Manchester to Mallorca on 
20 August 2020 and return on 23 August 2020.
The airline changed the outbound flight time for Party 1 on more than one occasion. 
When the change was between one and three hours, Party 1 could either accept the 
change or move the flight for free. On 18 June 2020, the outbound flight for Party 1 
was moved to 17 August 2020.
On 28 July 2020, Mrs F contacted the airline to request a full refund for both Party 1 
and Party 2s flights. She explained that they were unwilling to fly because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, that the Government had advised against travel to Mallorca, that 
each party included a key worker who couldnt quarantine for two weeks on return, 
and Party 2 included two children under the age of two.
The airline refused to provide a refund because the flights were still going ahead.
On or around 27 August 2020, Mrs F completed online forms with Virgin to dispute 
both transactions. In addition to the points she made to the airline, Mrs F explained 
that they live in an area where there was a local lockdown.
On 16 September 2020, Virgin wrote to Mrs F to say it couldnt take her claim further 
because the flights had gone ahead.
Mrs F wrote to Virgin twice to ask it to reconsider. In her second letter, Mrs F said the 
airline had breached the contract because the date and times of the flights were 
changed by the airline and Mrs F says she didnt accept any alternative dates or 
times.
In response to a complaint, Virgin wrote to Mrs F on 17 February 2021 to explain why 
it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mrs F then referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think Virgins decision not to attempt a chargeback 
was unfair. Nor did he think Virgin should refund the money under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Mrs F disagrees and has asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs F first contacted Virgin, she asked it to initiate a chargeback by completing the 
appropriate form. 
A chargeback is a way for a credit card provider to reclaim money from the suppliers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services she paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Mastercard  
and a strict criteria and time limits apply. To be clear, Virgin doesnt set the rules. And I cant 
change them.
As Ive explained above, Virgin chose not to initiate a chargeback because Mrs M and her 
family chose not to fly even though the flights went ahead.
Ive carefully considered Mastercards rules.
Alongside its detailed rules, Mastercard helpfully issued guidance during the pandemic. The 
guidance it issued at the start of May 2020 makes it clear that there is no chargeback right if 
the cardholder chose not to use an available service following precautionary advice or to 
avoid mandated quarantines upon arrival, or the cardholder could not use an available 
service because of travel restrictions, etc. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair that 
Virgin didnt attempt a chargeback.
Our investigator also considered Virgins liability under section 75 of the CCA as Mrs F paid 
for the flights using her credit card.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, that the credit provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Mrs F asks: why isnt it a misrepresentation for the airline to tell her to go against 
Government advice and put her family at risk by taking flights she didnt book? I appreciate 
that Mrs F is very disappointed with the airline. However, a misrepresentation in contract law 
is a false statement of fact by one party that causes the other party to enter into the contract. 
That didnt happen here.
Mrs F also says there was a breach of contract because the airline changed the dates and 
times of the flights. But I havent seen any evidence that this wasnt done in accordance with 
the airlines terms and conditions  which is the contract in this case.
Finally, Mrs F says the contract she made in January 2020 was for flights for her family to a 
safe environment, with no need to quarantine on return. She feels very strongly that there 
was a breach of contract by the airline because she did not and could not get what she 
purchased in January 2020, and thinks that the flights going ahead is irrelevant in the 
circumstances. But I havent seen any evidence that the airline gave Mrs M or her family any 
assurances about conditions at the destination or what would (or would not) happen on their 
return when she purchased the flights.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs F and her family. Their decision not to fly was 
eminently sensible and responsible, and shes out of pocket through no fault of her own. 
However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it was unfair that Virgin didnt attempt a 
chargeback. Nor do I think there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the airline 
for which Virgin is legally answerable.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman