DRN-3270057
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy because BUPA Insurance Limited declined a claim made on 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had the benefit of a multi-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA 
(the policy). 
In November 2020, Mr and Mrs G booked to travel abroad - for around nine days in 
December 2020 - to a Mediterranean island (the island) which was governed by a country 
Ill refer to S.
Around the time of booking their trip, travelling away from home - including internationally - 
was restricted from England except in limited circumstances such as for work and education. 
In early December 2020 - the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) were still advising 
against all but essential travel abroad. However, there were exceptions in place to this 
advice and travel corridors were introduced allowing international travel to certain countries 
and territories around the world. That included travel to the island at the time  meaning 
travellers didnt need to self-isolate when returning to the UK.
However, whilst away, in December 2020, the UK government announced that the island 
would be removed from the travel corridor list. And anyone returning from the island would 
need to self-isolate for 14 days upon their return to the UK  effective from 12 December 
2020. Mr and Mrs G decided to cut short their holiday and return to the UK early, to avoid 
having to self-isolate.
They made a claim on the policy for the cost of their flights back to the UK which was 
declined by BUPA.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs G complained to BUPA and when it maintained its position, they 
brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagree so their complaint has 
been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and promptly. And they shouldnt unreasonably decline a claim. Ive 
taken these rules into account when reaching my decision. 
I know Mr and Mrs G will be very disappointed, but Im satisfied BUPA has fairly declined 
their claim. Ill explain why below.
Pages 19 to 22 of the policy terms and conditions set out cover for cancelling, amending or 
cutting short your trip.  The policy does provide cover for cutting short a trip and returning 
home early as a result of FCO travel advice if:
after the time you purchased your policy or booked your trip, whichever is the later, 
the FCO advises against all, or all but essential travel to your intended destination, 
and your trip departure date is within: 
the period for which the FCO advises against all, or all but essential travel, to your 
intended destination or,
where no period is advised by the FCO, 28 days 
However, Mr and Mrs Gs trip wasnt cut short because the FCO advised against all, or all 
but essential travel to the island  the travel corridor was still in place. At the time of cutting 
short their trip, the UK government had announced that those returning from the island 
would need to self-isolate for 14 days  effective from 12 December 2020 - but the FCO 
hadnt changed its advice to the extent that UK citizens shouldnt travel to the island (or must 
return). 
This section of the policy also provides cover for you or your travelling companion are 
placed in quarantine. However, Mr and Mrs G werent placed in quarantine at the time of 
cutting short their trip. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to ask BUPA to 
reassess the claim on the basis that they were.  
When making this finding, Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs G say about the type of 
travel insurance policy they had the benefit of and the reason why they decided to return 
back to the UK early  particularly given their profession. However, I dont think that means 
BUPA has acted unfairly by declining the claim for the reasons set out above.
Ive also considered that BUPA didnt set out the right reasons for declining the claim at the 
outset. For example, the FCO advice that was in place at the time the holiday was booked, 
and Mr and Mrs G travelled. But, ultimately, I dont think that impacts the outcome of this 
complaint as I think BUPAs decision to decline the claim was ultimately fair and reasonable.
 
I also know that Mrs G called BUPA towards the end of November 2020 - before travelling 
abroad - to check whether they were covered should they need to cut short their trip 
because of Covid-19. Ive listened to the call and I dont think Mrs G was given inaccurate 
information about the policy which had an impact on this claim. Mrs G was told:
If the British government announced that British citizens abroad should return 
home, and Mr and Mrs G had to pay for another flight, BUPA would be able to 
consider repatriation.
If the relevant government abroad (in this case the government of S) decided 
to the lockdown the island, that wouldnt be covered. 
As the holiday was booked during lockdown, if Mr and Mrs G had to cancel 
the trip, they wouldnt be covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman