DRN-4273112
The complaint
Miss A complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) irresponsibility lent to her. 
What happened
Miss A was granted one loan of £700 on 14 January 2023. She was due to make six monthly 
repayments of £189.35. As of April 2023, an outstanding balance remained due but its 
possible the loan has now been repaid. 
Following Miss As complaint about her loan, MoneyBoat considered the complaint and 
concluded it had made a reasonable decision to lend and so it didnt uphold it.  Unhappy with 
this response, Miss A referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said MoneyBoat 
carried out proportionate checks and there wasnt anything to suggest the loan would be 
unsustainable for her. 
Miss A didnt agree saying she didnt think the complaint had been considered fairly. As no 
agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss A could afford to pay back the amount 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss As income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss A. These factors include:
Miss A having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss A having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss A coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss A. The adjudicator didnt consider 
it reached the point in the lending relationship where this applied and I agree, as there was 
only one loan. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss A could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss A was able to 
repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss As complaint.
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Miss A for details of her income, which 
she declared as being £2,250 per month. MoneyBoat says the declared income figure was 
checked through a credit reference agency.   
Miss A also declared monthly outgoings of £1,100. As part of the application, MoneyBoat 
used information from its credit search to adjust the declared expenditure Miss A had 
provided. As a result, of this check, Miss As monthly expenditure wasnt increased and so 
for the affordability assessment, MoneyBoat used the monthly outgoings that Miss A had 
declared. 
After carrying out these checks, Miss A had sufficient disposable income, according to 
MoneyBoat to be able to afford the repayments she had to make. 
Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying 
here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do 
is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything in any of the results that 
wouldve indicated that Miss A was having current financial difficulties, for example it knew 
there were no current insolvency markers, County Court Judgements or debt management 
plans. And it knew that Miss A hadnt defaulted on any account within the last three years. 
MoneyBoat did know that Miss A had a number of credit cards and at least three loans that 
had a longer term, with significant capital borrowing. And so MoneyBoat ought to have 
known that the amount Miss A declared for her credit commitments as part of her application 
(£450) wasnt enough to cover the loans and credit cards that Miss A had. But even if I 
substitute a more reasonable figure from what I can see in the credit report, of around 
£1,000 per month to cover Miss As existing credit commitments, she still had sufficient 
disposable income to afford her repayments. Overall, given this was a first loan and there was also nothing else in the information that Ive 
seen that wouldve led MoneyBoat to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  
such as verifying the information Miss A had provided. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the 
information Miss A provided along with its further checks. I also consider the checks it 
carried out to be proportionate. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Miss A was 
having financial difficulties, or these loans would be unsustainable for her. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss As complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment for her, but based on the information Ive been provided, an outstanding 
balance may still remain due, and I would remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Miss A 
fairly and with forbearance if necessary.  
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman