DRN-3803600
The complaint
Mr B complains about his home emergency insurance policy with British Gas Insurance 
Limited and the service he received. 
Any reference to British Gas includes the actions of any agents  such as engineers acting 
on their behalf. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr B and British Gas. In my decision, 
Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr B had a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas. In January 2022, British Gas 
let Mr B know that as part of a trial, they were adding underfloor heating cover to Mr Bs 
existing policy at no extra cost. 
Mr B made a claim on his policy, but a number of appointments were missed. Given the 
delay, Mr B arranged a third party independent engineer to visit. Mr B then wanted British 
Gas to reimburse him for the cost of the remedial works and provided three invoices. 
British Gas declined reimbursing Mr B on two of the invoices and said the works completed 
werent covered or were excluded under this policy and if a British Gas engineer had 
attended, they wouldnt have completed these works under the cover provided. 
For the third invoice (pump and manifold set), British Gas said the root cause of the loss was 
sludge or scale  and this was an exclusion under the policy. 
Mr B raised a complaint with British Gas. As he remained unhappy with their response, he 
referred it to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator recommended that 
British Gas pay the third invoice and also pay £125 for any trouble or upset caused. Neither 
party accepted the recommendation and the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Ive to reach my decision 
based on what I think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
British Gas have accepted responsibility for three delayed or missed appointments and 
made payment of £150 separately. My decision will make reference to the missed 
appointments when commenting overall on whats happened here, but I wont be making any 
findings on the offer of £150.
Have British Gas fairly and reasonably considered the claim  inline with the policy terms?  
(Invoices one and two)
Invoice one referred to the following works carried out:
isolated the underfloor heating manifold to take it apart to see if there was any 
restrictions and clean it out, [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] and 
invoice two:
after 1st visit didnt work, engineer isolated the underfloor heating manifold, took the 
manifold out to gain access to the heating loops, engineer then flushed out each 
loop [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] and using a wet-vac sucked out all 
the water in each loop to make sure there was no restrictions [bold added for 
emphasis by Ombudsman] in the pipework,
The engineer has also described the purpose of the works as to investigate to see if there 
was a [sic] issue with sludge.
In my opinion its clear what the intention of these works were and I find that British Gas 
have fairly considered and declined the first two parts of his claim. I say this because these 
invoices related to cleaning or checking the system for blockages  which was a key 
exclusion under this cover;
Any damage caused by limescale, sludge, other debris or anything similar that 
causes, or may cause, any restrictions or blockages
Whilst I note Mr Bs comments that the works carried out didnt find anything and were trace 
works, this doesnt mean that the exclusion doesnt fairly apply. The works carried out 
werent something this policy covered. British Gas have been clear that if their engineer had 
attended, they wouldnt have completed these works under the policy. 
I dont uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint.
Invoice three
Invoice three was declined by British Gas as they said Mr B had been advised to have a 
Power flush of the system previously - which hed declined and they felt sludge and scale 
were the cause of the system failure here and, in turn, these parts needing to be replaced. 
As our Investigator has referenced, Mr B previously referred a complaint to our Service 
which he had a final decision on. British Gas agreed in 2020 not to enforce the Power flush 
related exclusion to the policy at that time - so that Mr Bs policy remained intact. 
As British Gas were unable to fulfil the appointments booked (and carry out their own report) 
when Mr B reported the issues related to this claim, it could be unfair for them to default to 
now relying on that exclusion. Whilst Ive kept this in mind, this wasnt the deciding factor 
that tipped this part of the complaint outcome in Mr Bs favour - for the reasons Ill explain 
below. Ive also kept in mind that a significant change to the cover also took place - the 
underfloor heating trial since that final decision was issued. 
Ive then considered the evidence from the independent third party engineer, particularly the 
email dated 7 June 2022:
After talking to your self regarding the work carried out, Id just like to clarify that on 
inspection when working on the underfloor heating manifold I did not find any sludge or dirt in the system, the initials [sic] work was to investigate to see if there was a [sic] 
issue with sludge but I did not find any.
Its clear that the engineer carried out the clearing/cleaning (invoices one and two) to cover 
off a scenario where there may have been blockages in the system. Crucially though, no 
blockages were reported by that engineer. 
Ive also considered that: 1- Ive seen no supporting, persuasive evidence from British Gas 
that sludge and/or scale were the cause of the damage to the pump/manifold and 2- the 
engineer carried out a system clean - yet this didnt resolve the issues. Therefore, British 
Gas havent done enough to show that they can fairly rely on the relevant exclusion here. 
Ive noted the comments from British Gas:
As a third party carried out the work and we no longer have access to the faulty 
components we cannot verify the quality of the third party works. Was the manifold 
blocked & just needs cleaning out? Obviously, replacing the pump and associated 
manifold will remove the symptom of the fault as the blockages/restrictions would 
have been removed as a result. However, we strongly believe that these parts were 
not fundamentally faulty & the root cause was sludge/scale that has built up in the 
system over several years and we have mentioned on numerous visits and quoted 
for a PowerFlush which was not taken on board by the customer.
As the parts in question were taken away by the engineer, unfortunately this means that they 
cant now be inspected to determine that the cause of the loss here was. But I cant hold this 
against Mr B as: 1- its perfectly normal for an engineer to take away parts following a repair, 
unless the customer requests to keep them and 2- if things had happened as they should 
have, British Gas wouldve sent their own engineer out to one of the three appointments 
booked in and been able to inspect the system. As outlined above, that matter has been 
resolved via a separate complaint, but I make reference to it here as its relevant. 
Given the previous issues with this heating system and the previous involvement of our 
Service, it wouldnt have been unreasonable to expect that British Gas wouldve taken every 
step to meet one of the scheduled appointments theyd booked in. 
In summary, I find that British Gas cant fairly rely on the relevant exclusion theyve referred 
to for declining this part of the claim and it follows that I find that British Gas have unfairly 
declined this part of the claim.
Putting things right
British Gas Insurance Limited now need to:
Settle invoice three (£1346.48) and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
 subject to reasonable proof that payment was made by Mr B, until the date 
settlement is made, and
Pay Mr B £125 for the avoidable trouble and upset caused here by how theyve 
handled this claim and treated Mr B overall. 
Whilst Ive noted Mr Bs points about parts B-D of his complaint to British Gas, I wont be 
making any direction other than what Ive set out above. Whilst reaching my outcome on this 
complaint Ive considered all of the evidence and kept in mind British Gas communication 
with Mr B and any trouble or upset theyve caused him, as well as how theyve treated him 
overall. My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to follow my direction, as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman