DRN-3226090
The complaint
S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made their business savings account dormant
without informing them and they have been inconvenienced by the actions of Barclays.
What happened
S says that their accountant was finalising their end of year accounts early in 2020 and they
asked to see proof of funds in their Barclays savings account. S says the last time they
received anything from Barclays regarding their account was a statement from November
2017, so they contacted Barclays about the account.
S says they were told by the call handler that the account didnt exist. S then communicated
with Barclays via his online account with the Barclays customer relationship team. S says
that after several emails they were informed that the account had been made dormant due to
inactivity. S says they were instructed to visit a branch with two forms of identification.
S says their director visited the branch with two forms of identification, but Barclays wouldnt
accept one of the pieces of identification as it wasnt photographic. S said they werent told
of this. Ss director said he was told there was no such savings account on Barclays system.
S showed the member of staff their last statement they received for the account in question
and then the cashier managed to locate the account on another system.
S says they were given poor customer service as the member of staff questioned why they
hadnt been bothered to enquire about this sooner. Ss director said that in 40 minutes
speaking with the member of staff, she had made eye contact for only five minutes with him.
Ss director also said that he had very unprofessional service from the member of staff and
he said that he believed her to be racist towards him.
S was referred to the branch manager. S says the branch manager understood their problem
and that he asked S to return to the branch with photographic identification. S says they did
this within two days and asked for the matter to be dealt with as a complaint with the intent of
the account balance being reinstated from its dormant status along with the request for the
appropriate interest to be added as it would have accrued if the account was active.
S complained of how Barclays handled their complaint as their complaint was made in July
but they hadnt been sent a final response until 16 September 2020, despite being told by
Barclays that S would have an update by 31 July 2020 and then being told on 9 September
they could bring their complaint to our service.
Barclays did not uphold the complaint. They said that S had been sent a letter on 19
September 2017, which notified S that the account would be closed and made dormant
unless S took steps to keep the account active. They also said no interest was owed to S
and the dormancy was processed in line with the banks legislation. Barclays said Ss
business manager would be able to open a new account for them. In regards to Ss
comments about customer service and racial allegations, Barclays said that they contacted
the branch manager who confirmed the member of staff treated S adequately but inferred
that Ss director had been abusive in the branch.
S brought their complaint to our service. During our investigations, Barclays said that in
recognition of S being told incorrect information and for not answering some of Ss questions
on their secure messaging system, they were willing to offer S £150 to resolve the complaint.
Barclays told our investigator that S didnt receive a closing statement as a gone away
indicator had been placed on their account. They explained that this indicator is usually
placed on an account when they have had post returned to them, undelivered.
Barclays also told our investigator that the member of staff offered to raise the claim for the
dormancy funds, but S refused as they wanted the account reopening and the funds
returning to the account. Barclays said the member of staff informed S that this wouldnt be
possible and thats when S asked to log a complaint and wait for the outcome of the
complaint before taking further action.
S has since received the funds from the dormant account in June 2021. S has said that the
interest they were paid was grossly inadequate and asked why Barclays did not send a
closing statement.
Our investigator felt the £150 that Barclays offered was fair. She explained the guidance
from the British Bankers Association (BBA) in respect of dormant accounts. Our investigator
said that Barclays had followed the guidance for dormant accounts. She also explained that
Barclays didnt send any statements after the November 2017 statement S received or the
closing statement due to a gone away marker stopping post being sent.
S wanted an Ombudsman to look at their complaint. They made a number of points including
that Barclays had told them their account didnt exist, then their account was closed, then
their account was dormant. S also highlighted the November 2017 statement was the last
they had heard about this account and they hadnt been sent a closing statement, which S
believes is malpractice and unacceptable. S also says they had suffered delays in receiving
the account balance. S also didnt believe the interest had been calculated accurately.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S has made a number of points to both Barclays and this service and Ive considered
and read everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick
and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of their complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
Both parties dont agree on several points. So Ive looked at all of the information available to
me in order to decide what is more likely to have happened and when, on balance of all the
evidence here.
Firstly, Ive considered whether Barclays followed their procedures by letting S know of their
intentions to close their account due to their inactivity and Im persuaded that they did. I say
this as Barclays have provided evidence that they sent the letter to Ss registered address
dated 19 September 2017. I know S says they did not receive this letter, but I cant hold
Barclays responsible for postal errors.
But I do think S may have been aware that the account was inactive as in a secure message
to Barclays on 1 July 2020 they said they have in the past been reminded of their inactivity -
but do not have recollection of the closure of the account. Barclays have told me that theonly correspondence they send to a customer about the inactivity of an account is the letter
they sent S on 19 September 2017. And provided their terms and conditions which supports
this is the only thing they send prior to closing an account due to inactivity. So its likely that
S may have received this letter but may not have understood that the account would be
closed if they took no action.
Ive then considered if Barclays have followed their procedures when closing the account.
Im not persuaded that they have here. I say this as although they made the account
dormant and closed it on the date given in the letter, due to a computer error, they did not
send a closing statement to S. It is for this reason that the closing statement wasnt sent and
not due to a gone away indicator on the account which Barclays previously had said this
was the reason for no further correspondence being sent.
Im persuaded this would have an impact on S. I say this as regardless of whether S did
receive notification that the account would be closed or not, I think that the closing statement
would have prompted the realisation that the account was actually now closed and in all
likelihood this would have prompted S to take action sooner, to transfer the funds in the
account to an active account.
The next thing Ive considered is Ss interactions with Barclays when S was aware that the
account was closed. Ive asked Barclays to send me a copy of all of the phone calls that S
had with their call handlers regarding the dormant account. Barclays say they have searched
their systems from the two telephone numbers they have for S, but they have been unable to
locate any call recordings that S made to them. S has confirmed that these were the only
telephone numbers they would have rang Barclays from. So while it would have been useful
to listen to these calls, Im unable to do so here.
S has said that they were told different things about the status of the account  such as their
account didnt exist, then their account was closed, then their account was dormant.
Barclays say they have no evidence S was told this. I am persuaded though on the balance
of probabilities that it was likely S was told different things about the status of their account
due to the time it took for the cashier to locate their account. From the cashiers statement of
what happened on the day, she admits it was difficult to find Ss account, so it may have
appeared to her that the account didnt exist until S showed her their November 2017
statement.
I am also persuaded that it would have been reasonable for Barclays to tell Ss director what
identification he would need to take into the branch. Although Barclays have said there are
many forms of identification that they could accept, I dont think it would have taken long to
establish if he had photographic identification and I think this could have resulted in Ss
director making one branch visit instead of two branch visits. They also told him incorrect
information about Ss business manager being able to open a new account for them.
Ive considered what Ss director has said regarding the interaction at the branch with the
cashier and he thought this was because of racial discrimination. I must make it clear to S
that discrimination is a matter of law, set out in the Equality Act. Its for the courts to make
findings on matters of law, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding that
Barclays acted in breach of the Act. Although I am required to take law into account, if its
relevant, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint.
I asked Barclays if there was any Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) that was available from
Ss visits to the branch, as this would have given an indication of what happened, such as
how S and the cashier interacted and the involvement of the branch manager. And although
the CCTV wouldnt likely contain audio, it would have likely shown how long S was at the
counter and what happened, as both parties recollection of events here are very different.But Barclays have confirmed that due to the time which has elapsed they do not have this
footage. So I wont be able to rely on this here.
Here though, Im satisfied that S was treated fairly in his interactions with the branch. I say
this as although S says they waited 40 minutes for the cashier to find the account and only
had eye contact for five minutes, Im persuaded this would be likely due to her looking
through the various systems to locate their account. As S has highlighted, after informing
them that she couldnt find the account, or have access to their notes on the system, she
was able to find these and read the notes. So while Im persuaded that the service could
have been more seamless here, and although S will have been frustrated by what happened
here, Im satisfied they treated him fairly. I understand that S was able to speak to the
branch manager and had their concerns recorded.
Ive then considered the delays in transferring the funds to an active account. Barclays say
that when S returned to the branch with the correct identification, they offered to raise a
dormancy claim for the funds but S declined to do this, as they wanted to log a complaint
instead as S originally wanted the accounts reopened. So Im persuaded that as a result of
the dormancy claim not being raised here, this resulted in delays in transferring the funds to
an active account. As Barclays offered to raise the claim here, Im persuaded that they were
trying to help S resolve his issue in a timely manner.
Ive considered what S has said about how their complaint was handled by Barclays and the
delays they have suffered. But as complaint handling is not a regulated activity, it falls
outside of my powers to rule on how a business handles their complaints procedure.
I know S doesnt think they have received the correct interest on the account while it has
been closed. So Ive asked Barclays how the interest has been calculated. Barclays have
confirmed they paid the same interest as S would have earned on the account if the account
was active, despite saying in their final response letter that no interest was owed to S. Ss
last statement in November 2017, shows that the interest rate on the account was 0.2% from
2 November 2017. The interest rate prior to S transferring the funds to an active account
was 0.01%, therefore, the interest Barclays paid S is broadly in line with what I would expect
them to pay S.
In summary, S should have been sent a closing statement for the account and I would
expect this to be the last correspondence they received for the account after no action was
taken from the September 2017 letter, as opposed to the November 2017 statement being
the last thing S was sent about the account. Im also persuaded that the customer service S
received was not up to the standard that Barclays would expect it to be and I can see that S
was inconvenienced by Barclays actions for the reasons Ive already explained.
So Ive thought about the compensation that Barclays have offered. As our investigator
explained to S, a limited company is a separate legal entity from the people who run it. So,
when a complaint is brought to us by a director  acting on behalf of their business  the
complainant is the limited company. A limited company cant experience pain and suffering
or distress. But I can consider the inconvenience that S has had. And I do think that the £150
that Barclays have offered is fair.
I say this as the compensation that Barclays have offered is broadly in line with what I would
have asked Barclays to pay S if they hadnt upheld their complaint. Im satisfied this level of
compensation acknowledges S didnt receive a closing statement and they were
inconvenienced by the service Barclays gave them, including Barclays not responding to
questions on the secured messaging service and giving S incorrect information about the
interest, their business manager being able to open the account for S and the gone away
indicator. So I intend to ask Barclays to pay S the compensation they have offered, £150.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Barclays accepted the provisional decision, but they wanted to add some further 
information. S summarised that while I agreed with the main body of their complaint my view 
of its seriousness has been misunderstood. They wanted Barclays to see their comments, 
as S said they hadnt presented their views to S personally.
In summary, Barclays acknowledged the service elements that were referenced within the 
provisional decision and they accepted that the service they provided could have been better 
as it would have undoubtedly caused S a degree of frustration. They said that some of this 
may have been as a result of bank-wide actions that were taking place at the same time. 
As S experienced a change to their sort code to ensure it was under the correct arm of the 
bank, Barclays feel that two service issues would have likely been as a result of (or at least 
contributed by) the changes to Ss account as a result of the ring-fencing process.
Barclays say that this is likely to have caused issues for the member of staff in branch as 
they believe S gave the staff member the previous account details. This would have resulted 
in the staff member searching for account details which couldnt be located.
Secondly, the status of the account. Once located, Barclays said its likely the original 
account details would show the account as having been closed via natural means, rather 
than to dormancy. This is because the original sort code was effectively closed under this 
process, so it wouldnt have been immediately obvious to the branch staff, given it would 
certainly not be their speciality to deal with business accounts, or the ring-fencing process. 
Barclays feel the branch staff would always have struggled due to the timing of the 
combining events taking place and they reaffirmed their opinion that the staff handled the 
request as best as possible and the compensation they offered in recognition of the service 
issues remains fair and appropriate.
S gave their final views to the provisional decision. In summary, S said that the 
compensation awarded was grossly inadequate for the first denial and subsequent troubles 
they have had to retrieve their balance.
S said that they were surprised that based on objectivity, that I dismissed the issue of their 
racist presumption (defined as unconscious superiority or simply unprofessionalism) but 
accept Barclays have said S was abusive to their staff. 
S did not agree that Barclays were trying to help them as they did not reinstate the balance 
and the treatment they suffered from Barclays. S feels Barclays did not entertain the core 
complaint of the balance at all. S concluded that no funds were transferred to them until S 
approached our service. S said there were no delays  it was not done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Barclays have said about the reasons why there may have been 
service issues. While I understand that the changing of the sort codes may have resulted in 
problems locating accounts in the branch, Im not persuaded that this should have an impact 
on the customer service received by S, for changes to accounts which are outside of a 
customers control. 
Ive then thought about what S has said about the compensation being awarded is grossly 
inadequate. I must emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts 
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look 
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into 
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial 
business has failed its customer in any way. Where we find it has, we make awards 
designed to make the business put things right with the complainant customer. Our awards 
are not designed to punish a business or to make it change the way it acts in order to protect 
other customers in the future. That is the role of the regulator.
I know S feels that the seriousness of their issues has been misunderstood. I want to 
reiterate to S that I have taken their issues seriously. I know how important these issues are 
to S and I have read everything that theyve said and sent to our service. I know S thinks that 
I have dismissed what theyve said about the racist presumption, and Ive accepted what 
Barclays have said about S being abusive to their staff. But I must be clear here, that in my 
provisional decision I did consider this point and I said the following: 
Ive considered what Ss director has said regarding the interaction at the branch with the
cashier and he thought this was because of racial discrimination. I must make it clear to S
that discrimination is a matter of law, set out in the Equality Act. Its for the courts to make
findings on matters of law, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding that
Barclays acted in breach of the Act. Although I am required to take law into account, if its
relevant, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint.
I asked Barclays if there was any Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) that was available from
Ss visits to the branch, as this would have given an indication of what happened, such as
how S and the cashier interacted and the involvement of the branch manager. And although
the CCTV wouldnt likely contain audio, it would have likely shown how long S was at the
counter and what happened, as both parties recollection of events here are very different.
But Barclays have confirmed that due to the time which has elapsed they do not have this
footage. So I wont be able to rely on this here.
In relation to Ss comments about me accepting what Barclays have said about them being 
abusive, I must be clear that in my provisional decision I did not comment on what Barclays 
said: Barclays said that they contacted the branch manager who confirmed the member of 
staff treated S adequately but inferred that Ss director had been abusive in the branch. As 
an impartial service, we give both parties the chance to tell us their side to what happened 
and this included what Barclays told us here.
Ive considered what S has said about Barclays not trying to help them and that the funds 
werent transferred before they brought their complaint to this service. But as I said in my 
provisional decision Barclays say that when S returned to the branch with the correct 
identification, they offered to raise a dormancy claim for the funds but S declined to do this, 
as they wanted to log a complaint instead as S originally wanted the accounts reopened. So 
Im persuaded that as a result of the dormancy claim not being raised here, this resulted in 
delays in transferring the funds to an active account. As Barclays offered to raise the claim 
here, Im persuaded that they were trying to help S resolve his issue in a timely manner. So 
as S declined for Barclays to raise a dormancy claim here, Im persuaded this is the reason 
why the transfer took longer than it should have taken here.
In summary, Ss response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know S will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope they understand my reasons.
My final decisionBarclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay S £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman