DRN-2791169
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund the money he 
lost when he was the victim of a scam. Mr H also complains that Nationwide closed his 
account and registered a fraud prevention marker against him without due cause.
What happened
Mr H says that in the summer of 2018 he was introduced to someone Ill call S and another 
by a neighbour. S was said to be a lead agent in the UK of a global cryptocurrency platform. 
Mr H says he was asked to invest in what he has described as a pyramid scheme and 
encourage others to do so with the promise of doubling his investment in a five-month 
period. He was also shown a promotional video. 
Mr H invested his own funds and also those of family and friends. He says he initially paid a 
middle-man around £22,000 in three separate payments. The middle man retained a 
commission and transferred the rest to S. Mr H says that he also sold a package to a work 
colleague for £12,199 and made two payments from his own account of £6,099 and £6,100 
in respect of this on 31 January 2019. The work colleague decided not to proceed, and Mr H 
says he returned his money, so has lost the £12,199 he transferred. 
Mr H expected to get his investment back in June 2019 but says this didnt happen. He 
negotiated with S until January 2020 and then contacted Action Fraud on 7 January 2020. 
On 15 January 2020 Mr H reported the transactions of £6,100 and £6,099 to Nationwide. 
Nationwide contacted the receiving bank that day and was told that no funds remained. Mr H 
also reported the matter to the police in February 2020.
Mr H says that after he reported fraud to the parties Ive mentioned above he received 
threats of violence towards himself and his family and was asked to accept the return of half 
of his funds in exchange for withdrawing his referral to Action Fraud. Through mediators 
(who seem to have been acquaintances of S and Mr H rather than qualified mediators) Mr H 
and S reached an agreement that was signed on 13 March 2020. S agreed to make three 
payments to Mr H - £5,500 straight away and then two further payments of £5,000 on 1 April 
and 1 May 2020. The payments were described in the agreement as loan payments, but Mr 
H says S was returning funds and not providing a loan. 
S made the first payment of £5,500 on 13 March 2020 and Mr H emailed Nationwide on 17 
March 2020 to say that he was expecting to receive funds after S agreed to transfer £15,500 
of the £31,000 owed to settle the matter. He explained that £5,500 had already been 
transferred and said this meant Nationwide had Ss account details to chase the remaining 
funds. Mr H says S failed to make the next payment, but after some negotiations agreed to a 
final payment of £10,000. This sum was credited to Mr Hs account on 6 April 2020. Mr H 
then asked S for a further payment of £4,500 as this was the sum outstanding.
On 7 April 2020 Nationwide received a call from another bank that led it to start an 
investigation into Mr Hs account. Nationwide then decided to hold funds in Mr Hs account 
and a family members account which received funds from Mr Hs account. Nationwide also 
decided to close Mr Hs account on 10 April 2020 and added a Cifas marker. The allegations 
made by the third party were retracted shortly afterwards but Nationwide said its decision to 
close Mr Hs account remained unaltered. Nationwide released the funds it held and on 2 
July 2020 removed the Cifas marker. 
Mr H thinks Nationwide should have followed his funds to recover the outstanding sums and 
that it could have done so without freezing his account. He also says Nationwide shouldnt 
have closed his account and added a Cifas marker or taken so long to remove it. He points 
to the email he sent to Nationwide advising that he was due to receive funds. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Hs complaint didnt uphold it. In summary she said 
Nationwide acted reasonably in making the payments of £6,100 and £6,099 as they were not 
unusual or suspicious given Mr Hs previous account and payment history. She noted that 
Mr H had been able to remove all funds before the account was closed. In respect of the 
Cifas marker the investigator said Nationwide acted reasonably in adding it and took 
appropriate action to remove it.  
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. In summary he said:
- Nationwide failed to safeguard him from fraud in making the payments.
- Nationwide failed to pursue the fraudster and trace and recover funds from Ss 
accounts.
- Mr H questioned why Nationwide had frozen his account and applied a fraud marker 
making him look like a criminal when he was the victim of fraud. 
- Hes had to make multiple calls to get the Cifas marker removed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr H when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. 
Did Nationwide act fairly and reasonably in Mr Hs case?
During this services investigation Mr H has provided a newspaper article about the scam he 
says he and others have fallen victim to. This says Mr H invested £36,500 - £11,500 of his 
own and £25,000 belonging to family members. As the investigator has explained, I cant 
consider payments made by family members as part of this complaint. Those family 
members would need to contact their own banks to attempt to recover lost funds. 
Mr H initially made payments to a middle-man who then transferred them to the scammer(s). 
These payments werent made to an account controlled by a fraudster and werent reported 
to Nationwide as scam payments so Im not considering them here. 
Mr H has also explained that the two direct payments he made totalling £12,199 were initially 
invested on behalf of a neighbour who then changed his mind. Mr H says he returned these 
funds to his neighbour, so the loss is his. Even if I accept that Mr H lost funds of his own 
when he made the two payments of £6,100 and £6,099, I dont consider Nationwide acted 
unreasonably in making these payments. This is because Nationwide had no reason to 
question the payments as they were for considerably lower amounts than other payments 
from the account in the six-month period before the them. Even in the month before the 
payments in January 2019 Mr H made two transfers for £8,000 and £4,000, so payments of 
around £6,000 were unremarkable  especially when there were larger transactions before 
this.  
Recovery of funds
Mr H raised a fraud claim with Nationwide on 15 January 2020. It contacted the bank that 
had received the funds on the same day but was later told that no funds remained. This isnt 
surprising, given that almost a year had passed since the payments were made and 
fraudsters usually remove funds quickly. In contacting the receiving bank in a timely manner 
Nationwide has done all I would expect it to. Its not for Nationwide to complete a criminal 
investigation or to investigate Ss other accounts as Mr H suggests. It is also not for 
Nationwide to establish where S sent the funds once he received them. 
Holding payments
When a bank or building society receives a report that an account may not be operated as 
expected it is under a duty to carry out an investigation  and this is what Nationwide did. So 
I consider Nationwide acted reasonably in investigating Mr Hs account, although I 
appreciate that this caused him some inconvenience and stress. Whilst I understand Mr H 
says he was the victim of fraud and shouldnt have been treated as if he was the criminal, 
Nationwide was under a duty to complete its own investigation. While it did so, Nationwide 
placed a hold on certain funds, which is a step Id also expect it to take. This is because it 
was possible that another bank would seek to recover these funds on behalf of a customer if 
it was found they had been received fraudulently. 
Closure of Mr Hs account
Nationwide has explained that it closed Mr Hs account because of security concerns and 
because of Mr Hs management of the account.
Nationwides terms and conditions say,We may close your account immediately and without notice in exceptional circumstances. 
These might include
The terms and conditions go on to list reasons why Nationwide may close an account. By 
using the words, these might include its clear Nationwide didnt intend the list to be 
exhaustive. Having considered Nationwides file, and the confidential information it contains, 
I consider it acted reasonably in closing Mr Hs account without giving the usual notice 
period. 
Cifas marker
The marker that Nationwide filed with Cifas is intended to record that theres been a
misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file
such a marker, Nationwide isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is 
guilty of a fraud of financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than 
mere suspicion or concern. Cifas says:
-There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial
             crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
-The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could
            confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So, I need to consider whether Nationwide has sufficient evidence to meet the standard of
proof and load a marker for misuse of facility with Cifas. Having looked at all the information 
provided, Im satisfied it has. I say this because:
- Ive seen evidence from Nationwide showing that another bank notified it that the
money paid into Mr Hs account in March and April 2020 was fraudulent, so 
Nationwide had reasonable grounds to believe that an identified financial crime had 
been committed.
- The other bank also told Nationwide that the matter had been reported to the police.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Nationwide acted reasonably in applying the marker. 
Nationwide later agreed to remove it, but this doesnt mean it acted incorrectly in applying it 
in the first place. 
Mr H thinks Nationwide took too long to remove the marker, but I dont agree. I can see from 
Nationwides notes that Mr H called Nationwide a number of times during its review period 
when Nationwide was unable to provide much information. The fraud marker wasnt raised 
by Mr H until 29 June 2020 and the marker was then removed in early July. I consider this 
was a reasonable timescale and so Im not making an award to Mr H. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Jay HadfieldOmbudsman