DRN-4066613
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Openwork Limited mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs D was sold the PPI in 2007 around the same time as arranging the mortgage. Although 
it was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up for Mrs D only for unemployment.
Openwork originally objected that Mrs Ds complaint about the policy being mis-sold was out 
of time and therefore could not be looked at. However, another ombudsman has explained 
why we can look at the complaint, albeit in a limited way, due to the DISP rules having a 
limited exception to the PPI deadline for certain mis-selling complaints which relate to a 
more recent claim being made on the policy. Mrs Ds complaint complies with this exception 
as a result of Mrs D making an unemployment claim in 2022, which was the point at which 
she would have understood that the policy may have been mis-sold. However, in this 
scenario, we can only look at the part of the complaint that relates specifically to the issues 
Mrs D was unhappy about when making the claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, although he focused on the more usual aspects 
of PPI sales rather than the issues that came to light during the claim. Mrs D disagrees with 
the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant complaint points are that:
Mrs D understood that she would receive 12 months payments upon making a claim.
She wasnt told that she would be required to sign on for jobseekers allowance (JSA) 
and that she would need to provide evidence of job searches. 
She wasnt told that the policy would not cover any periods of pay in lieu of notice.
The purpose of the policy is to provide cover at a difficult time when someone is unemployed 
and without a salary. Mrs Ds claim ended when she started another job. Im not persuaded 
that Openwork would have told her that any claim would result in a pay out of 12 months 
worth of mortgage repayments. I find it more likely that she was told that any claim could be 
for up to 12 months. 
An insurer is entitled to ask for evidence to prove that a policyholder is actually unemployed. 
This isnt a particularly onerous or unusual clause. And most people who had been made 
redundant would apply for JSA and start looking for other jobs anyway.  I appreciate that Mrs 
D found the whole process of claiming stressful. However, Im not persuaded that if 
Openwork had told her about this requirement in 2007 that she would have changed her 
mind and decided not to buy the policy.
As Ive already mentioned, the policy is designed to cover periods when someone is without 
a salary. Although Mrs D was made redundant in April 2022, she received three months pay 
in lieu of notice. So, although she says she didnt have any money, she had actually been 
paid until July 2022. Again, not covering periods of pay in lieu of notice isnt an onerous or 
unusual clause and is not a significant limitation that I would expect Openwork to draw 
particular attention to. And, whilst Mrs D is unhappy about this clause now, Im again not 
persuaded that she would have changed her mind about buying the policy if she had known 
about this in 2007. Thats because she would have seen the wider benefit of the policy in 
covering her for up to 12 months following any period of pay in lieu of notice.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs D has said, but overall, Im unable to conclude 
that the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman