DRN-4195167
The complaint
Mr A complains that Stonerock Finance Ltd has unfairly charged him a cancellation fee for a 
claim he said he hadnt withdrawn.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr A instructed Stonerock to pursue a claim for a mis-sold packaged bank 
account (PBA) with his bank who Ill refer to as L. In October 2022, L said Mr A had 
closed his claim about the mis-selling of the PBA. And in January 2023 Stonerock told Mr A 
that as hed closed his claim with L hed effectively cancelled his claim with them. But Mr A 
said he hadnt asked L to close his claim. He said Stonerock invoiced him for their 
cancellation fee of £900 and to prevent bailiffs chasing him for the fee hed paid their invoice. 
He complained to Stonerock.
Stonerock said theyd reimburse Mr A the £900 and reopen his claim with L. But Mr A said 
they didnt do this as they saw hed complained to us. They said hed filed a frivolous and 
baseless complaint against them and so they wouldnt reimburse the cancellation fee.
Our investigator said Stonerock should have reimbursed Mr A the cancellation fee, and that 
they should add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to settlement. She also said 
that the situation had caused Mr A distress and inconvenience and so they should pay him 
£100 to compensate him for this.
Stonerock didnt respond to the investigators outcome so Mr As complaint has been referred 
to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, as in this complaint I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened or not considering the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so I uphold this complaint. Ill will explain why.
On 1 April 2019 the regulation of claims  management companies (CMC) moved to the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and complaints to the Claims Management Ombudsman- 
a Financial Ombudsman service. The Financial Ombudsman Service operates according to 
a set of rules made by the FCA. These rules are set out in a section of the FCAs Handbook 
called Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP). Its unfortunate that Stonerock havent 
responded to our requests for information, DISP 1.1.4 says:
Where a complaint against a respondent is referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
the respondent must cooperate fully with the Financial Ombudsman Service and comply 
promptly with any settlements or awards made by it.
So in reaching my decision Ive looked at the evidence provided by Mr A. In October 2022 I 
can see L said Mr A had closed his PBA claim with them, this is something Mr A has 
consistently denied in his testimony. He said hed spoken to L on the telephone but at no 
point had he asked for his mis-sold PBA complaint to be closed. And Ive bot been given any 
reason to doubt Mr As account.  In January 2023 I can see Stonerock said as Mr As mis-
sold PBA complaint had been closed they sought to recover cancellation fees invoicing Mr A 
for £900 (3 hours at £300 per hour). Mr A has shown Stonerock sent him an email in 
February 2023 asking him to pay the overdue cancellation fee of £900, which also said:
.we will commence will Bailiff Legal action to recover our fees if our fees are not satisfied 
within 14 days.
Mr A said to prevent any bailiff action being taken hed paid Stonerock the £900. But he 
sought recovery of this payment as he reiterated, he hadnt asked L to close his claim.  In 
early March 2023 Mr A has shown Stonerock said that they would void the invoice and 
continue with his mis-sold PBA claim. They also told Mr A that L had told them theyd 
rejected his claim as it was time barred. And Stonerock went on to say:
Our Legal team is assessing the rejection, and we intend to appeal the bank decision. In 
the event that our appeal is successful, you may be awarded financial redress. At which 
point we will issue an invoice based on the No-win, No fee percentage agreed when you 
originally instructed our firm.
So, at this point Id consider Mr A still had a No Win  No Fee agreement with Stonerock. 
This means Stonerock would charge a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the 
amount of work they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be 
done for free. If Mr As claim was successful, Stonerocks fee would be more or less than the 
value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of 
agreement. 
But, shortly after this was confirmed with Mr A I can see Stonerock told him that they 
wouldnt proceed with his claim unless he withdrew the complaint, hed brought to us. They 
didnt void the invoice or refund Mr A the £900 hed paid to them.
The Claims Management Conduct of Business sourcebook, CMCOB 2.1.1R says: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its customer
And 
PRIN 2.1.1R(6) says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think Stonerock has acted in Mr As best interest or 
treated him fairly. Im persuaded that Mr A hadnt cancelled his No Win No Fee agreement 
with Stonerock, and so a cancellation fee isnt justified. Neither is a fee justified under the No 
Win No Fee agreement Mr A had with Stonerock as his mis-sold PBA complaint wasnt 
successful.
Stonerock told Mr A they wouldnt pursue his mis-sold PBA complaint unless he withdrew 
the complaint hed brought to us. They also told him theyd send their casefile to us and 
recordings of calls they had with L, but they havent done this despite our requests. I cant 
see Stonerock took any action to progress Mr As mis-sold PBA claim further after they were told by L that his complaint had been rejected for example by referring the complaint to this 
service to consider whether the rejection by L was fair and reasonable. So, as Mr As mis-
sold PBA complaint was unsuccessful under a No Win No Fee agreement, Stonerock 
couldnt charge him a fee. But I can see that theyve looked to retain the £900 Mr A paid to 
them which I dont think is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Stonerock should refund Mr A the £900 cancellation fee hes paid to 
them, plus 8% simple interest from the date Mr A made the payment to the date of 
settlement. And Stonerock should pay Mr A £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to him, not only by the concern of legal action being taken against him, but also for the way 
Mr A was treated when hed looked to seek a resolution to his complaint.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Stonerock Finance Ltd to:
Refund Mr A the £900 cancellation fee hed paid, plus *8% simple interest from the 
date paid to the date of settlement; and
£100 for distress and inconvenience.
*Should HM Revenue & Customs require Stonerock Finance Ltd to take off tax from this 
interest. Stonerock Finance Ltd must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax they 
have taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman