DRN-4222768
The complaint
Mrs A complains she was mis-sold an investment into a minibond held in an ISA wrapper by 
EGR WEALTH LIMITED (formerly EGR Brokers). She says she was led to believe the 
investment was secure but interest due hasnt been paid or her capital returned. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs A invested around £20,000 in a bond. She was due to receive interest 
at a rate of rate 8.1% per annum, with payments to be paid twice a year in June and 
December. She also took out an ISA wrapper at the same time that the investment was 
placed within. She was initially introduced to the opportunity by a third party before being 
referred on to EGR. She completed the required application paperwork provided by EGR  
this included a suitability and appropriateness test. Mrs A invested a further £20,000 in May 
2020 into the same product, which was to be held in her ISA. Again, she completed an 
application process through EGR. 
In January 2022, Mrs A received notice from the bond issuer of continued delayed payments 
of interest. In May 2022, EGR sent Mrs A an update from the bond issuer, which again 
apologised for the lack of communication regarding interest payments and explaining further 
issues with the performance of the investment. 
Following this Mrs A contacted our service, and we forwarded her complaint to EGR to 
provide her with a response. 
EGR issued a final response letter. It didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
The person who introduced Mrs A to the investment wasnt an agent of EGR. The 
role of the introducer is to provide the clients with the EGR documentation with all its 
disclosures and warnings.
EGR was always the execution only broker and platform provider for the transaction 
and did not advise Mrs A. As such EGR never did any selling. It only provided 
administrative services, and all of this was clearly stated on the documents signed by 
Mrs A.
Mrs A filled in all of the relevant sections of the account opening documentation and 
signed acknowledgment of risk warnings. The allegation of being mis sold is 
patently contrasted by every document that EGR provided. 
EGR clearly and expressly stated that the investment was high risk and not protected 
by the FSCS. The allegation of being safe or protected is contrasted by every 
document it provided and Mrs A signed. 
Mrs A didnt agree and asked this service to complete an independent review of her 
complaint. One of our investigators considered Mrs A's complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld.
He said, in summary:
Mrs A didnt meet the criteria of a "restricted investor and EGR didnt take the 
appropriate steps to ascertain she met the criteria as per the regulatory requirement.
The assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for Mrs A didn't gather sufficient 
information to comply with the FCA's rules.
Overall, EGR didn't comply with its regulatory obligations. Had it done so, Mrs A 
wouldn't have decided to invest or EGR should have concluded that it shouldn't allow 
her to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to 
uphold the complaint and for EGR to put Mrs A as close to the position she would 
probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond.
EGR didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. In summary it said:
EGR provided execution only services to Mrs A where it did not make any
personal recommendation for the purposes of COBS 9. Therefore, there was no
requirement to assess her suitability for the bond. She was also provided with 
numerous warnings confirming this and that she did not benefit from any protections 
as a consequence.
It satisfied the requirement to assess Mrs A for her appropriateness for the product 
and had gathered sufficient information to do so through the application process. 
Based on the information received at the time Mrs A appeared appropriate for the 
product and since then insufficient evidence has been produced to contradict this 
view. 
At no point between her initial investment and complaint, has Mrs A attempted to 
request a disinvestment. To date it is unclear whether she has suffered any loss  
and it is noted she has received a total of £4,751.73 in dividend payments, which 
EGR forwarded to her nominated bank account.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What role did EGR play in the sale of the investment?
Ive firstly considered EGRs involvement in the arrangements of Mrs As investment. It says 
it provided an execution only service and it didnt did not make a personal recommendation 
or assessment of suitability. Ive considered the submissions EGR make on this point. I 
accept there isnt evidence of regulated advice being provided by EGR. This isnt an 
allegation made by Mrs A either. So, Ive looked at the evidence available to show what 
EGRs involvement was. 
Mrs A refers to a third-party introducer telling her about the investment opportunity. From the 
evidence available she was then referred on to EGR to complete the transaction. Ive seen 
details of the application process and what EGR was involved in. There is evidence of an 
application form provided by EGR that consisted of two stages, designed to meet 
the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investments were appropriate for the potential investor. There are application forms for both 
tranches of the investment Mrs A made  February 2020 and May 2020. Within these Mrs A 
completed a certification and was categorised as a restricted investor. There was also an 
appropriateness test which asked questions about Mrs As knowledge and experience. 
There is also evidence of EGR notifying Mrs A of receipt of funds notification and also 
included confirmation of issuing a contract note when the investment had been successfully 
placed. Its clear that EGR played an active and significant role in the arrangements of Mrs As 
investments. I am satisfied Mrs As complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bond was a 
security or contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mrs A made her investment, 
the RAO said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. Acts such as 
obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it off, with the 
clients payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 25(1), 
when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I am 
satisfied the application process falls within the scope of Article 25(1). It involved making 
arrangements for Mrs A to invest and had the direct effect of bringing about the transactions.
Did EGR meet its obligations to Mrs A in the arrangement of the investments?
Mrs As complaint concerns what she considers to be a mis-sale of the bond. Im satisfied 
that this includes EGR applying relevant tests regarding investor categorisation and 
appropriateness. Therefore, I will first set out the relevant considerations when looking at the 
application process EGR conducted before allowing Mrs A to invest.
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether
EGR met its regulatory obligations when it carried out the acts the complaint is about. I 
consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular relevance here.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
The bond Mrs A applied for was a non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who this type of product could be promoted to and how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. 
These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. I have set out below what I consider to 
be the relevant rules, in the form they existed at the time.
COBS 4.7 - Direct offer financial promotions
COBS 4.7.7R said:
(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a direct-
offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security a P2P agreement or a 
P2P portfolio to or for communication to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) 
being satisfied.(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial promotion is 
one of the following:
(a) certified as a high net worth investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(b) certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(c) self-certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R; or
(d) certified as a restricted investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R.
(3) The second condition is that the firm itself or:
(a) the person who will arrange or deal in relation to the non-readily realisable security; or
(b) the person who will facilitate the retail client becoming a lender under a P2P agreement 
or a P2P portfolio, will comply with the rules on appropriateness (see COBS 10 and COBS 
10A) or equivalent requirements for any application or order that the firm or person is aware, 
or ought reasonably to be aware, is in response to the direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10  Appropriateness
At the time COBS 10.1.2 R said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable 
security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client, other than in the course of MiFID or 
equivalent third country business, or facilitates a retail client becoming a lender under a P2P 
agreement and the firm is aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, that the application or 
order is in response to a direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10.2.1R said:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client
to provide information regarding her knowledge and experience in the investment
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for
the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the client has
the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in
relation to the product or service offered or demanded. 
COBS 10.2.2R said:
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment
field includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and
extent of the service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged,
including their complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client
is familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
COBS 10.2.6G said:
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge
alone is sufficient for her to understand the risks involved in a product or service.
Where reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience.
COBS 10.3.1R said:(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm
must warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R said:
(1) If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess
appropriateness, or if she provides insufficient information regarding her knowledge
and experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the
firm to determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for him.
COBS 10.3.3G said:
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning
by the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the
circumstances.
Having taken careful account of these relevant considerations, to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances, and given careful consideration to all EGR has said, Im
satisfied the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain my findings below.
Certification
The first condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required a retail client, such as Mrs A, to be 
certified as being in one of four categories of investor in order to receive promotional 
communications relating to the bonds. In this case, Mrs A was certified as a restricted 
investor. 
The detail of this category and the process by which an investor can certify themselves as 
belonging to it is set out in COBS 4.7.10R
4.7.10R requires the prospective investor to agree to all of the following:
In the twelve months preceding the certification date, not to have invested more than 
10% of their net assets in non-readily realisable securities. 
To undertake that in the twelve months following the certification date, they will not 
invest more than 10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities. 
To accept that the investments may expose them to a significant risk of losing all of 
the money invested. 
To be aware that it is open to them to seek advice from an authorised person who 
specialises in advising on non-readily realisable securities.
During our investigation we have asked Mrs A about her circumstances at the time. Mrs A 
has explained that she had limited savings and the money invested in these bonds was 
effectively most of her savings  meaning more than the 10% requirement. I note EGRs 
point that the May 2020 application records that Mrs A had £250,000 in investable assets. It 
says is not inconceivable to assess that the amount invested by Mrs A would fall under this 
threshold. This level of assets is contrary to the information provided by Mrs A about her 
circumstances. So, I accept there is some uncertainty whether she met the 10% threshold or 
not.
Ive also thought about whether it is clear that Mrs A did have a full understanding of the 
risks based on her circumstances. I havent seen anything that suggest to me that her experience and knowledge would have given her the required understanding of the risks she 
was taking by investing. 
The February 2020 application form did ask Mrs A questions about her knowledge and 
experience. These include whether she had been in a position that requires financial 
knowledge relevant to the product  this was answered No. It was then asked whether she 
currently held this type of investment or a similar one  this is answered Yes, but no further 
detail is given on what this might be in relation to. The next question asked whether she had 
made an investment in this type of instrument in the last 12 months  her answer to this 
question was No. She also has answered Yes to say she had the experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks in relation the product offered. 
Having considered this evidence, Im not persuaded that I should place significant weight on 
it when considering Mrs As knowledge and experience. In my view there are inconsistencies 
with the answers, and as they are tick box yes or no answers, there is lack of detail to 
understand what this actually tells us about her Mrs As knowledge and experience. On the 
one hand it seems possible Mrs A could have invested before, despite her testimony within 
this complaint saying she hadnt. But on the other hand, I note the assumption made by the 
investigator that this likely refers to the investment Mrs As husband took out a couple of 
months earlier in the same product. It appears Mrs A and her husband viewed their 
investments as being held under a joint portfolio as throughout the complaints theyve made 
they refer to joint losses. Im not persuaded that this answer in the application form is 
sufficient to persuade me Mrs A had knowledge and understanding of the product she was 
investing in. 
Mrs A also signed to say she qualified as a restricted investor. I note this declaration did 
largely mirror what is set out about in 4.7.10R, but it is unclear that this is an accurate 
declaration. In my view, I think it unlikely Mrs A knowingly gave a false statement, rather I 
think it is more likely she did not consider the detail or relevance of what she was being 
asked to agree to. 
This means all means I have significant concerns about whether EGR certified Mrs A 
correctly and therefore acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligation. In this 
situation Mrs A could not have gone passed this stage. But even if Im wrong about this and 
Mrs A would have met the certification requirements, I have other concerns that mean Mrs A 
hasnt been treated fairly - I will now consider the appropriateness test.
Appropriateness test
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required EGR to comply with the rules on
appropriateness, set out in COBS 10 and quoted earlier in my findings. The rules at the time 
(COBS 10.2.1R) required EGR to ask Mrs A to provide information regarding her knowledge 
and experience  and for this information to be relevant to the product offered (the first limb 
of the rule). The rules required that information to then be assessed, to determine whether 
Mrs A did have the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks 
involved (the second limb of the rule).
As set out above, COBS 10.2.2 R required EGR, when considering what information to ask 
for, to consider the nature of the service provided and the type of product (including its 
complexity and risks). It needed to think about asking questions on:
the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client
is familiar;
the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments 
and the period over which they have been carried out;
the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client.Having reviewed the appropriateness test Mrs A was directed to complete during the
her initial application in February 2020, Im not persuaded EGR, asked for an appropriate 
amount of information about Mrs As knowledge and experience, as required by COBS 
10.2.1R and COBS 10.2.2 R.
As explained above, the questions asked were limited and the answers given by Mrs A do 
not demonstrate the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks. 
Whilst I accept that, depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's 
knowledge alone is sufficient for her to understand the risks involved in a product or service 
(COBS 10.2.6G), Im not persuaded Mrs A had the sufficient knowledge here. 
I note when Mrs A came to make the top up a few months later more questions were asked. 
But again, these were tick box answers and no details is given beyond Mrs As yes or no 
answers. There was a further request to give details but these were left blank.  So, for the 
same reasons already mentioned, it seems likely the previous experience she had was 
linked to the bond her and her husband had taken out only months earlier. I havent seen 
any other evidence that she held investments of this type prior. 
Taking all of the evidence into account, Im not persuade EGR did adequately test whether 
Mrs A had the knowledge to understand the risk associated with the bond  I think this is 
particularly relevant for the initial sale as this appears to be the first time she has invested in 
this type of complex investment. The evidence available all supports that her experience and 
level of knowledge was limited. The risks of the bonds were complex and multifactorial. It 
was not, for example, a question of whether Mrs A simply understood money could be lost  
but whether she was able to understand how likely that might be and what factors might lead 
to it happening. 
As the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met EGR was unable to carry out the assessment 
required under the second limb. EGR should have been confident, from the information it 
asked for, that it was able to assess if Mrs A had the necessary experience and knowledge 
in order to understand the risks involved with investment in the bond. But it was not in a 
position to make such an assessment, based on the information it obtained. I accept that 
taking Mrs As appropriate test answers in isolation would suggest she knew her capital 
would be at risk, But as mentioned, Ive not seen that this would demonstrate an 
understanding of how likely it would be that she could lose her capital and/or what factors 
might lead to it happening.
Had EGR followed its obligations, I think the most likely conclusion it would have reached, 
was that Mrs A E did not have the necessary experience and knowledge to understand 
the risks involved with the bond. And for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think the fact Mrs A 
had taken at the first bond gave her the experience required or means that a different 
conclusion should be met about the second sale. As previously mentioned, COBS 10.2.2 R 
required EGR to consider the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in 
designated investments and I dont think one previous investment is sufficient for it to have 
determined Mrs A had the required knowledge and experience  especially as this forms 
part of the same mis-selling complaint.
If EGR assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS 10.3.1R said a warning must be 
given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business could consider whether, in the 
circumstances, to go ahead with the transaction if the client wished to proceed, despite the 
warning. Ive explained my concerns about the testing of Mrs As knowledge and experience, 
and had it adequately tested this, EGR would have come to the conclusion that the bond 
wasnt appropriate for her in the first place (so the later top up would not be either).A clear, emphatic statement would have left Mrs A in no doubt the bond was not an
appropriate investment for her. And she ought to have been privy to such a warning, had her 
appropriateness been tested in line with the requirements of the rules. Even if Mrs A still said 
she wanted to proceed after being given a warning, I still think there is more EGR needed to 
do if it had asked for appropriate information about Mrs As knowledge and experience. In 
these circumstances, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for EGR to conclude it 
should not allow Mrs A to proceed. Had Mrs A been asked for appropriate information about 
her knowledge and experience this would have shown she may not have the capacity to fully 
understand the risk associated with the bonds. Ive seen no evidence to show Mrs A had 
anything other than a basic knowledge of investments. So, it would not have been fair and 
reasonable for EGR, to conclude it should proceed if Mrs A wanted to, despite a warning 
(which, as noted, was not in any event given).
In summary, Im satisfied EGR did not act fairly and reasonably when assessing 
appropriateness. By assessing appropriateness in the way it did, it was not treating Mrs A 
fairly or acting in her best interests. If it had acted fairly and reasonably to meet the relevant 
regulatory obligations when assessing appropriateness, Mrs A would not have got beyond 
this stage.
I have noted the comments EGR make about the risk warnings contained in the Information 
Memorandum (IM). As the second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and 
things could not have proceeded beyond this, this means Mrs A shouldnt have received the 
IM at all. And so, any information within that cannot now reasonably be relied on to show she 
was aware of the risks associated with the bond. I acknowledge it is unclear at what point (if 
at all) Mrs A receive the IM. But in any event, Ive also not seen sufficient evidence to show 
Mrs A had the capacity to fully understand the IM  a lengthy and complex document  given 
her limited knowledge and experience. As such, EGR cant fairly rely on any possible 
reading of this as a means to correct the failings set out above.
Is it fair to ask EGR to compensate Mrs A?
EGR says during the application process Mrs A was informed that capital is at risk, and full 
capital loss is possible and despite this evidence Mrs A proceeded to invest in the bond 
regardless of what it did. However, I do not think it would be fair to say Mrs A should not be 
compensated on this basis.
Firstly, Mrs A should not have been able to proceed if EGR acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet its regulatory obligations. I acknowledge that other parties may have caused or 
contributed to Mrs As losses but, notwithstanding that, Im satisfied it is fair to ask EGR to 
compensate Mrs A as the appropriateness test was a critical stage, for which it was 
responsible for.
Secondly, for the reasons I have given, I am not in any event persuaded Mrs A did proceed
with a full understanding of the risks associated with the bond. I am not persuaded she 
looked at the full detail of the acknowledgements she gave, given what Mrs A has said about 
her understanding of the bond and her lack of investment experience. I am not persuaded 
Mrs A had the capacity to fully understand the risks associated with the bond  and she was 
in this position because EGR did not act fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations at the outset. Im therefore satisfied it is fair to ask EGR to compensate Mrs A for 
the losses she claims.
I note EGR has questioned whether Mrs A has actually suffered a loss on her investment. 
Based on my understanding of the situation, it seems the investment is illiquid and the 
likelihood of any return of capital is remote. But I have covered this scenario in the section 
below setting out what EGR needs to do to put things right. I also note that EGR raise a point that Mrs A has received dividends from the investment that were paid to her bank 
account. These payments should be considered as part of the loss calculation and, where 
appropriate, a deduction made from any loss identified. Again, I cover this in the section 
below setting out what EGR needs to do. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
A as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond 
 both initially and the top up.
I take the view that Mrs A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs A's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must EGR do?
To compensate Mrs A fairly, EGR must:
Compare the performance of each of Mrs A's investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
EGR should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mrs A £350 for upset caused by the total loss of the investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
February 
2020 Access 
BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
May 2020 
Access BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs A agrees to EGR taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for EGR to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs A that she repays to EGR any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, EGR should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
As noted, I understand dividend income has been paid out of the investments. This should 
be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if EGR totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs A wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs A's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs A would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that EGR WEALTH LIMITED should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
EGR WEALTH LIMITED should provide details of its calculation to Mrs A in a clear, simple 
format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman