DRN-3481859
The complaint
Mr B complains about how esure Insurance Limited has handled a repair to his car following 
a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
In brief, in 2017, Mr B had an accident in his car for which he claimed on his car insurance 
policy with esure. esure arranged for repairs to be done but Mr B was unhappy with the 
quality of some of them. So Mr B complained to us.
In September 2019, the investigator who looked at this complaint said esure should replace 
the rear bumper on Mr Bs car. esure agreed to this. I understand the bumper was replaced 
in August 2020. Mr B is unhappy with the time it took to get this done, and with the service 
he got from esure and its repairer, and so he brought another complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr Bs complaint upheld it. Among other things, she said    
Mr B had to chase esure on several occasions for updates and there were substantial gaps 
in this period where no action was taken by esure to get Mr Bs car repaired. So she said 
esure should pay Mr B £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused 
him.
When Mr B brought this complaint to us, he said he was looking for substantial 
compensation. So hes asked our investigator to reconsider the £250 she has 
recommended. 
esure disagrees with our investigators view. It says its repairer made several efforts to 
contact Mr B to have his car repaired and that its actions in carrying out the repairs have 
been fair. esure also says it agreed to pay £300 foradditional repairs to Mr Bs car to save 
any further issues.
Mr Bs complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I think its fair and reasonable for 
esure to pay Mr B £250 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of his car bumper 
replacement has caused him.
To explain why, I need to look at the timeline for Mr Bs bumper replacement.
In September 2019, our first investigator gave esure his view that it should replace Mr Bs 
bumper, which esure accepted.
In October 2019, our investigator wrote to esure saying Mr B has now been waiting over a 
month for someone [from esure] to speak with him about the replacement. On the same 
day, according to esures internal records, it left a message on Mr Bs voicemail about 
getting his bumper replaced.
In November 2019, according to esures records, Mr B called to say hed been hoping the 
replacement could be carried out at a friends garage but this wasnt possible. The same 
records show esure then contacted its repairer and asked it to contact Mr B to arrange for 
the work to be done.
In February 2020, esure says it was contacted by our investigator for an update on what was 
happening. esure replied to our investigator the same day saying its repairer had tried to 
speak to [Mr B] on a number of occasions without success and he didnt return any of their 
calls. esure went on to say: Our position remains that we can either consider an estimate 
from [Mr Bs] choice of repairer, or we can get his car back to [esures repairer]. If he 
chooses the latter then he can call them directly on [ phone number].
In April 2020, esures internal records show Mr B phoned again to say he hadnt heard about 
his bumper replacement. The notes by the person who took the call say they emailed two 
different departments at esure to look into his repair issue, not sure who's actually 
supposed to deal with it.
In June 2020, esures internal records show Mr B phoned again and that he was extremely 
unhappy no one has got back to him regarding problems with [his] vehicle. We also wrote to 
esure at this time saying Mr B said he has been chasing the settlement for ages. A few 
days later, the repairers contacted Mr B to book his car in and I understand the repairs were 
carried out in early August 2020.
esure says it doesnt think it should pay any compensation for poor service or delay in 
getting Mr Bs car repaired. It says this is because the repairer had been trying to get in 
touch with Mr B to book the car in but he didnt return its calls. esure says it made it clear 
what it had been doing in its response to our service in February 2020, when it also gave us 
the repairers phone number. esure says from then until June 2020 it had simply been 
waiting for Mr B to book his car in.
Weve asked esure if its repairer has records of the calls it says it made to Mr B. The repairer 
says it doesnt. But esure has given us a call recording between it and the repairer from 
February 2020 in which the repairer says it was calling and calling Mr B. From the 
recording, it isnt clear how long the repairer was calling and calling for.
Mr B says no-one got in touch with him, while the repairer says Mr B wasnt returning its 
calls. But if someone isnt returning calls for a repair thats being covered by an insurance 
company, Id expect the repairer to report this to the insurer  so that it could then get in 
touch with its insured to see if there was a problem. It seems that didnt happen until our 
service got in touch with esure in February 2020, which Is when esure then contacted the 
repairer for an update  by which time three months had already passed since esure had 
told Mr B a repairer would be in touch with him. 
After our service did get in touch, it seems esure left it to Mr B to decide either to get a quote 
for the repairs himself (which hed already said he couldnt) or to book the car in himself. 
Thats not the sort of approach Id expect esure to take in the circumstances of this claim.
Its also clearly not what Mr B was expecting either, because in April 2020, he was again 
phoning esure to ask what was happening with his bumper replacement. From what Ive 
seen, esure didnt respond to Mr Bs request for an update in April. It was only in June, after Mr B again asked for an update, and also got our service involved again, that the repairer 
contacted Mr B to get his car booked in. Thats not the level of customer service Id expect of 
esure
By June 2020, esures internal records were describing Mr B as extremely unhappy. Mr B 
also describes his communications with esures third parties as diabolical. Its clear Mr Bs 
experience with esure from November 2019 to June 2020 was frustrating. He also had the 
inconvenience of having to chase for updates, at least one of which it seems esure didnt 
respond to at all. 
As Ive highlighted in this decision, I think esure has made a number of mistakes in the way it 
handled the replacement of Mr Bs car bumper. These mistakes led to a delay in Mr B 
getting his car repaired. This has caused Mr B frustration and inconvenience, as Ive 
described. And for this reason, even though I acknowledge esures repairer says it tried to 
contact Mr B, I think its fair and reasonable for esure to pay him £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him.
I know when Mr B first brought this complaint to us he said he was looking for substantial 
compensation. I understand the issues with Mr Bs car repairs were ongoing for some years 
 his accident was in 2017 and the final repair was done in 2020. But Im looking only at 
what happened in the months leading up to the replacement of Mr Bs car bumper from 
November 2019 to June 2020. And for the reasons, Ive given I think the compensation Im 
awarding is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience Mr B has suffered in that 
period.
I should mention that, when Mr B first brought this complaint to us, he had concerns about 
some other things, including the legal expenses insurance he took out after his car accident 
and the conduct of the solicitors involved in his personal injury claim. Our investigator has 
explained our thinking on these things to Mr B. I have nothing to add to what our investigator 
has said and, from what Ive seen, Mr B understands and accepts our investigators 
explanation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr B £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its handling of his car 
repair has caused him.
esure Insurance Limited should pay this compensation within 28 days of the date we tell it 
Mr B has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, esure Insurance Limited must pay interest 
on the compensation at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman