DRN-3697757
The complaint
Mr H complains that his personal possessions insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly 
limited his claim for loss of possessions that were stolen from his car.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
In December 2021 Mr H returned from a long trip away and put his possessions into the 
boot of his car, and parked it in a car park. He said the next morning he found his car had 
been broken into and his possessions stolen. He made a claim to Ageas and said that it 
confirmed to him by phone that he was covered up to a value of £40,000.
Ageas offered Mr H payment for his claim up to £1,000, which it said is the limit stated on 
page 10 of the policy booklet. Ageas cited the relevant policy term:
Theft from unattended road vehicles other than from a locked concealed luggage boot, 
concealed luggage compartment or glove compartment following forcible and violent entry to 
a securely locked vehicle. The maximum amount payable in respect of any one occurrence 
shall not exceed £1,000.
Ageas contemporaneous notes of calls show that Mr H notified his claim on 13 December 
2021 and Ageas agent asked for a list of stolen items. Mr H called again on 22 December 
concerned about obtaining and formatting details of his loss. There were further calls in 
January 2022 and on 18 January Mr H sent his list of stolen items and gave his claim value 
as about £4,000. Ageas agent said, we have a limit of £1,000 for any theft from a motor 
vehicle. Mr H said he was unaware of this. Further calls followed and Mr H said hed not 
been told about the £1,000 limit on thefts from a car by anyone in the past, in fact hed been 
told he was covered up to £40,000, and he complained.
Ageas responded to Mr Hs complaint in January 2021 saying it had reviewed his calls and 
hadnt told him he was covered up to £40,000. Ageas confirmed its decision to limit Mr Hs 
claim and referred to the £1,000 policy limit (above). 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service saying hed provided a list of his stolen items at 
Ageas request, but Ageas then told him he was only covered up to a value of £1,000. Mr H 
said hed been misled throughout the claim process and this has caused him distress. He 
would like Ageas to cover his claim to its full value of around £6,000  7,000. 
Mr H listened to Ageas recording of their calls and said he felt sure one call was missing. He 
didnt think the limit applied to his personal possessions based on the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) he has seen on the insurers website. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld saying Ageas should pay Mr 
Hs claim. She thought Mr H would have acted differently had he been made aware that the 
exclusion Ageas relied on extended to personal possessions. She didnt think that the 
exclusion was bought to his attention as within the IPID it only states: What is Not Insured  
Service Equipment  Theft from a road vehicle unless the vehicle was locked and the items 
hidden from view. Maximum payable £1,000  and doesnt refer to personal possessions.
Ageas disagreed saying that policy sets out the limits for items requiring concealment and 
the maximum sum payable can be found there. It said the section the investigator referred to 
from the IPID omits personal possessions, but that is present in the policy wording. Ageas 
said the investigators outcome didnt reflect the agreement it made with Mr H. It said Mr H 
bears a level of responsibility to read and understand his policy. 
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I said I intended only to uphold the complaint in part.
I said Mr Hs policy includes an overall limit for contents of £40,000. Most contents policies 
include limits within the overall limit such as for high value goods or items away from home. 
Mr Hs policy includes a £1,000 limit for items stolen from unattended vehicles unless all the 
items are concealed, and this serves to limit an insurers liability where a policyholder may 
not have taken adequate precautions to prevent a theft. 
This limitation is set out on the first page of Section 1 of the policy booklet and repeated in 
section 2 Contents in the home. I thought this is sufficiently prominent to alert a policyholder 
to its presence and the wording and effect on claims is clear. Theres no reference to an 
overall limit of £40,000 within the policy booklet. Mr Hs insurance schedule states an overall 
sum insured of £40,000 with single article and valuable limits within this. The document 
refers policyholders to the policy booklet for details of limitations. 
I could see Mr Hs point about the IPID as it only refers to service equipment when 
mentioning the limitation on claims. However, the IPID states its only intended to provide a 
summary of the main coverage and exclusions, and refers policyholders to their policy 
documents for full details. I didnt think the IPID would be where policyholders would expect 
to gain the detail of their cover that they could rely on. 
I didnt think there was good reason for Mr H to be influenced by the IPID and so I thought 
about what he might have known when he took out his policy and made his claim. The policy 
booklet was available to Mr H with full details about the limit from the start. Mr H complained 
to Ageas and to us in January 2022, but his first reference to the limit only applying to 
service equipment and not personal possessions, was in July 2022 when he sent us a copy 
of the IPID. Since Mr H first mentioned the IPID six months after his complaint, I disagreed 
with the investigator that hed relied on the IPID or was influenced by it in any way. 
I found no reference to the advice Mr H said he was given about the claim being covered to 
£40,000. Mr H hadnt said where in a call this took place and so I didnt think Ageas raised 
Mr Hs expectations on this point. The first reference Id seen to the £1,000 limit was during 
one of Mr Hs calls on 18 January 2022 when Ageas agent told him this would apply to his 
claim. 
But I thought Ageas could have managed Mr Hs expectations better by informing him 
straightaway of the £1,000 limit and saving him time in providing information that wasnt 
needed. Although I didnt think this affected his claim, I thought Ageas should pay him £100 
compensation for not communicating as well as it should.
I thought the limitation on Mr Hs claim was clearly set out and it was fair for Ageas to apply it 
in the circumstances. I hadnt found anything to suggest that Mr H was told anything different 
about the policy limit. Mr H disagreed with the provisional decision. He said hed obtained his call history and there 
were three calls before the first call Ageas had disclosed. His record showed they were fairly 
short calls on 13 December 2021, of about 26 minutes in total. He said he remained certain 
hed been told the claim limit was £40,000. He said hed taken out the policy as he wanted 
cover for his possessions whilst away from home.
Ageas responded that the first call of around 10 minutes had no data because Mr H was on 
hold waiting to get through to the claims department. It said the next two calls were to the 
broker and it didnt have the details about them. Ageas said the next call, which both parties 
agreed upon, had hold time for the first 10 minutes when Mr H was waiting to reach a 
member of staff. It then contained details of Mr Hs claim but no reference to a claim limit of 
£40,000.
The broker also responded to say that there had been a short call on 13 December 2021 
with Mr H where he said his car had been broken into and he was given the claims contact 
number and email address. The broker said there were no details of two other calls, and it 
thought this was because if a caller selects the claims option the call goes through to Ageas 
and the broker cant record it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint concerns Ageas decision to apply a £1,000 limit to his claim and that he 
was told by Ageas he would be covered up to the policy limit for contents of £40,000.
Ive looked again at Mr Hs claim, and in particular the communications between himself and 
Ageas to see if it has acted in accordance with his policy and to see if it has treated him 
fairly.
Having done so, I still havent seen anything to show that Mr H was misinformed about the 
policy limit for his claim or had his expectations unfairly raised. The calls to which Mr H has 
referred have been explained by Ageas and Mr H hasnt shown that it misinformed him.
The limitation on Mr Hs claim is prominent within his policy booklet with clear wording and 
so there was no reason for him to believe when he made his claim that it would be paid 
above the £1,000 limit. 
Having thought again about the communications from Ageas to Mr H I remain of the view 
that these could have been managed better by early communication of the £1,000 limit. This 
would have saved Mr H time in providing information that wasnt needed. I still dont think 
this affected Mr Hs claim, but Ageas should pay him £100 compensation for not managing 
his time as well as it should.
It remains open to Mr H to bring a separate complaint about the policy broker if he feels hes 
received poor or misleading treatment of his claim. But this wouldnt concern payment of the 
claim itself as that is the subject of the present complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above and within my provisional decision the complaint is 
upheld in part. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr H £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered. I do not require it to pay Mr Hs claim above the 
policy limit of £1,000. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman