DRN-4406619
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In November 2021 Mr R received a friend request on social media from someone Ill refer to 
as the scammer. He checked her profile and could see she had a lot of photographs and 
posts with comments and interactions, so he accepted the request and began exchanging 
messages. The scammer told Mr R that hed appeared as a suggested friend and after a few 
weeks, they began to communicate on Telegram.
She eventually told him that in addition to her job, she also invested in cryptocurrency. She 
didnt push him to invest but she occasionally mentioned how her investments were 
performing. She told him she used a trading platform Ill refer to as P, which Mr R 
researched, noting the website seemed professional and included information indicating it 
was a genuine company. He also discovered it had a social media page which included 
videos about trading. He checked the reviews on Trustpilot, which were positive, and he 
noted it was registered on Companies House with a registered office in London.
The scammer told Mr R to open an account with P, which required him to upload personal 
information and a copy of his ID as part of the KYC and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) 
checks. He received an email confirming the account had been verified and the scammer 
told him the minimum investment for a beginner would be £1,000, and the deluxe option 
would require £5,000.
Mr R was assigned a broker who explained the scammer would receive a bonus for the 
referral. The returns would be dependent on what he invested but the returns would be 
positive. He said he would guide Mr R on which trades to place and advised him to first 
purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load it onto 
an online wallet. Between 12 May 2022 and 12 December 2022, he made 26 payments to 
two cryptocurrency exchange companies totalling £75,215.41 using a Visa debit card 
connected to his HSBC account. This included transaction fees totalling £1,418.18.
On 12 May 2022 Mr R made an initial payment of £817.39. Then on 6 September 2022, he 
paid £4,370.25 for a deluxe account. In October 2022, he made further payments totalling 
£13,244.28, and in November and December 2022 he paid £16,528.47 and £38,453.44.
At the end of December 2022 Mr R was told he needed to pay the annual account fee of 
£20,000, so he asked his brother to lend him the money and he was subsequently alerted to 
the fact hed been scammed.
Mr R complained to HSBC, but it refused to refund any of the money hed lost. It advised him 
to contact the cryptocurrency exchange and provided advice on how to avoid scams in the 
future. It explained he wasnt entitled to a refund as the payments were made to an external 
account in his name and as hed authenticated and authorised the payments, they were 
authorised card scam transactions.
It said its fraud detection systems highlighted the first payment, which Mr R confirmed was 
genuine, and this negated the need to follow up on further individual transactions. It also said 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code didnt apply to card payments and he 
wasnt entitled to a refund under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 as he had 
authenticated and authorised the payments.
Mr R complained to this service with the assistance of a representative. He explained he 
wasnt an experienced investor and had believed the investment was genuine because he 
was asked to send ID, he had access to the trading portal and had carried out extensive 
research. He argued that HSBC failed to recognise the unusual activity on his account, and it 
should have provided relevant fraud warnings and asked appropriate questions which could 
have prevented his loss. He said he wanted it to refund the money hed lost and pay him 
£500 compensation and legal costs.
Mr Rs representative said HSBC should have intervened as Mr R made 14 payments to a 
new payee linked to cryptocurrency within the space of 8 months and this represented a 
missed opportunity to intervene to provide an effective warning.
The representative argued the payments were large amounts to new payees and Mr R made 
multiple payments in single days using funds from loans and other accounts which was 
clearly unusual as he primarily used the account for day-to-day payments, bill payments, 
direct debits and living expenses. In particular, on 6 September 2022, he sent £4,370.25 to 
the cryptocurrency exchange company, which should have alerted HSBC to the possibility of 
fraud. It should have contacted him and provided advice about the risk of scams, in 
response to which he would have sought to establish P was legitimate.
They said HSBC sent a text message when Mr R made the first payment. The message 
required to confirm the payment was genuine, after which he was able to make payments 
freely without any contact, effective pop-up notification or scam warnings. They argued that if 
it had asked him what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, he would 
have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had originated from a broker.
And even though he was sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, it should 
have still provided a scam warning considering all the information known to banks about the 
increasing number of scams associated with cryptocurrency.
My provisional findings
I explained that the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. HSBC has had said the CRM code didnt apply in this case because the 
code doesnt apply to card payments, and I was satisfied thats fair.
I also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Mr Rs payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr R).Mr Rs own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Rs payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore I was satisfied that HSBCs decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
I was satisfied Mr R authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Mr R is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute this was a scam, but although Mr R didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
I thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id seen, the 
payments were made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, HSBC had 
an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I needed to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr R when he tried to 
make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting Mr R from financial harm due to fraud.
The initial payment flagged on HSBCs systems, and he was required to confirm it was 
genuine before it was released. I considered the first payment in the context of whether it 
was unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr R normally ran his account, and I didnt think it 
was. So, I didnt think HSBC needed to do anything else at that point.
The next five payments were for £4,370.25, £4,521.61, £4,375.22, £4347.45, and £2,273.92 
and I considered whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic for the account. These 
payments were to legitimate cryptocurrency merchants, and they werent made in quick 
succession. I accepted that in the period leading up to the payments, Mr R hadnt made any 
payments of similar value, but they werent so large that HSBC needed to intervene based 
on value alone. However, I agreed with our investigator that it should have intervened on 11 
November 2022 when Mr R paid £8,766.09 because this was a significant increase in 
spending which was unusual for the account.
I explained that HSBC should have contacted Mr R and asked some probing questions 
about the purpose of the payment including how he learned about the investment 
opportunity, whether there was a third party involved and if so, how he met them, whether 
hed been told to download remote access software to his device, whether hed been 
promised unrealistic returns and whether hed been told to make an onwards payment from 
the cryptocurrency exchange.
I hadnt seen any evidence that Mr R was coached to lie and so if hed been asked these 
questions, I thought it was likely hed have told the call handler that hed learned about P 
from someone hed met online and that hed been advised to make an onwards payment 
from the cryptocurrency exchange to a wallet address provided by the broker.With this information I would expect HSBC to have identified the investment had the 
hallmarks of a scam and to have provided advice on additional due diligence and warned 
him that the investment had the hallmarks of a scam. There were no warnings about P on 
either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions (IOCSO) websites which would have alerted Mr R to the fact this was a 
scam. But I didnt think he would have gone ahead with the payment if hed had any inkling 
that P was operating a scam.
HSBC had argued the fact he had engaged in another investment meant Mr R was willing to 
take risks and so a warning from HSBC wouldnt have made a difference. But Mr R had 
explained that the other investment had nothing to do with cryptocurrency and that hed tried 
to trade by investing £2,500 before withdrawing the money, having made a very small profit.
So, while I accepted Mr R had invested before, I didnt accept it was high risk and I didnt 
think it meant hed have ignored a clear warning from HSBC that the investment was 
probably a scam.
Because of this, I thought HSBC missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances when 
to do so might have prevented Mr Rs loss, so I thought it should refund the money Mr R lost 
from the second payment he made on 11 November 2022 onwards.
Contributory negligence
I explained theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions and conduct suitable due diligence and I accepted Mr R was taking advice from 
someone hed met online, which should reasonably have given him cause for concern. And 
the fact he had invested before meant he would have had some awareness of the risks 
involved in investing. However, I noted he wasnt promised unrealistic returns and he had 
explained that he checked Ps website and social media pages and he saw positive reviews 
on Trustpilot. He also noted it was registered on Companies House with a registered office in 
London.
Our investigator felt it was unreasonable for Mr R to have gone ahead without some 
documentation from P, but I was satisfied the research he did was reasonable in the 
circumstances. He hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before and so this was an area with 
which he was unfamiliar. This unfamiliarity was compounded by the sophisticated nature of 
the scam, the fact he thought he was engaged in a genuine friendship with the scammer and 
the fact the broker appeared to be knowledgeable about investing. So, whilst there may be 
cases where a reduction for contributory negligence is appropriate, I didnt think this was one 
of them.
Recovery
Because Mr R made the payments to an account in his own name before loading the 
cryptocurrency onto an online wallet, I didnt think there was a realistic prosect of a 
successful recovery.
Compensation
I wasnt persuaded Mr R was entitled to any compensation or legal costs from HSBC.
Developments
HSBC has made further comments in response to my provisional decision. It has said it 
would be willing to refund 50% from the seventh payment onwards but it maintains that if Mr 
R was under the spell of the scammer, a warning wouldnt have made a difference. It has said that if Mr R had done basic searches he would have realised the investment was 
a scam. It has commented that he said he had carried out extensive research on P and that 
he recalls seeing it was registered on Companies House, with an address in London, but 
neither the scam company nor the version of the name referred to in Mr Rs complaint letter 
were registered with Companies House. And a search of the scam company reveals a 
mobile number, which ought to have been a red flag.
It has explained that a third version of the company name was registered with Companies 
House, with a London address and a phone number which is consistent with a London 
address, but this company has no links to cryptocurrency or high-risk investments. Similarly, 
HSBC has argued that a search of the scam company would also have taken Mr R to Ps 
social media page which didnt look professional and should have raised alarm bells.
It has also said that Mr R likely began researching the investment in May 2022, but at that 
time there would have only been one review. And he hasnt produced any evidence of the 
social media pages hes referred to, which might have supported that hed done reasonable 
due diligence rather than simply following links provided to him by the scammer.
In further comments relating to the issue of contributory negligence, HSBC has said theres 
no evidence that Mr R wasnt promised unrealistic returns. It has argued that the available 
evidence is that the returns were too good to be true as the scammer said she was making 
good profits, which made the investment seem profitable. It has also argued that Mr R 
increased his investment from late October 2022, suggesting he was promised returns that 
were too good to be true.
It has further argued that in paying over £70,000 to the scam, Mr R displayed a lack of 
caution and that he carelessly increased his investment, paying £8,000, £16,000, and 
£13,000 in individual payments within a month, having received no tangible returns. It 
accepts Mr Rs previous investment experience wasnt in cryptocurrency, but he was trading 
in CFDs, which is categorised as high risk. And even though he had built up what he thought 
was a genuine friendship with the scammer, he should have been concerned when the 
discussion changed to cryptocurrency.
Finally, it has argued that the payments Mr R made from 27 October 2022 were funded from 
his savings account, so the relevant rate of interest should be based on the rate of interest 
for that savings account and the award of 8% simple interest would be betterment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC is suggesting that if Mr R had searched either of two versions of the name associated 
with the scam company, he would have discovered that neither were registered on 
Companies House and that this should have raised concerns. As should the fact the scam 
company had a mobile number and a social media page, neither of which would have 
seemed professional. Alternatively, if hed searched the company that was registered on 
Companies House, hed have seen it wasnt associated with cryptocurrency.
Ive noted what HSBC has said about the results of searches Mr R might have done and 
while I accept that more thorough searches might have raised concerns, Im satisfied he did 
what he understood to be reasonable due diligence. I would expect Mr R to have undertaken 
a google search to confirm P did exist, but I wouldnt necessarily expect this to have involved 
an analysis of the services it provided. And I accept the use of a mobile number would have been a red flag, but Mr R might not have noticed this or considered that the social media 
platform was unprofessional.
As Ive previously noted, this was a sophisticated scam and I dont think its unreasonable 
that he failed to differentiate between the various versions of the company name or not to 
have spotted red flags that are now obvious with the benefit of hindsight. So, while I accept 
Mr Rs research wasnt as effective as it might have been, I dont think it means that he was 
negligent to the extent that he contributed to his own loss.
HSBC has pointed out that there was only one positive review about P at the time Mr R was 
likely to have checked Trustpilot, but theres no suggestion that he ignored negative reviews 
and I dont think it was unreasonable for him to have gone ahead with the investment having 
seen only one positive review.
It has also suggested that Mr R followed direct links provided to him by the scammer, but 
hes explained that he believed he had developed a genuine relationship with this person 
and in the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable that he believed what he was told 
about the investment.
I said in my provisional decision that there was no evidence that Mr R was promised 
unrealistic returns, which is relevant to the issue of whether it was unreasonable for him to 
have believed what he was told by the scammer. But even if he was tempted by good profits, 
in recent years instances of individuals making large amounts of money by trading in 
cryptocurrency have been highly publicised to the extent that I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to have believed what he was told by the broker in terms of the returns 
he was told were possible.
Similarly, I accept he made large payments to the scam, but Im satisfied he did this in the 
belief that hes money was safe and that he was making significant profits which he could 
see on the trading platform, and in those circumstances I dont think he was negligent or that 
he could fairly be said to have contributed to this own loss. 
Overall, I note the further comments that HSBC has made in support of its argument that the 
settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence, but I maintain my view that this 
was a sophisticated scam and Mr P had thought he was engaged in a genuine friendship 
with the scammer, so I dont think he contributed to his own loss.
Finally, HSBC has argued that the interest award should be based on the rate of interest for 
the savings account that Mr R used to fund the scam payments. But we normally award 8% 
simple interest per year to reflect the cost of being deprived of money and in the 
circumstances Im not persuaded that it would be fair to use a different rate of interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, Im minded to uphold this complaint and to direct HSBC 
Bank UK Plc to:
refund the money Mr R the money he lost from 11 November 2022 (the seventh 
payment) onwards.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If HSBC Bank UK Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mr R with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman