DRN-4467907
The complaint
Mr S says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance,
who Ill call BPF, unfairly declined his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the
CCA) in relation to a timeshare product he was sold in November 2010.
Mr S has been represented by a professional representative who Ill call PR and he entered
into the timeshare agreement with his partner, but as the finance agreement was in his sole 
name, I will refer only to Mr S or his representatives in this decision. I mean no disrespect to 
Mr Ss partner when doing so.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint early this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
In November 2010 Mr S and his partner purchased a timeshare product from a supplier Ill
call D. They financed the deal through a fixed sum loan with BPF. That finance agreement
was regulated by the CCA.
In June 2018 Mr S complained to BPF about problems he had encountered with the
timeshare product. There were a number of allegations and its not practical to reproduce
them all here, but I have taken note of them. He said the nature of the timeshare had been
misrepresented to him, so he was able to make a claim against the lender under section 75
of the CCA (section 75). He also said that there was an unfair debtor-creditor-supplier-
relationship under section 140A of the CCA.
BPF rejected Mr S claim as they said it was time barred under the Limitations Act 1980
(LA).
Our investigator thought the claim under section 75 had been made too late and that it was
therefore fair for BPF to rely on the LA to reject it. She didnt think the claim under section
140A was time barred but having considered that she didnt think there was sufficient
evidence of an unfair relationship.
The PR disagreed and suggested the date relied on should be the date Mr S had knowledge
of the misrepresentation and not when the transaction was incepted. They explained they
would be relying on section 32 (1) (a-c) of the Limitation Act and wanted that to be
considered. The complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
her view.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my decision.
The Limitation Act 1980 and section 75 of the CCA
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a certain type of fixed sum
loan, as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of
the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a
credit agreement has the same right to make a claim against the credit provider as against
the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
A claim under section 75 for misrepresentation against BPF had to be made within six years
of when Mr S had everything he needed to make such a claim. And in this complaint, I think
that was when he purchased the timeshare in November 2010. After all, he says that he
entered into the agreement to purchase the timeshare because of misrepresentations. And
as the upshot of the claim was that he would not have made the purchase but for the
misrepresentations at the time of sale, it was at that time that he suffered a loss because he
ended up borrowing money from BPF. So, Mr S had until November 2016 to raise a section
75 claim with BPF. As he didnt do so until June 2018, and as I cant see a reason why the
limitation period is likely to be postponed in keeping with the LA, I think its likely a court
would consider his section 75 claim to be time barred. That would give BPF a complete
defence to it.
Section 32 of the LA
Section 32 relates to the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, mistake, or
concealment are found (or could with reasonable diligence have been discovered).
Its possible that the contractual paperwork accompanying Mr Ss purchase agreement was
lengthy and difficult to understand in places. But that isnt the same as saying the Supplier
deliberately withheld information from Mr S in a way that engages Section 32(1)(b) of the LA.
There may be allegations that was the case, but those allegations arent reliably
corroborated by any supporting evidence. So, based on the limited information Ive seen, Im
not persuaded that Section 32(1)(b) is likely to be engaged and I dont think a court would
find there was a reason to extend the limitation period.
The Limitation Act 1980 and section 140A of the CCA
Section 140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and a creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken with any related agreement).
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant to the claim under section 140A of the CCA as the
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the broker will be deemed to be the responsibility of the
lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfairrelationship existed between Mr S and BPF.
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A CCA. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that,
when considering section 140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that
the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. Here
the limitation period is six years. That is because the claim Mr S wishes to make is for
repayment of sums he has paid, which is an action for sums recoverable under statute, to
which s.9 LA applies. That meant Mr S would have to bring an action within six years of the
date the credit was repaid. The account was settled in January 2015 and Mr S raised his
claim with BPF in June 2018 which is within six years. So, I dont think BPF were reasonable
to reject his section 140A claim and Ill therefore consider that element.
The claim under section 140A
We know it is common that these sales presentations often lasted for a number of hours. Ive
therefore considered whether there is evidence that Mr Ss ability to exercise choice was
significantly impaired by the lengthy presentation and the pressure he says was applied, as
that may have created an unfair relationship between him and the supplier.
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT
Regulations) seems to expand on the everyday definition of pressure. At the time of sale,
Regulation 7 stated that a commercial practice was aggressive if, in its factual context and
taking account of all of its features and circumstances, it:
a. significantly impaired or was likely to significantly impair the average consumers freedom
of choice or conduct in relation to the product concerned through the use of harassment,
coercion, or undue influence; and
b. caused or was likely to cause the consumer to take a transactional decision they would
not have taken otherwise as a result.
Regulation 7(2) went on to say that consideration must be given to the timing, location,
nature, and persistence of the practice. And when thinking about whether undue influence
was applied, Regulation 7(3) said that thought must be given as to whether the Supplier
exploited a position of power in relation to the consumer so as to apply pressure, even
without using or threatening to use physical force, in a way which significantly [limited] the
consumers ability to make an informed decision.
I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient information to suggest Mr S didnt understand
he didnt have to say yes to the agreement or that he didnt understand he could walk away
without entering into it. He was also provided with a 14 day cooling off period and I think,
even if he wasnt allowed much time to think during the presentation, the cooling off period
allowed him to reflect and withdraw from the agreement and the loan if he wished.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Ss ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have
been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
Mr S says that BPF were in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan.
However, even if BPF didnt complete adequate affordability checks (and I make no finding
about that) when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration
is whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, for me to
say BPF needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the credit
granted by BPF was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr S suffered a loss as a result. Astheres little evidence that he would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay what he was
lent by BPF, Im not persuaded the agreement was unaffordable for him or that a court would
come to that conclusion.
Mr S says that the non-disclosure of commissions paid to D by BPF rendered the
relationship unfair. BPF have confirmed that no commission was paid in this transaction so I
dont think a court would think there was an unfair relationship on that basis.
Mr S has referred to various pieces of legislation which he says has been breached by D
and BPF and he suggests that this gives rise to an unfair relationship. Ive considered those
points carefully but taking everything into account, they do not change my opinion and I dont
think BPF have been unreasonable to reject his claim.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further evidence and/or information
Neither Mr S nor BPF provided any additional evidence or information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision. That provisional decision, therefore, becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman