DRN-4055989
The complaint
Miss S complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA didnt do sufficient checks before 
giving her credit that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In August 2017, Miss S applied for credit with PayPal and was granted a credit facility of 
£3,000. She complained to say that she shouldnt have been given this, because her 
situation at the time meant she could never have afforded to pay it back. Miss S also didnt 
feel that PayPal had carried out adequate checks before lending.
PayPal felt that it had performed sufficient checks to make sure whether the lending was 
affordable. It said it had asked Miss S about her financial position in terms of her income and 
expenditure, along with using information gathered from credit reference agencies to assess 
whether the lending was affordable. Having done so, the information it gathered supported 
that Miss S could afford this.
Miss S disagreed with this. She brought her complaint to our service, where an investigator 
looked into it. Our investigator felt that PayPals checks werent proportionate in the 
circumstances and that it should have looked into Miss Ss position in more detail. But they 
said that if PayPal had done that, then it would have still found that the lending was 
affordable. So she didnt think that PayPal needed to do any more.
Miss S disagreed. She provided her credit file and statements from her current account in 
the months preceding the application to support what she was saying. Our investigator 
reviewed these, but still felt that PayPal would have been entitled to fairly lend to Miss S, 
even if it was aware of this information. As Miss S continued to disagree, the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPals checks here seem to have largely been automated and werent based around any 
real detail of Miss Ss individual circumstances. Miss S declared that she was a tenant and in 
part time employment. She said she was earning between £1,000 and £1,500 and had £500 
of expenditure each month. So PayPal says it considered that she had disposable income of 
£1,000. When it considered that alongside what the information from the credit reference 
agencies showed, it decided this demonstrated that the credit was affordable here.
Like our investigator though  I dont think that was a reasonable, or proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ss financial position in terms of whether she could afford the borrowing 
here. The figures provided were very high level and there was no breakdown of what, for 
example, Miss S was paying on rent or accommodation costs. When considering what 
Miss S said about her income, alongside the amount being lent here  I think it would have 
been fair for PayPal to ask more questions about the affordability of what was being lent.
Had PayPal done this though, I dont think it would have then found any reasons to question 
its decision to lend. Miss S has told us about the difficult circumstances she was in at the 
time she applied for the credit here. But from the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that 
PayPal would have been aware that she would have struggled to sustainably make 
payments.
I say this because the statements Miss S has provided show that she largely maintained her 
account well and within the agreed limits, with minimal (if occasional) use of her overdraft. 
The statements show that she was in receipt of a wage, alongside regular benefits in the 
months before the application. They also show that in the month before the application, 
Miss S was claiming an unemployment-based benefit, alongside other regular benefits.
But PayPal was entitled to take account of these benefits when assessing whether Miss S 
could afford the credit. Having done so, I think the overall picture that it wouldve had was 
that the information Miss S provided and the information it gathered and estimated were 
correct. This would all have supported that the lending here was affordable and so I dont 
think PayPal acted unfairly or unreasonably in giving Miss S the credit here. This is further 
supported by the fact that Miss S looks to have largely made regular payments to the lending 
for some time after she took it out.
Miss S did then take out short term loans, but only some time after the application  so 
PayPal couldnt have been aware of this before lending. It was only in 2020 when Miss S 
told PayPal about financial problems she was having, linked to the Covid-19 pandemic, that I 
think it could have been aware that Miss S might have been consistently struggling to pay 
what she owed. But PayPal has shown that it acted with consideration and forbearance 
when she told it about her situation  as it agreed payment holidays and asked for 
information from Miss S to help her further.
So overall here, Im satisfied that PayPal has acted fairly in lending here. If Miss S continues 
to have difficulties making payments, she should stay in contact with PayPal to see what it 
can do to help her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman