DRN-4486717
The complaint
Mr G complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF)  unfairly turned down his claim under sections 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in respect of a timeshare product they financed. 
What happened
Mr G (jointly with another party) has held various timeshare product memberships and points 
rights with a timeshare supplier (who Ill refer to as D) since around 1995. In particular, they 
purchased the timeshare scheme membership together with increasing points rights in 1995, 
1998, 2001, 2010, 2011 and 2012 up to the point of the transaction that is subject to the 
claim here. 
Late in December 2012, Mr G agreed to purchase 2,000 additional points rights from D. The 
purchase price agreed was £3,000 which was funded under a fixed-sum loan agreement 
with BPF over 120 months in Mr Gs1  sole name.
In or around March 2017, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mr G 
submitted a claim to BPF under the CCA. The CMC said that during the sales meeting in 
December 2012, D made a number of representations about the membership benefits which 
turned out not to be true. And it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr G to 
enter into the purchase contracts with D. They believe that under section 75 (S75) of the 
CCA, BPF are jointly liable for any misrepresentation. In particular, the CMC allege that D 
told Mr G:
the points purchase would provide Gold membership status guaranteeing greater 
availability of accommodation and priority booking over other members; and
Gold membership status would provide access to a greater number of dog friendly 
places to stay.
The CMC also allege that an unfair relationship exists between Mr G and BPF under section 
140A of the CCA (S140A) resulting out of the timeshare purchase agreement entered into. 
In particular, the CMC allege:
the purchase agreement contains unfair terms relating to the forfeiture of 
membership for non-payment of annual maintenance fees;
Mr G was pressured to enter into the credit agreement with BPF;
D was acting as an agent of Mr G in arranging the finance which created a fiduciary 
arrangement. But D (and BPF) failed to disclose commission paid by BPF to D for 
arranging the loan; and
D failed to carry out a proper credit assessment to ensure the loan was sustainably 
affordable for Mr G.
In responding to Mr Gs claim, BPF didnt agree the product had been misrepresented to Mr 
G in the manner alleged. They said Mr Gs existing points holding already conferred gold 
membership at the time of the purchase. And given Mr Gs long association with D, they 
1 While the purchase in question was made in the joint names of Mr G and another party, the finance was held in Mr Gs sole 
name. So, under the CCA, Mrs G is the only eligible Claimant and as a consequence, the only eligible complainant.
believe he would have been well aware of his membership status and the benefits that 
provided.
BPF didnt agree there was a regulatory requirement to disclose any commission paid to D. 
They also didnt think any alleged unfairness within the contract was relevant given that the 
concerns referenced hadnt had any proven impact or created a loss for Mr G. They also 
didnt agree there was any evidence Mr G had been pressured into entering the loan 
agreement. Or that there was anything else that would lead to unfairness pursuant to S140A.
Finally, BPF didnt agree it was Ds responsibility to carry out a credit assessment. They 
confirmed theyd undertaken their own assessment before agreeing the loan which had 
satisfied them that Mr G was creditworthy, and the loan was affordable for him.
The CMC didnt agree with BPFs findings and referred Mr Gs claim to this service as a 
complaint. In doing so, they further explained why they believe a fiduciary relationship exists 
between D and Mr G which confers various responsibilities upon them. In particular relating 
to a requirement to disclose any secret profit they may have made by virtue of commission 
payments from BPF. 
One of this services investigators considered all the evidence and information available. 
Having done so, our investigator didnt think there was any evidence of misrepresentation. 
Or that a court was likely to find the relationship unfair under S140A. They also didnt think 
there was any evidence to suggest the loan was unaffordable for Mr G.
The CMC didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked that Mr Gs complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. So, it has been passed to me to consider 
further. As part of my review, the CMC have asked me to consider the contents of a 51-page 
document prepared by counsel headed Generic Submission of behalf of complainants.
In subsequent submissions to this service, the CMC raised concerns about the finance sales 
process employed by D with further allegations about the lack of borrowing assessments 
including alleged breaches of FCA2 and OFT3 rules and guidelines. The CMC also requested 
that this service obtain and provide them with detailed information and documents in relation 
to Ds and BPFs finance sales process.
Having considered Mr Gs complaint, while I was inclined to reach the same outcome as our 
investigator, I considered a number of issues which I dont feel were previously fully 
addressed. So, I issued a provisional decision on 2 November 2023 giving both sides the 
chance to respond before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP4 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
G paid for the timeshare product under a restricted use fixed sum loan agreement. 
So it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mr G is afforded the 
protection offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive 
taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this 
case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr G and BPF arising out of 
the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And because the 
2 Financial Conduct Authority
3 The Office of Fair Trading
4 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)product purchased was funded under that credit agreement, theyre deemed to be 
related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint this service is able to consider specifically relates to 
whether I believe BPFs response to Mr Gs claim was fair and reasonable given all 
the evidence and information available to me, rather than deciding the legal claim 
itself. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont 
provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other 
ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address in my decision every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Was the timeshare product misrepresented?
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by D in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that D made false statements of fact when selling Mr G the timeshare 
product in December 2012. In other words, that they told Mr G something that wasnt 
true in relation to one or more of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied 
that the misrepresentations were material in inducing Mr G to enter the contract. This 
means I would need to be persuaded that Mr G reasonably relied on the alleged false 
statements when deciding to buy the timeshare membership points. 
Various allegations have been made specifically relating to the sale and purchase in 
December 2012. So, Ive considered those allegations against the information 
available from the time of the sale. It appears that as Mr Gs points holding 
increased, his status with D changed in accordance with the total number of points 
held at the time. Each status category affords various benefits, some of which (but 
not necessarily all) may increase or change within each higher category.
From the information available and based upon what has been said by both D and 
BPF, Mr G already held Gold membership status prior to his purchase in December 
2012. So, it doesnt appear the purchase of the additional 2,000 points had any 
impact upon that status. Rather it appears it gave Mr G more points to spend against 
accommodation and experiences from within Ds portfolio. 
The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the sale. The 
CMCs description of what was said at the time of the sale appears to run contrary to 
the documentation. Looking at the available documentary evidence from the time of 
sale, I cant see anything to show that the products were misrepresented to Mr G in 
the way described, whether in terms of increased availability or enhanced booking 
priority. Furthermore, there is nothing within any of the documents that makes 
specific reference to dog-friendly accommodation in terms of availability or otherwise.Given my findings above, I cant say with any certainty that D did in fact misrepresent 
the product purchased in the way described. And because of that, I cant conclude 
that BPFs response to Mr Gs claim under S75 was unfair or unreasonable.
Was there an unfair relationship under S140A?
The CMC suggest that certain terms of the Purchase Agreement and associated 
legal documentation are unfair. Theyve also made allegations that they also believe 
resulted in unfairness for Mr G. And as a debtor-supplier-creditor agreement exists 
by virtue of the loan agreements entered into, they believe this means that an unfair 
relationship exists within the context of S140A.
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (BPF) and the debtor (Mr G) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
The breadth of the unfair relationship test under S140A is stark. But a simple breach 
of a legal or equitable duty doesnt necessarily make the relationship unfair. It also 
isnt just about hard-edged requirements  though the standard of commercial 
conduct reasonably expected can be important. And while there may be features of 
the transactions that operate harshly against the debtor, it doesnt necessarily follow 
that the relationship is unfair. After all, such features may be required in order to 
protect what a court regards as legitimate interests. 
Relationships between businesses and private individuals are also often 
characterised by large differences of knowledge and expertise  which means theyre 
inherently unequal as a result. But as far as the Supreme Court was concerned in 
Plevin5, it cant have been parliaments intention that such relationships should be 
liable to be reopened for that reason alone.
Unfair terms - consequences of non-payment of annual maintenance fees
I accept that its possible that some of the terms governing the associated annual 
management charges and Ds remedies, if they werent paid, may go against the 
requirements of the UTCCR6. But I dont think I need to formally decide that point 
here because, even if the terms were unfair, I cant see theyve actually operated 
unfairly against Mr G. 
This doesnt necessarily mean to say that Mr G couldnt have been put at a 
disadvantage when entering into the upgrade agreement if the contractual terms 
criticised by the CMC were unfair under the UTCCR. 
D has (as I understand it) given BPF an undertaking that consumers with complaints 
at the Financial Ombudsman Service who remain members can choose to relinquish 
their membership without having to pay any outstanding management charges (if 
there are any) and without prejudice to their ongoing complaint. With that being the 
case, even if the terms criticised are unfair under the UTCCR, in the absence of 
evidence that the terms in question had been operated unfairly against Mr G in 
practice, Ds undertaking would seem to me to go a long way to mitigating if not 
resolving any unfairness that the terms might otherwise have led to.
5 The Supreme Courts judgement in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014]
6 The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999The allegation of pressure
The CMCs letter suggests that Mr G was pressured into entering into the finance 
agreement. But they havent provided any explanation or evidence to support that 
claim. 
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, and in 
the absence of any explanation or evidence, I think its very difficult to say that Mr G 
agreed to the finance agreement when he simply didnt want to. I havent seen any 
evidence to demonstrate that he went on to say something to D or BPF, after the 
purchase, that suggests hed agreed to the finance when he didnt want to. And he 
hasnt provided a credible explanation for why he didnt subsequently seek to cancel 
the finance agreement within the 14-day cooling off period permitted here. His ability 
to cancel was clearly included within the loan documentation and Mr G also signed a 
Client Compliance Confirmation form in which he confirms his right to withdraw was 
explained to him. 
If its suggested he only agreed to the finance agreement because he felt he was 
pressured, I find this aspect difficult to reconcile. I havent seen anything substantive 
to suggest Mr G was obviously harassed or coerced into taking the finance.  And 
because of that, Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
that Mr G made the decision to proceed because his ability to exercise choice was  
or was likely to have been  significantly impaired.
Ds responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Mr Gs S140A claim is based upon the status of D (as the introducer of the 
loan) and their (and BPFs) resultant responsibilities towards him. In particular, its 
argued that the payment of commission by BPF to D was kept from him. But I dont 
think the fact that BPF might have paid D commission was incompatible with their 
role in the transaction. 
D werent acting as an agent of Mr G, but as the supplier of contractual rights he 
obtained under the timeshare points purchase agreement. And, in relation to the 
loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was Ds role to make an 
impartial or disinterested recommendation, or to give Mr G advice or information on 
that basis. As far as Im aware, he was always at liberty to choose how he wanted to 
fund the transactions. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest BPF were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Mr G requested those details from BPF (or D) 
at any point prior to his claim. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a 
court would find that any non-disclosure or payment of commission wouldve created 
an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A.
Was a proper credit assessment completed?
The CMC have made various allegations suggesting that the loan was provided 
irresponsibly. In particular that no affordability checks were undertaken by D.
BPF have explained that the responsibility to assess Mr Gs finance application lay 
with them. Theyve given an overview of the credit assessment they completed and 
said that his application met their lending policy and guidelines. BPF said their 
assessment showed the loan was considered affordable based upon the information 
they were aware of at the time, and the credit reference checks they undertook. Ive 
also seen a copy of the loan application Mr G completed in December 2012 which 
includes details of his income and employment situation  amongst other things.If I were to find that BPF hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I 
make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably 
affordable for Mr G in order to uphold his complaint here. However, with no 
information about Mr Gs actual position at the time and no evidence or suggestion 
that he struggled to maintain repayments, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was 
unaffordable for him. And given it appears the loan was fully repaid in April 2013, 
there doesnt appear to be any evidence of unaffordability or resultant loss.
Other considerations
I have considered the various additional submissions provided by the CMC. In 
particular, the generic submissions prepared by Counsel. However, as these were 
generic points and not specific to Mr Gs own purchase or recollections, I dont think 
they offered much help in making factual findings in Mr Gs case.
The CMC have requested that this service obtain extensive details of BPFs 
processes and procedures together with evidence that D (and in turn BPF) complied 
with the relevant rules, regulations and codes of practice that applied in the 
circumstances of the loan that was provided to Mr G. 
This services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution service does not extend to 
regulating financial businesses or questioning their policies and procedures  thats 
the role of the regulator - in this case the FCA. Our powers are confined to deciding 
whether, on balance, their processes and procedures were applied in a fair and 
reasonable way in Mr Gs individual circumstances. And in doing so, whether BPFs 
handling of Mr Gs claim appears fair and reasonable. Thats what Ive done here.
Furthermore, it is for this service to decide what information and evidence is required 
in order to investigate and decide Mr Gs complaint. Thats also what Ive done here, 
and I believe the evidence and information provided enables me to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome in Mr Gs case.
Summary
To reiterate  My role in deciding Mr Gs complaint is to establish whether, based 
upon all the evidence available, BPFs response to his claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. Given my findings above, I cant say that it was. And on that basis, I 
dont currently intend to ask BPF to do anything more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF acknowledged my provisional decision and confirmed they had nothing to add. Despite 
follow up by this service, neither the CMC nor Mr G have responded to my provisional 
findings.
In these circumstances, and with nothing new to consider, Ive no reason to vary from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 Dave Morgan
Ombudsman