DRN-3867500
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund over £30,000 
she says she lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again in detail here. In brief summary, Mrs J says she fell victim to a scam orchestrated by a 
horse-racing betting syndicate (L). She says she was approached by its director, who was 
a trusted family friend, where she was told she could make risk-free returns. 
Mrs J made payments to L totalling around £30,000 between April and June 2018. However, 
she said she realised it was a scam when she was unable to withdraw her money, and 
everything publicly unfolded in February 2019 after Ls director was arrested. She reported 
the alleged fraud to Nationwide who refused to provide her with a refund as she had 
authorised the payments.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think any intervention would have 
likely stopped Mrs J from making the payments in the event that L was operating a scam, as 
she believed that Ls director was a family friend and former policeman that she trusted. 
Mrs J disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the following reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that Nationwide could have delayed the payments while concerns about the 
payee were discussed with Mrs J.
So, I would need to be satisfied that L was operating a scam when the disputed 
payments were made between April and June 2018 in order to expect Nationwide to 
have done anything further here. And having considered the evidence, I appreciate that 
L may have been operating a scam at the relevant time. Its director was declared 
bankrupt and has since been investigated for fraud by the police. Mrs Js representatives 
have also shown an email from the police saying they were putting a file together to pass 
to the CPS to consider whether to charge Ls director, although it appears that any 
formal charges are still yet to be brought. 
However, even accepting that Ls horse racing syndicate was operated as a scam, and 
that Nationwide should have intervened to ask questions about the payments, there 
would have been very little to indicate that Mrs J was falling victim to fraud at the relevant 
time. 
I say this because although Ls director may not have been authorised by the FCA to 
promote any sort of collective investment scheme (if the betting syndicate could even be 
considered as such), Mrs J said he was a trusted family friend. She said she had been 
referred to the syndicate by her brother, and also knew of other family members who 
were making returns. There was no adverse information in the public domain at that 
time, and L was a registered company on Companies House that was seemingly offering 
a legitimate service. Therefore, there wouldnt have been anything significant that 
wouldve reasonably led Mrs J to believe she was likely being scammed if Nationwide 
had given such a warning. It does not bear many hallmarks of other common scams, 
such as being approached out of the blue by someone unknown with a money-making 
opportunity. So, Im not persuaded Nationwide could have reasonably prevented the 
scam in these circumstances even if it had intervened.  
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mrs J reported her loss. In terms of the debit card payment, I can see that Mrs J 
used her Visa card to purchase an annual membership of Ls racing club. Given she 
became a member of the club after paying her subscription, she wouldnt be able to 
reasonably claim that she didnt receive what she had paid for. Therefore, it doesnt 
seem there would be any reasonable prospect of a chargeback succeeding in these 
circumstances, so I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly by failing to pursue a claim. 
In terms of the faster payments, I can see that Nationwide reached out to the beneficiary 
bank to try and recover the funds, but they do not seem to have been successful. There 
wouldnt have been much prospect of Nationwide recovering the funds in any event 
given the time that had passed since the payments were made, and because L has since 
entered into liquidation, so Im not persuaded it could have done anything more here 
either. 
Nationwide is also under no obligation to consider reimbursing the payments under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) given the payments were made before 
the Code came into force. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs J, and Im sorry to hear about 
the money she has lost. However, Im not persuaded that Nationwide can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman