DRN-2677069
The complaint
C complains about the decision of Covea Insurance plc to decline its business interruption 
insurance claim, made following the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
C held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Covea. The policy provided a number 
of areas of cover, including for business interruption. C claimed on the policy, saying that its 
business had been interrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
However, Covea declined the claim. It said the core business interruption cover related to 
interruption caused by damage and it didnt consider that such damage had led to Cs 
business being interrupted. It also said that whilst the policy did provide some cover in 
relation to diseases, this cover was limited to a specific list of diseases which did not include 
COVID-19. 
C was unhappy with this outcome, and when Covea did not change its stance, C brought its 
complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
though. He didnt agree with Cs arguments that the damage covered by the policy was 
what had caused the interruption to Cs business. And he agreed with Covea that the 
disease extension to the business interruption section didnt cover COVID-19 related claims.
As C remained unsatisfied, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 restrictions have 
had on C, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that Cs business suffered interruption or interference in March 2020 due to the 
government-imposed restrictions, which were introduced to limit the spread of COVID-19. 
So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. 
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy C took out.
Damage
As Covea has said, the core business interruption cover provided by Cs policy relates to 
situations where damage has been caused to property and, as a result of this damage, 
business is interrupted or interfered with. 
The requirement for damage to be the cause of the interruption or interference is also 
found in a number of the extensions to this core cover. Exactly where the damage needs to 
occur differs between the extensions, for example to Cs property, to the property of Cs 
suppliers/customers, or to property in the vicinity of Cs premises. 
But I dont think COVID-19 or the government-imposed restrictions did cause damage, as 
defined by the policy, that led to Cs business being interrupted or interfered with.
C has said the company itself was damaged, and has argued that the company is property. 
However, even if this is true, in order to claim under the business interruption section, this 
damage would have to be the cause of the interruption or interference rather than a 
consequence of that interruption or interference. 
C has also argued that loss of revenue was a damage its business suffered. But, similar to 
above, even if this is true, this would need to be the cause of, rather than the consequence 
of, that interruption or interference. 
C has said that this loss of revenue arose from a temporary disruption to trade. C has been 
quite clear that this disruption was temporary, distinguishing it from loss of market  an 
excluded cause of damage. However, C has also said that it accepts that in order to qualify 
as damage, loss needs to be more than temporary. So, by its own argument temporary 
disruption to trade cannot in itself be considered damage. 
Ultimately, whist I appreciate C likely suffered a loss of income as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic, I dont think it suffered damage which then led to an interruption or interference. 
So, I dont think Covea acted inappropriately when declining its claim under the parts of the 
business interruption section that require damage. 
Notifiable Disease
Cs policy does also include a potentially relevant extension to the business interruption 
section that does not require there to have been damage. The Notifiable Disease, Vermin 
Pests and Defective Sanitation, Murder or Suicide extension says, in part:
We will indemnify You in respect of loss resulting from interruption of or interference 
with the Business during the Indemnity Period in consequence of the following 
contingencies: 
(a) any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease at The Premises
However, this extension also defines Notifiable Disease as:
The occurrence of any of the following human infectious or human contagious 
diseases sustained by any person: 
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, 
Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid 
Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, 
Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough, Yellow Fever.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided C with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Covea to include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I 
dont think Covea intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. 
Covea deliberately chose to define Notifiable Disease by reference to a static list of certain 
diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all diseases 
included in a separate list updated by the Government. These policies might, depending on 
the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy C has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy C has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of Notifiable Disease in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
I do note C comments about the types of diseases listed by the policy and that some of 
these are reasonably rare. However, there was a chance  however small  of some of 
these occurring on Cs premises, so I do not consider the cover provided to be wholly illusory 
or that this list means the term should be considered unfair. 
The policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly and 
reasonably be read in a different way.
Cs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Cs policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Coveas decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Covea should have met Cs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for C and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough 
explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman