DRN-4108980
The complaint
Mrs W complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined her claim against her private 
medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs W has private medical insurance underwritten by AXA. The 
policy renews in February each year. In April 2022, Mrs W contacted AXA about 
treatment for high cholesterol. In May 2022, Mrs Ws GP referred her to a private lipid 
clinic because of her high cholesterol level and a family history of coronary heart 
disease. Mrs W asked AXA to authorise a CT coronary angiogram. AXA asked for more 
information. Mrs W had the CT coronary angiogram on 17 May 2022. AXA declined the 
claim. It relied on an exclusion in the policy in relation to preventative treatment. 
Mrs W disputes that the CT coronary angiogram was for preventative purposes. She 
doesnt think that AXA acted fairly in declining her claim. Mrs W says that AXA 
authorised a similar claim in 2020. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought initially that AXA 
hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim, as the medical information showed that the 
CT coronary angiogram was for screening purposes. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator and provided further medical information  a 
letter dated 7 June 2022 from her consultant and an extract of her exchanges with a 
private patient manager. AXA maintained its position. 
The investigator considered the matter again. She thought that AXA should pay the 
claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. That was because she didnt think the 
CT coronary angiogram was preventative treatment as the medical information Mrs W 
provided said that she had ongoing palpitations and the CT coronary angiogram found a 
medical problem.  
AXA didnt agree with the investigator. It said, in summary:
It preferred to rely on the clinical letter of 11 May 2022, rather than the letter of    
7 June 2022, which was written for the purposes of Mrs Ws claim. 
Guidance from The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) 
doesnt refer to a CT coronary angiogram for the management of atrial fibrillation.
As a result of the CT coronary angiogram, Mrs W has been prescribed statins 
and aspirin, which are preventative treatments.
The consultant cardiologists report doesnt mention any symptoms of ischaemic 
heart disease  palpitations are not characteristic of ischaemic heart disease. 
Mrs W didnt have any symptoms that could be investigated by a CT coronary 
angiogram. 
The CT coronary angiogram was carried out for screening purposes in light of 
Mrs Ws family history and high cholesterol. 
Its not correct to say that just because the CT coronary angiogram can be used 
to diagnose or investigate several problems it wasnt used for preventative 
purposes in this case: if a diagnostic test is used in the absence of symptoms, 
then its used for preventative screening purposes. 
Mrs Ws policy doesnt cover screening tests in the absence of symptoms. 
The fact that the CT coronary angiogram found an abnormality doesnt alter the 
fact that it was carried out as preventative screening. 
AXA asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
In this decision Im dealing with Mrs Ws complaint about AXA declining her claim as 
thats the complaint AXA responded to in is final response of 8 July 2022. Mrs W has 
subsequently mentioned service issues with AXA. I dont deal with those issues here as 
Mrs W hasnt raised those matters with AXA in the first instance. Its open to her to do so 
- that would be a new complaint. 
My provisional decision. 
On 21 April 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated that I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
Subject to the policy terms, Mrs Ws policy covers eligible treatment, which is treatment 
of a disease, illness or injury . Preventative treatment and screening are excluded in the 
policy; the policy says:  
4.25 > Preventative treatment and screening tests
Health insurance is designed to cover problems that youre experiencing at the moment, so it 
generally doesnt cover preventative treatment or screening tests, including genetic tests.
What is not covered for preventative treatment and screening tests?
We do not pay for:
preventative treatment []; orpreventative screening tests; or
[]
tests to check whether:
oyou have a medical condition when you have no symptoms; or
oyou have a risk of developing a medical condition in the future; or
o[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont intend to uphold           
Mrs Ws complaint because I dont think that AXA treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Mrs Ws policy doesnt cover preventative treatment or screening  Ive set out 
above the relevant exclusion. The central question for me to decide is whether AXA 
acted fairly and reasonably in relying on that exclusion. I think it did and Ill explain 
why.
I dont think that AXA was at fault in preferring to rely on Mrs Ws consultant 
cardiologists clinical letter of 11 May 2022, rather than his letter of 7 June 2022 or 
the rather confused e-mail of 10 August 2022 from a GP in Mrs Ws practice. The 
letter of 7 June 2022 and the e-mail of 10 August 2022 were written after the event 
and in support of Mrs Ws claim. The clinical letter of 11 May 2022 was written for     
Mrs Ws GP and is a contemporaneous record of why Mrs Ws consultant 
cardiologist wanted to perform a CT coronary angiogram. 
The consultant cardiologists letter of 11 May 2022 says that Mrs W has a family 
history of coronary artery disease, raised cholesterol, mild and momentary 
palpitations which shes had for many years, is symptomatically extremely well and 
fit and doesnt have chest pain or chest tightness. He wanted to perform a CT 
coronary angiogram given Mrs Ws family history and high cholesterol in order to 
find out Mrs Ws coronary anatomy and assess any coronary plaque disease in 
order to establish future treatment. 
I dont think that AXA was at fault in concluding that Mrs Ws consultant cardiologist 
wanted to perform a CT coronary angiogram for preventative or screening 
purposes. Theres nothing in his letter of 11 May 2022 which suggests that Mrs W 
had worrying symptoms of a disease or illness that required diagnostic tests. 
The CT coronary angiogram found an abnormality  a moderate burden of mixed 
coronary plaque disease. That doesnt alter the fact that Mrs Ws consultant 
cardiologist required the CT coronary angiogram for preventative or screening 
purposes. And he subsequently recommended preventative medication to Mrs W. 
The consultant cardiologists letter of 7 June 2022 says that Mrs W had a history of 
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and symptoms of palpitations. Guidance by NICE  doesnt refer to a CT coronary angiogram for the management of atrial fibrillation or 
palpitations.
Mrs W says that AXA authorised similar treatment in 2020. AXA says that it did so 
as a gesture of goodwill after it made an error in handling the claim. Mrs W denies 
that. Whatever the reason for AXA authorising treatment in 2020, it doesnt alter 
the outcome here as Im looking at the decision AXA made following Mrs Ws claim 
in 2022. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mrs Ws claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA said it had nothing further to add. Mrs W didnt agree with my provisional decision. 
She responded to AXAs comments on the investigators view and said, in summary:
The reason for the CT coronary angiogram had nothing to do with atrial fibrillation. 
Its not the case that she was prescribed statins and aspirin as a result of the CT 
coronary angiogram  her doctor prescribed statins a couple of years ago but she 
only took them for one week before she was taken off them.
Her medical records show that shes had palpitations before. 
She had symptoms that could be investigated by a CT coronary angiogram  thats 
why her consultant cardiologist recommended it. She had narrowing of the arteries.
Its incorrect to say that the CT coronary angiogram was carried out for screening 
purposes in light of her family history and high cholesterol. The CT coronary 
angiogram was required following the previous scan. 
She had symptoms and thats why the CT coronary angiogram was required.
The results of the CT coronary angiogram show the reason it was required.
She has been a member for a number of years and AXA is trying to opt out of 
paying for a very clear health problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws comments in response to my provisional decision are largely a response to AXAs 
comments, rather than the reasoning in my provisional decision, but Ill address them in any 
event. 
I agree that her consultant cardiologist didnt require a CT coronary angiogram because 
of atrial fibrillation. His letter of 11 May 2022 says that he wanted to perform a CT 
coronary angiogram because of Mrs Ws  strong family history and very high 
cholesterol. I understand that Mrs W was prescribed statins some years ago but didnt tolerate them 
well. Her consultant cardiologists letter of 7 June 2022 says that theres a mandate to try a 
statin again and for Mrs W to take aspirin. I think that AXA assumed that a prescription 
followed on from that, but I accept what Mrs W says in that she didnt have a new 
prescription of statins or take aspirin. 
I remain of the view that AXA was entitled to rely on Mrs Ws consultant cardiologists clinical 
letter of 11 May 2022 and that it didnt act unfairly in concluding that Mrs Ws consultant 
cardiologist wanted to perform a CT coronary angiogram for preventative or screening 
purposes. I appreciate that Mrs W previously had palpitations but theres nothing in her 
consultant cardiologists letter of 11 May 2022 which suggests that Mrs W had worrying 
symptoms of a disease or illness that required diagnostic tests.
The fact that the CT coronary angiogram found an abnormality doesnt alter the fact that Mrs 
Ws consultant cardiologist required the CT coronary angiogram for preventative or 
screening purposes.
I understand that Mrs W will be very disappointed but, having looked at the matter again, I 
still think that AXA didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in declining her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman