DRN-2149830
The complaint
Miss C complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss C bought a second-hand car costing £6,480 funded by a deposit of 
£1,000 and the balance with a fixed sum loan. The car had been in an accident and was sold 
as category N. This means the car has suffered some damage, but not its structural frame or 
chassis. Generally, insurance companies determine such a car is not worth repairing. It had 
done 33,000 miles and Hitachi has said it was sold at 20% below market value.
At the time of purchase an airbag warning light was showing, but Miss C says that she was 
told it was a faulty sensor. Miss C also says that she encountered some handling problems 
especially when turning corners. The dealer offered her £200 towards repairing the airbag 
fault.
In September she complained to Hitachi. She also took it to a local garage which identified 
that it had multiple electronic faults, a significant issue with the airbag(s) and suspect 
suspension with the rear axle out of alignment. It was thought that these may have been 
issues which arose out the accident the car had suffered. 
Hitachi sought to mediate with the dealer. It said Miss C had been aware the car was 
category N and it maintained its offer to pay £200 towards the airbag repair. Hitachi 
commissioned an independent report into the fault codes and to provide an estimate of the 
cost of repairing the air bags.
The inspector said there was some damage to the car and he concluded this had been the 
cause of the airbag failure and not the original accident. 
Miss C brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld in part. She said she believed the airbags had 
been faulty at the point of sale given the warning lights were on. However, she said that the 
car was category N and so the other problems were to be expected. She suggested Hitachi 
pay for the cost of repairing the air bags and pay Miss C compensation of £400.
Miss C didnt agree and said the car while being sold as category N was also sold as 
needing no repairs. The garage which had inspected had informally estimated it would cost 
£2,900 to repair. She asked if the cost of the axle repair could also be covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all 
other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other 
relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the age and 
the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was sold as one which had been damaged and which had been repaired. That 
means Miss C had a reasonable expectation that the car which was only three years old was 
in a reasonable state of repair. It was sold as a runner and not in need of further repairs. 
At the time of purchase she accepted the dealers explanation for the airbag warning light 
being on and only later did it come to light that there was a more fundamental fault. I agree 
with our investigator that it is only right that this is rectified at no cost to Miss C. It is a safety 
issue and it is disappointing the car was sold like this.
On the other matters there is a difference of opinion between the independent inspector and 
the garage to which Miss C took the car. The former did a diagnostic test and found only 
issues related to the airbags while the latter identified a number of fault codes and an issue 
of the misaligned axle. Axle misalignment is not uncommon and unless there is some 
fundamental fault it should be easy to rectify.
The garage has given an informal estimate to Miss C of £2,900 to fix the car, but I dont have 
any detail and it is difficult for me to conclude that there were major faults at the point of sale. 
The car was sold at a reduced price taking into account its history and it is to be expected 
there may be issues later. Axle misalignment is generally a wear and tear issue and I cannot 
safely conclude the other diagnostic test faults were due to issues at the point of sale.
Putting things right
So while I have every sympathy with Miss C I dont consider I can tell Hitachi to allow her to 
reject the car, but it should cover the cost of repairs to the airbags.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to pay for 
the repair of the airbags. I note the car is without its MOT and it may be necessary for 
Hitachi to arrange and pay for the collection and return of the car. It should also pay Miss C 
£400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience and extra costs she has incurred.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2020.
 Ivor Graham
Ombudsman