DRN-4202106
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Zopa Bank Limited wont give her a list of providers she can transfer 
her balance to in order for her to take advantage of a promotional balance transfer offer. 
What happened
Mrs C says that she applied for a new credit card with a third party provider with the intention 
of taking advantage of their balance transfer promotion of 0% interest for 23 months and 
moving her Zopa credit card balance to the third party provider to save interest. But when 
she contacted the third party, they told her they dont accept Zopa transfers, and suggested 
she contact Zopa, which Mrs C did. She says Zopa gave her incorrect information in their 
live chat by suggesting she couldnt action a balance transfer, even though their website 
says otherwise. 
Mrs C says she found another third party provider who had a promotional offer for balance 
transfers, but they couldnt transfer to Zopa cards either, so she asked Zopa for the names 
of providers who do accept transfers to them, but she says they couldnt provide her with this 
information, and they suggested she contact providers and ask that question. Mrs C made a 
complaint to Zopa. 
Zopa partially upheld Mrs Cs complaint. They said whilst their method of completing a 
balance transfer is different to that of other providers, it is a recognised way of completing a 
balance transfer, and if another provider chooses not to support this, this would be their 
choice. They said as a gesture of goodwill, they calculated a redress offer that is based on 
her balance as of 9 May 2023. This offer is £186.56 and is calculated based on the interest 
that would have accrued over a further nine months on the card. 
Zopa said they will apply this to Mrs C's Zopa credit card to ensure she is not financially 
disadvantaged, and thus giving her a further nine months of time to discuss with her chosen 
provider how they intend to support her with having the balance transferred. Zopa 
apologised for the information she was provided during her live chat conversation on 19 April 
2023. They confirmed that the information provided was incorrect and they paid £25 to Mrs 
Cs credit card account in recognition of this. Mrs C brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. She said Zopa offered £25 for the 
incorrect advice given and refunded £186.56 in interest charges which wouldve accrued 
over nine months, which she considered fair. They also explained how Mrs C can complete 
a balance transfer which she considered reasonable. Our investigator said she understood 
not all providers support balance transfers from Zopa, but moving forward, Mrs C would 
need to speak to the individual providers to determine who accepts balance transfers from 
Zopa.
Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said Zopa arent saying they 
cant provide a balance transfer but there is no UK credit card company that accepts them 
which they know of, and this leads customers to believe this is an option for them when its 
not. She said if no UK credit card companies accepts them then this should be stated on 
their website, then as a customer you could make an informed choice at the start of the 
application as to whether you should proceed with Zopa.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Id like to explain to Mrs C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how they 
should process balance transfer requests or what information they should include on their 
website. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the 
power to instruct Zopa to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive noted what Mrs C has said about no UK credit card companies being able to transfer a 
balance to Zopa. She has cited the source of this as a third party provider forum. But here, 
Zopa have given her the details in her final response letter that she can give to any credit 
card provider to transfer a balance from them. So Im satisfied that they arent preventing her 
from transferring her balance elsewhere. And Ive no reason to believe that if a UK credit 
card provider used these details to transfer a balance in the way Zopa has set out, that this 
would not be successful. 
Im aware that Mrs C has tried two different credit card providers who wont facilitate a 
balance transfer to Zopa. But I cant hold Zopa responsible for other credit card providers not 
wanting to make a balance transfer in the method that Zopa requires. Mrs C wants Zopa to 
provide a list of providers who can facilitate a balance transfer in the way Zopa would accept 
and they arent providing her this list. 
Zopas website shows All customers can move outstanding balances from Zopa credit cards 
onto a card designed for balance transfers from another provider. You can do this by 
providing the credit card provider with the account details and C reference for your Zopa 
card, which can be found in the Zopa app. They will then make the transfer on your behalf. 
For more information about this process, please contact the credit card provider you want to 
transfer your balance to. So Im satisfied that Zopa make it clear that Mrs C can move an 
outstanding balance from her Zopa credit card onto a card designed for balance transfers 
from another provider, and that she would need to contact the credit card provider she wants 
to transfer her balance to. 
I know Mrs C feels Zopa should honour the 23 month promotional interest free balance 
transfer that she could have got with another provider, but I cant hold Zopa responsible for a 
third party not wanting to transfer a balance in the way Zopa has asked them to. Zopa have 
made a goodwill gesture to pay Mrs C £186.56 to reflect the interest that would have 
accrued over a further nine months on the card. So I do think they are trying to assist Mrs C 
as they didnt need to take this action.
I can see that Mrs C was given incorrect information on the webchat. It appears the web 
agent has misunderstood Mrs Cs query and thought she wanted to transfer a balance from 
elsewhere to them as opposed to the other way round. Im satisfied that the compensation of 
£25 which I can see Zopa paid to her account on 4 May 2023 is proportionate for the impact 
the incorrect information would have had on Mrs C, so it follows I dont require Zopa to do 
anything further. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman