DRN-3656393
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly turned 
down his business interruption insurance claim after he was forced to close his pub due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr S is also represented in this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mr S.
What happened
Mr S held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. He operates a pub.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 Mr S 
closed his pub from 21 March 2020 until 3 July 2020. 
Mr S claimed on the policy. RSA declined the claim. It said that, while the policy covered 
business interruption as a result of a notifiable disease at the premises, Mr S hadnt shown 
that Covid-19 was manifest at the premises before Government restrictions came into force. 
It also said there was no cover under the denial of access section of the property as there 
had been no damage to property.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He made the following points:
Prior to the pub closing on 21 March 2020 a number of his regular customers were 
suspected of having Covid-19 or were displaying symptoms of Covid-19. One regular 
customer had a confirmed case of Covid-19 prior to 21 March. Mr S also had Covid-
19 symptoms prior to 20 March when he lost his sense of taste and smell.
There was no material difference between the words manifesting itself at the 
premises and occurred within the vicinity of the premises. He thought that if 
something had occurred within the vicinity of the premises, then it must also have 
manifested itself at the premises.
Insurers shouldnt require actual proof that Covid-19 had manifested itself or 
occurred at the premises and a suspicion was enough. It was up to the insurer to 
rebut a policyholders claim if it asserted that a case of Covid-19 was or was 
suspected to have been on the premises.
Covid-19 had damaged Mr Ss business and so there had been damage to property 
for the purpose of the denial of access part of the policy.
There was no requirement that damage to property had to be physical damage.
Any ambiguity as to the interpretation of damage should be resolved in favour of the 
policyholder.
He referred to guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority entitled Final 
guidance: Business interruption insurance test case  proving coronavirus (Covid-
19). According to Mr S that said that where a policyholder has proved the presence 
of Covid-19 in the local area, the insurer should accept that evidence as sufficient for 
other policyholders in the same location.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
She said there was nothing to suggest that Mr S had closed his business due to a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. 
Mr S asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr Ss business. But I dont intend to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mr Ss claim.
The most relevant part of Mr Ss policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises
For this section to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on the 
business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. As Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether its most likely Mr S closed his business because there 
was a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at his premises. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its more likely than 
not that theyve suffered a loss their policy covers. A mere suspicion that a policyholder 
might have a valid claim is not enough in these circumstances.
Some policies refer to the occurrence of a disease, whereas others  like Mr Ss policy  
required there to have been a manifestation. An occurrence of a disease can take place 
without the individual who has the disease displaying symptoms. But for a disease to have 
manifested, it is likely the individual will need to have displayed symptoms or given some 
other positive sign  potentially a positive test result  at the time they were at the premises. 
It is not enough, in the circumstances of this complaint, for a pre-symptomatic individual to 
have sustained the disease and been on the premises. 
Mr S has provided the following evidence to support the fact that Covid-19 had manifested 
on the premises before he closed his business due to government restrictions.
Information about the number of Covid-19 cases in the surrounding area;
A statement from a customer (C);
Letter from Cs employer; and
Email from Cs employer.
As Mr Ss policy only covers loss caused by a notifiable disease manifesting itself at the 
premises, its not enough for there to have been cases in the surrounding area. I have to 
bear in mind that most people at that time didnt have Covid-19, so I dont think the general prevalence of Covid-19 in the local area is sufficient for me to fairly conclude that there was 
most likely a case of Covid-19 at Mr Ss premises. 
C said she became ill on 6 March 2020 while she was at work. Her manager sent her home 
as she had a cough, headache, high temperature and was shivering. C explained that she 
was in bed with these symptoms for three and a half days but then started to feel better 
(apart from the cough which lingered). She said she was aware that these were symptoms of 
Covid-19 but that they were also symptoms of influenza. She was unable to confirm whether 
it was Covid-19 as testing was not available at the time. She returned to work on 11 March 
and visited Mr Ss premises in the evening with her partner and son. She explained that both 
her partner and his son started to experience similar symptoms the following day. C said she 
visited Mr Ss premises again on 15 March 2020. 
C has provided a letter from her employer confirming she was off sick on 9 and 10 March 
2020 with a cold. Her employer has also provided an email stating that C was sent home 
on 6 March 2020 as she had a fever, headache and cough and did not return until 12 March 
2020.
But Mr S hasnt provided any evidence that C, her partner or son had symptoms of Covid-19 
whilst at the premises on 11 or 15 March. And they hadnt been tested at that point. So, I 
dont think I can fairly say that this makes it most likely there was a case manifesting itself at 
Mr Ss premises before it closed because at that stage the customers werent showing any 
symptoms. 
Mr S said that he had symptoms of Covid-19 prior to 20 March 2020. As mentioned above, 
many people who were unwell at this time didnt have Covid-19. And given that I only have 
his testimony to support this part of the claim, I dont have enough evidence to conclude that 
there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at his premises. 
I dont think any reasonable reader of words referring to a disease manifesting itself at the 
premises would interpret them as including a disease that occurred within the vicinity of the 
premises. To my mind that substantially increases the chance of a policyholder being able 
to make a claim under this part of the policy and it would not be fair to strain the wording to 
such an extent that it materially changes the nature of the risk that RSA agreed to cover.
RSA also considered Mr Ss claim under the Denial of Access section of the policy which 
covers loss caused by:
Damage to Property in the vicinity of the Premises by any of the insured Events which 
A) hinders or prevents the use of the Premises or access to them or
B) causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the vicinity of the Premises 
whether the Property used by You for the purpose of the Business shall be damaged 
or not.
Damage is defined as Accidental loss, destruction or damage.
So, there might be a valid claim under this section if there has been Damage to property in 
the vicinity of the premises, by something which would be covered under the policy and 
which prevented or hindered access to or use of the premises or caused a fall in the number 
of customers. 
As I understand it, Mr S is claiming under this extension on the basis that in his view the 
term Damage should include an infectious disease. However, I note the requirement is 
that this damage must occur to Property. The term Property is defined in the policy as Material property but shall not include Data. Given the context in which it is used I 
consider this most likely refers to physical property. I also consider this is the conclusion a 
reasonable person would come to when reading the policy at the time Mr S took it out. I 
think damage to physical property must inherently be physical damage. And I havent seen 
any evidence that property in the vicinity of Mr Ss premises, was physically damaged as a 
result of Covid-19 or the Governments restrictions. I also dont think a temporary loss of 
use of Mr Ss premises can properly be considered as damage to property.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy could properly be considered as 
ambiguous. 
The guidance mentioned by Mr S is relevant to policies which require a policyholder to 
prove the presence of Covid-19 in a particular area around their premises. Mr Ss policy is 
not such a policy. It required there to have been a manifestation of Covid-19 at the 
premises rather than in the surrounding area. 
So, I dont consider the requirements of the relevant part of the policy to have been met. I 
appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr S. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman