DRN-3771188
The complaint
Miss G says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to an 
investment scam. She says Lloyds should reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
In summary, Miss G fell victim to an investment scam. Miss G thought she was dealing with 
a legitimate company. Unfortunately Miss G had in fact been duped by fraudsters. With the 
help of the fraudsters, a cryptocurrency account was set up in Miss Gs name, which she 
had access to, and over the course of approximately four months she made three transfers 
from her Lloyds account to her cryptocurrency account. And then from there, on to what she 
thought was a company that would invest for her. Later on, Miss G had difficulty closing her 
account and was unable to obtain any funds / profits and was made to pay a withdrawal fee. 
Ultimately Miss G uncovered that she had fallen victim to a scam. Miss G, over the three 
transfers, sent funds totalling £5,162.60.
Miss G reported the matter to Lloyds. Lloyds didnt consider it was liable for the losses 
Miss G incurred.
Unhappy, Miss G brought her complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator reviewed the matter and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. The 
Investigator explained why the Contingent Reimbursement Model (often referred to as the 
CRM code) wasnt relevant in Miss Gs case, as the CRM Code requires consumers to pay 
another person  which meant the transfers Miss G made to the account in her own name at 
the cryptocurrency exchange provider werent covered.
Our Investigator then explained that banks are expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. And in this case, they were satisfied 
Miss G had authorised the transfers as she had made the bank transfers from her Lloyds 
account. 
They also didnt think Lloyds ought to have done more to identify the payments as potentially 
fraudulent in the circumstances. They didnt consider Lloyds ought to have had a cause for 
concern that Miss G was potentially at risk of financial harm, or that she was falling victim to 
a scam to an extent that it ought to have intervened and questioned her further about the 
transfers. 
With regards to the recovery of any funds, as the cryptocurrency had been moved on from 
Miss Gs cryptocurrency account, the Investigator considered there wasnt anything further 
that Lloyds could do to recover the funds.
Miss G ultimately disagreed with the Investigators opinion and thought more should have 
been done by Lloyds to prevent her losses. 
As Miss G disagreed with the Investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Lloyds should have done more to prevent Miss Gs losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Miss G was a victim of a cruel scam. But 
in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds should reimburse her. Ill 
explain why.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I want to clarify for Miss Gs benefit why the 
CRM Code isnt applicable in her case and what the relevant law and regulations were at the 
time.
Why the CRM Code isnt applicable
The CRM Code was implemented to further combat and prevent the increase of fraud. But 
the CRM Code is explicit in that it only covers a transfer of funds executed across Faster 
Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer between GBP-denominated, UK-domiciled 
accounts. 
And the CRM Code also sets out under DS1(2) (a) the scope of what the CRM Code covers 
in relation to authorised push payment (APP) fraud. And that is instances where: 
(i)The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
As the transfers Miss G made from her Lloyds account to the cryptocurrency exchange 
provider were to an account in her own name, they arent covered by or within the scope of 
the CRM Code. This is because Miss G wasnt paying another person. 
The relevant law and regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. It is agreed by all parties that Miss G made the bank transfers herself from her Lloyds 
account. So it is the case that Miss G authorised all the transfers that are in dispute. And 
under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place 
here) that means Miss G is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Miss G 
was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Lloyds have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
What does this mean for Miss G?
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss G when she made the transfers, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I cant fairly say the three transfers Miss G 
made over the four months would (or should) have alerted Lloyds that Miss G was at risk of 
financial harm, to an extent whereby it should have carried out some additional checks 
before processing the transfers. So I dont consider Lloyds are liable for the losses Miss G 
incurred. Ill explain why.
Miss G initially made a transfer of £2,517 on 22 September 2020 in branch. I have to be 
mindful that banks process a high volume of transfers and transactions each day. And a 
bank has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene on a payment against 
not holding up or delaying its customers requests. Here, I dont consider there is anything 
unusual or remarkable about the transfer or the amount that ought to have alerted Lloyds to 
the possibility Miss G was being scammed or was at risk of financial harm. Lloyds has said 
that the payment didnt flag on its systems for further questioning and given the amount the 
payment didnt have a high value checklist carried out. All things considered; I think it was 
reasonable that the payment didnt flag as suspicious  and I cant say Lloyds acted unfairly 
here. 
The next transfers Miss G made were for £1,145.60 on 5 November 2020 and £1,500 on 
8 January 2021. Again, I dont think there was anything remarkable about the transfers or 
amounts that would have warranted any intervention from Lloyds. Im also mindful Miss G 
made the second transfer around five weeks after the first transfer. And Miss G made the 
third transfer around two months after the second transfer. Given the time period between 
the three transfers, I cant say Lloyds acted unfairly in not intervening and questioning 
Miss G about the payments. 
Had the transfers occurred in a very short space of time, it may have been arguable to 
suggest that Lloyds might have had a concern  making multiple payments in a short space 
of time can be an indicator that someone may be at risk of financial harm. But when I 
consider the value of these transfers, alongside the four-month time period in which they 
were made, to my mind, it wouldnt have been an indicator to Lloyds that Miss G was at risk 
to an extent whereby it ought to have questioned her further about the transfers.
I am also mindful that there were always enough funds available for each of the transfers 
she made. Often an indicator that someone is at risk of financial harm or is likely falling 
victim to a scam is whereby the fraudster(s) attempt to obtain as much money from the 
victim and as quickly as possible  usually draining or clearing accounts before the scam is 
revealed. This didnt happen here, and the three payments were spread out over the course 
of four months. Overall, I dont think there were grounds for Lloyds to be suspicious Miss G may be a victim 
of fraud when she made the transfers to such an extent where I would expect them to 
intervene and question her further about the transfers. All things considered, I think the fact 
that Lloyds didnt flag the transfers as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Recovery of the funds
Given Miss G sent the funds to a cryptocurrency account in her own name  with her money 
being converted into cryptocurrency and moved on  there wasnt anything further Lloyds 
could do to help Miss G recover her funds. 
In summary, while I appreciate Miss Gs been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think 
Lloyds decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because Lloyds followed Miss Gs instructions to make the 
transfers and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. Unfortunately, given 
the funds Miss G transferred were exchanged into cryptocurrency and moved on, there 
wasnt anything further Lloyds could do to help Miss G recover her funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman