DRN-3537106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained that Sense Network Limited (Sense) incorrectly told Mrs R she 
couldnt claim on a serious illness policy, and then mis-sold a protection policy to them.   
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here. Mr R was a joint policy holder on the relevant policies but, for 
ease, Ive largely referred to actions and comments as those of Mrs R. 
Mrs R had been a client of Sense since around 2008. In January 2010, Mr and Mrs R were 
buying a new home and approached their Sense Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) about 
taking out a mortgage and protection policies. Its the protection policies that are the subject 
of this decision. The policy taken out at that time was a joint decreasing term life and serious 
illness plan for a term of 25 years. The sum assured matched the mortgage amount of just 
under £190,000. Ill refer to the underwriter of this plan as Company A.
In May 2011, Mr and Mrs R then took out two single, level term life assurance policies, with 
the assistance of the same Sense adviser, as Mrs R had recently given birth. The sum 
assured for each of the policies was £200,000 and the term was 20 years. Ill refer to the 
underwriter of these plans as Company B.
Mrs R was unfortunately diagnosed with skin cancer in October 2011. She underwent 
treatment, was given a very positive prognosis and no further treatment was required. 
In January 2012 Mrs R arranged to meet with the Sense adviser and an additional joint life, 
serious illness and income protection policy was taken out at that time with Company A. 
Looking only at the life and critical illness part of the policy, this provided decreasing term life 
cover of £365,000 and around £160,000 of serious illness cover. The policy term was 23 
years.
The policy taken out in January 2010 was cancelled by Company A in May 2012, as Mrs R 
had cancelled the direct debit several months earlier and premiums were not paid. 
Mrs R submitted a claim to Company A in late 2020 in relation to her 2011 cancer diagnosis, 
under the policy that was in place in October 2011. Company A accepted the claim in 
January 2021 and paid a settlement of £46,651.81. Company A said Mrs R should have 
notified it of her claim within six months of her diagnosis and, as this didnt happen, no 
interest would be paid. Company A also said Mrs Rs diagnosis wasnt disclosed to it when 
she later applied for two other policies in 2012. It said its underwriters confirmed that had it 
been aware of her diagnosis of melanoma, it wouldnt have offered these policies. As a 
result, it refunded the premiums on both, totalling around £2,500. 
Mrs R complained to Sense. She said she told the Sense adviser back in 2012 about her 
cancer diagnosis, and rather than make a claim for her, the adviser sold her a new policy 
and told her she was covered from that point on. Mrs R asked Sense to pay interest on the 
late claim settlement, as well as £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced. 
Sense responded and said as it wasnt there during the meeting between its adviser and 
Mrs R, it relied on documentation prepared at the time. Sense said this showed Mrs R had a 
shortfall in cover and the meeting in 2012 took place to arrange appropriate cover. 
Sense said its adviser had asked for the medical information required on the application form 
and the responses noted were clearly from Mrs R. It said it might have been the case that 
Mrs R was advised by her doctor that the lesion was benign, and this was what she told its 
adviser. Sense said it would normally provide clients with details of information supplied and 
policy documentation, so they could review it and report any inaccuracies to the Sense 
adviser. 
Sense said Mrs R could have made a claim either directly or indirectly with the insurer. It 
said had its adviser been made aware of an illness that might be covered by an existing 
policy, he would have assisted her and contacted the insurer. Sense also thought the 
complaint had been brought out of time by Mrs R, and so wasnt one this Service could 
consider. 
Mrs R remained unhappy and so complained to this Service. Our Investigator said Mrs Rs 
complaint had been brought to this Service in time and partially upheld it. He thought a 
conversation about Mrs Rs health took place in 2012 because some information was 
disclosed on the 2012 application. But he felt the documents relied on didnt say anything 
about Mrs R disclosing the extent of her condition. He said advisers dont assess claims, this 
is a task for the underwriter. So he didnt think there was enough information to fairly say that 
Sense was aware of the extent of Mrs Rs diagnosis and had advised her not to submit a 
claim. 
But our Investigator thought the 2012 policy was mis-sold. He said the income and 
expenditure prepared at the time didnt properly reflect whether this new policy was 
affordable. And there was no reason for this policy to replace the policy taken out in 2010, as 
the earlier policy offered broader serious illness cover, which the fact find said Mrs R 
wanted. Our Investigator said the 2012 policy premiums had already been refunded by 
Company A, but Sense should pay interest of 8% per year from the point the policy started 
to when it was refunded, and the interest calculations could be made on a month by month 
basis. He also suggested £250 for distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs R didnt agree with what our Investigator said so this came to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 April 2022. I said I intended to uphold Mrs Rs 
complaint as I thought it was more likely than not that the actions of the Sense adviser 
caused Mrs R to be in the position where a claim was not submitted to Company A in 2012, 
when it could have been. I said I intended to ask Sense to pay interest on the settlement 
amount from Company A at 8% per annum simple from 14 March 2012 to the date Company 
A settled the claim in 2021. 
I said I also intended to uphold Mrs Rs mis-sale complaint, although I didnt intend to ask 
Sense to take any further action as Company A had already refunded the premiums on the 
mis-sold policies. I said Sense should pay Mrs R £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Both parties were given the opportunity to respond. Mrs R responded and agreed with the 
outcome. Sense also responded and didnt have any further comments to make. I am now in a position to issue a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sense says Mrs Rs complaint has been brought outside the relevant time limits. But Im 
satisfied this Service can consider Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our Service can consider a wide variety of complaints about financial services, but we arent 
free to look into every complaint thats referred to us. The rules that set out what complaints 
we can consider are the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority handbook.
One of these rules (DISP 2.8.2 R) says we cannot consider a complaint, unless the business 
consents, if it was referred to us more than:  
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R was as a result of exceptional circumstances 
Looking first of all at DISP 2.8.2 (a), Im satisfied that Mrs Rs complaint about Sense 
incorrectly advising her about a claim back in 2012 was made more than six years after that 
particular event, since Mrs R didnt complain to Sense until 2021. 
Ive then looked at DISP 2.8.2 (b), namely, when Mrs R became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that she had cause for complaint. I dont think Mrs R would 
reasonably have been aware that she had cause for complaint back in 2012. Her testimony 
is that she was told she couldnt claim for the particular condition she suffered from and she 
accepted this. It wasnt until she had a financial review in 2020 and subsequently submitted 
and had a claim paid by Company A that she became aware that she had cause to complain 
about the Sense advisers actions back in 2012. This complaint was therefore made within 
the three year time limit. So Im satisfied that Mrs Rs complaint has been brought to this 
Service within the time limits and is one we can consider. 
So Ive considered Mrs Rs complaint. Firstly, I want to assure Mrs R that I have taken all of 
the information provided into consideration, even if not every point made by Mrs R is 
mentioned in this decision. Ill only address the comments and evidence I see to be relevant 
in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Mrs R complains she told the Sense adviser about her cancer diagnosis and he didnt make 
a claim on her behalf. The difficulty I have in looking at this complaint about what was or 
wasnt said in the meeting Mrs R had with the adviser is that I wasnt there, and so cant 
know what was said. So I have to rely on evidence brought to me by both parties. 
Mrs R has provided her testimony of what was said in that meeting. No testimony has been 
provided by Sense, but it has provided a great deal of documentation. 
Ive looked carefully at all of the documents relating to the 2012 meeting, including the Your 
Information document. This is a key document that I would usually rely heavily on. However there are problems with the accuracy of the information in this document and Ive think its 
fair to say there are too many inaccuracies for me to be able to reasonably rely on it as being 
representative of why the meeting happened, what Mrs Rs needs were at that time, what 
was discussed and why specific recommendations were made. 
For clarity, some of the inaccuracies I am referring to are: 
A reference to Mrs Rs residential mortgage being protected by life cover only. This is 
not the case. The mortgage was protected by both life and serious illness cover that 
had been arranged by the same Sense adviser in 2010. 
In a similar vein, a question in the form asking if Mrs Rs mortgage would be cleared 
if she was to die or suffer from a critical illness has been incorrectly answered no. 
A reference to the life and serious illness policy taken out in 2010 already being 
cancelled, when this was not the case. Its my understanding the Sense adviser 
didnt cancel this policy when the new one was taken out  as I would have expected. 
Instead he asked Mrs R to cancel her direct debit and so the policy was eventually 
cancelled by Company A around four months later. 
A second reference to the policy with Company A that says during an attempt to 
make monthly savings in 2011, they cancelled the protection plans in force. As I 
said, this is incorrect.
A sparse and inadequate income and expenditure that, for example, didnt account 
for food and clothing expenses. 
A reference to three mortgaged properties, including two buy to let properties. From 
what I can see, this is incorrect. Mrs R says there was only one mortgaged buy to let 
property. Having looked at both earlier and later documents provided by Sense, I can 
see evidence of only one mortgaged buy to let property. In addition, I can see that 
the Sense adviser assisted Mrs R in insuring her properties in 2012, and only two 
properties, Mrs Rs home and one buy to let property, were insured. 
A reference to each mortgaged property having a 23 year mortgage term. Based on 
all of the evidence provided, it seems this is incorrect and the buy to let mortgage 
had a shorter mortgage term, as it had been owned for longer. 
The outstanding mortgage balance on the residential property is listed as £160,000, 
while the application form for a new mortgage over two years later, when Mrs R was 
moving home, lists the outstanding mortgage as around £169,000
From what I can see, the outstanding mortgage balance listed on the buy to let 
property  £75,000  is incorrect and was higher than is suggested in earlier and 
later documents. Its my understanding that the outstanding amount was £58,000 and 
wouldnt change as its an interest only mortgage.  
A reference to the meeting being set up as Mrs R wanted to arrange cover for her 
residential and buy to let mortgage. As outlined above, Mrs R already had adequate 
cover. 
These arent minor or inconsequential inaccuracies. These are key pieces of information that 
would have been relied on by the Sense adviser to justify selling an additional protection 
policy to Mrs R. So given the significant inaccuracies in this particular document, I dont think 
it would be fair for me to rely on it in the way I usually would. 
Ive also looked carefully at what Mrs R has said, and I am more persuaded by her 
testimony. Specifically: 
Mrs R was diagnosed with cancer in October 2011 and by January 2012 was coming 
to the end of her cancer treatment. She said it was at this point that she contacted 
the Sense adviser to discuss her diagnosis with a view to making a claim. This 
seems plausible. From what Ive seen, Mrs R is someone who has taken steps to 
ensure she has adequate cover for, for instance, her mortgage and to provide for her 
children in the event of her passing away. So it makes sense that she would want to check if she was covered under her serious illness policy following her cancer 
diagnosis. By 2012 Mrs R had built up a relationship with the Sense adviser and so, 
again, it makes sense that she would contact him, rather than the insurer, about 
possibly making a claim.
When Mrs R contacted this Service she said she was told by the Sense adviser that 
her condition wasnt serious enough for her to make a claim. And its certainly the 
case that some critical or serious illness policies will not pay claims for conditions 
such as Mrs Rs. If Mrs R had taken out a policy with a different insurer, then it might 
have been the case that her condition was not severe enough for her to meet the 
policy definition. However, her particular policy provided cover for less severe forms 
of cancer. Its possible the Sense adviser didnt consider the terms of the particular 
policy she bought. I think that what Mrs R said about being told by the Sense adviser 
that her condition wasnt serious enough for a claim to be submitted is plausible.   
Its clear Mrs R did disclose some information to the adviser about her condition, as 
the application form mentions a benign mole that had been removed. I think its 
unlikely that Mrs R failed to disclose the extent of her condition to the adviser, as 
theres no reason for her to do this. She already had adequate cover in place, so it 
seems unlikely she downplayed her condition in order to take out another policy. I 
think its more likely than not that her reason for disclosing her condition would have 
been to see if she could claim under the cover she already had in place. If she was 
disclosing her condition to see if a claim could be made, then its more likely than not 
that she disclosed the full extent of her condition. 
What I need to do here is make a decision about what is more likely than not to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities, in relation to whether Mrs R told the Sense 
adviser about her recent diagnosis and whether she was told a claim wouldnt be successful.  
Having carefully considered all of the evidence, Im persuaded that its more likely than not 
that Mrs R contacted the Sense adviser following her treatment for cancer to check whether 
she would be able to make a claim; that the adviser didnt properly consider the terms of her 
particular policy  where, unlike some other policies, she would have received a settlement 
for a less severe condition  and Mrs R relied on what he said. Mrs R had relied on him for a 
number of years to provide her with a mortgage, protection policies and home insurance 
policies and is likely to have trusted his judgement, given that he was the professional and 
the more knowledgeable of the two in this situation. At that stage, Mrs R was told that her 
cancer had been successfully removed and so I can see how shes likely to have agreed that 
her condition was not so serious that it might have met the requirements for a serious illness 
claim. This might explain why she didnt go directly to the insurer herself, which of course 
she could have done. But the issue here is that the adviser should not have told her she 
couldnt make a claim. Its not his role to do this. 
What this means is that Im satisfied it was more likely than not that it was the actions of the 
Sense adviser that caused Mrs R to be in the position where a claim was not submitted to 
Company A back in 2012, when it could have been. Mrs R didnt receive a claim settlement 
until 2021, when a different adviser reviewed her finances and suggested a claim might have 
been successful, and so was deprived of the settlement amount for some years. 
In order to put things right I think Sense should pay interest on the settlement amount at 8% 
per annum simple. Ive considered when the interest should be paid from. The meeting with 
the Sense adviser was 18 January 2012 and I think it would be reasonable to assume a 
claim made at that point would have taken around 8 weeks to assess. So I think its fair for 
interest to be paid from 14 March 2012 to the date Company A settled the claim in 2021. 
Ive also looked at whether the Sense adviser mis-sold the protection policy bought by Mrs R 
following the meeting in January 2012. Ive already outlined the areas in the Your Information document that are inaccurate. Some of these are relevant here, so Ill repeat 
them for clarity. 
Mrs R already had adequate life and serious illness cover with Company A for her mortgage, 
and she and Mr R had separate life cover of £200,000 each with Company B. A reference 
was made in the paperwork to all of the above policies being cancelled before the meeting 
was held, when this was not the case. Although I note theres also a reference to the 
individual life policies still being in place. Nonetheless, from what I can see, there was no 
shortfall in cover here, as suggested in the paperwork. 
The income and expenditure drawn up was incomplete. It didnt include expenditure such as 
food or clothing. This means the budget calculations that came from the income and 
expenditure plan arent likely to be accurate. So given that the budget calculations are 
flawed and that there was no shortfall in cover, Im satisfied that the policy sold to Mrs R 
following the January 2012 meeting was one she didnt need and so was mis-sold. 
I know that Sense has said the new policies provided comparable cover, but I dont agree 
that this is the case. From what I can see, the monthly premium for the policy taken out in 
2010 with Company A was £95.79 and the combined premium for the two life policies with 
Company B was £22.54. So the cost of the various protection policies that were in place 
when the meeting was held in January 2012 was £118.33. However, the monthly premium 
for the policy recommended by the Sense adviser in 2012 was £121.93. So theres no cost 
saving to Mrs R here. Theres also a decrease in cover as the 2012 policy doesnt provide 
full serious illness cover for her mortgage  a lower, incorrect mortgage balance is listed. In 
addition, the cover provided in 2012 is on a decreasing term basis, while the two £200,000 
life policies through Company B were level term.  
The issue here is that even if the policy sold in 2012 was comparable, this is not enough. Its 
got to be the case that if an IFA is selling a policy designed to cover roughly the same 
commitments, then theres got to be a benefit to the consumer. Otherwise the only benefit is 
to the IFA through additional commission payments from the insurer. And Ive not seen that 
there was a benefit to Mrs R. So, as I said, I am satisfied the policy sold to Mrs R in 2012 
was mis-sold. 
When a policy is mis-sold, I might tell the business in question to put things right by 
refunding the premiums paid to the consumer. However, in this case, Company A has 
already refunded the premiums. I can see that our Investigator suggested Sense should pay 
interest on the premiums paid, but I think that if the 2012 policy hadnt been sold to Mrs R 
then she would most likely have kept her other policy in place, at least until 2014 when the 
policy bought in 2012 was cancelled. So I dont think theres any need to pay interest when I 
think Mrs R would have continued to pay premiums on the policy taken out in 2010. 
Ive considered whether a payment for distress and inconvenience is fair here. Its certainly 
the case that errors have been made, but this Service doesnt punish businesses for errors 
made. Instead we look at whether errors caused any distress or inconvenience to the 
consumer. Ive no doubt that Mrs R must have been very pleased to hear in 2021 that her 
claim was successful. Equally Im sure it would have caused her some distress to know that 
this claim could have been paid some years ago. So I think its fair to award compensation 
for distress and inconvenience, and Im satisfied the amount of £250 suggested by our 
Investigator is fair.  
Mrs R also complained that Sense incorrectly recorded the details of her cancer diagnosis 
on the application form for the policy taken out in 2012. I agree that its likely Mrs R disclosed 
the full details of her medical condition to the Sense adviser, and that this was then likely 
recorded incorrectly by him. Company A said they wouldnt have provided her with the policy if they had known about her cancer diagnosis and so have refunded all premiums. So theres 
no loss to Mrs R as a result of that error and Im not asking Sense to take any further action 
here. 
My final decision
I require Sense Network Limited to pay interest at 8% per annum simple on the settlement 
amount paid to Mrs R by Company A in 2021, calculated from 14 March 2012 to the date the 
settlement amount was paid by Company A to Mrs R.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman