DRN-4445785
Complaint
Miss S has complained about a credit card Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) 
provided to her. She says the credit card was given to her irresponsibly.
Background
Barclaycard provided Miss S with a credit card with a limit of £400 in May 2022. The limit on 
the card was never increased, but it was decreased to £350 in September 2022 and £300 in 
January 2023. I understand that the balance has been repaid and that the account has since 
been closed.
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss S and Barclaycard had told us. And she 
thought Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Miss S complaint be upheld. 
Miss S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss S complaint.
Barclaycard needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Barclaycard needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether         
Miss S could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Barclaycard says it initially agreed to Miss S application after it obtained information on her 
income and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Miss S 
would be able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. 
On the other hand Miss S says that the card was provided to her at a difficult time and when 
she shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Miss S was provided with a revolving credit facility rather 
than a loan. This means that Barclaycard was required to understand whether a credit limit 
of £400 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in one go. As a 
credit limit of £400 requires relatively small monthly payments in order to clear the full 
amount owed within a reasonable period of time, it sometimes wouldnt be unfair for a firm to 
carry out low level of check to reflect the proportionality of the risk to the customer. 
That said, Barclaycard didnt rely on a low level of check and its clear that it actually carried 
out a number of checks here before deciding to lend to Miss S. It carried out a credit check 
which indicated that Miss S had a bank account, but no other discernible active credit 
accounts in her name. And she didnt have much in the way of credit accounts in the past 
either. 
Furthermore, Miss S declared that she was in receipt of an annual income of £15,000.00. As 
I understand it Miss S also declared that she wasnt working at the time. So Barclaycard 
cross-checked this declaration which, in my view, was sensible in the circumstances. 
Barclaycards cross-check was against information on a check that it carried out with credit 
reference agencies in order to get an idea whether the amount of money going into Miss S 
current account each month supported the possibility of her receiving £15,000.00 a year. 
The check suggested that Miss S declaration of what she received was broadly accurate. 
Equally, when an amount for Miss S existing commitments was deducted from what she 
received each moth, Barclaycard concluded that Miss S had sufficient funds remaining to 
make the low monthly payment required to repay the balance within a reasonable period of 
time. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Barclaycard didnt just simply rely on what it was 
being told in this instance. 
As Barclaycard provided an initial low credit limit to reflect Miss S didnt have much in the 
way of an existing credit history and carried out a number of checks before deciding that the 
payments to this limit were likely to be affordable to Miss S, Im satisfied that what 
Barclaycard did before providing Miss S with her credit card was reasonable and 
proportionate. 
I accept that Miss S says that her actual circumstances at the time were worse than what 
she declared and what the information Barclaycard obtained showed. Im sorry to hear that 
Miss S has been unable to work and Ive also thought about what shes said about the 
composition of her income. 
But Im satisfied that Barclaycard was entitled to rely on the funds Miss S received as 
income. Indeed, I dont think that it would have been fair and reasonable for Barclaycard to 
have automatically declined Miss S application on the basis that her income was made up of 
benefits either. Instead, I would have expected it to assess whether what Miss S received 
was sufficient to repay what she could owe and Im satisfied thats what Barclaycard did 
here. 
Id also add that whilst Im sympathetic in relation to what Miss S has said about her 
condition and what this means for her spending, I dont think that Barclaycard could possibly 
have known about this without some form of declaration or warning as it simply wouldnt 
have had access to Miss S medical records. 
Given what Barclaycards income and expenditure assessment showed, the amount of the 
likely monthly payments and Ive not been provided with anything that clearly contradicts 
Miss S having had the funds to make the low payments required, Im not persuaded that it was unfair or unreasonable for Barclaycard to have offered Miss S her credit card. And as 
this is the case, I dont think that it was irresponsible for Barclaycard to have lent to Miss S.
So overall while I can understand Miss S sentiments, I dont think that Barclaycard treated       
Miss S unfairly or unreasonably when providing her with her credit card. And Im not 
upholding Miss S complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss S. But I 
hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns 
have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman