DRN-3073983
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Shawbrook upheld the complaint and offered to restructure the loan so the solar panels 
would effectively be self-funding over the ten-year term of the loan and gave Mr H options for 
how the overpayments (plus compensatory interest) should be used  either to be paid to 
him or used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan. Shawbrook also offered £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr H rejected this offer. He said he wanted a full refund of what hed paid, with the 
outstanding balance of the loan written off but for him to keep the solar panels (effectively 
making them free), for Shawbrook to pay his representatives fees and to pay him additional 
compensation.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Shawbrooks 
offer of settlement was fair and reasonable. Because Mr H did not accept this the complaint 
has been passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I have decided that Shawbrooks offer of settlement is fair and 
reasonable, although I expect the compensatory interest on the overpayments to be 
calculated for the full period of time Mr H is without the money  rather than being limited as 
Shawbrook suggested in its final response letter. 
So, I set out below what Shawbrook must do to put things right.
I have thought about what Mr H has said and the redress he has requested. But I dont think 
what hes requested would be fair and reasonable. The redress offered by Shawbrook, 
which is in line with our approach to cases like this, means that what he was promised (that 
the solar panels would be self-funding) is what will happen. And he will have ten further 
years where he will benefit from the Feed-In Tariff payments and energy savings. To go 
further than this would in this case seem disproportionate and unfair on Shawbrook.
In regards to the fees of Mr Hs representatives, we do not usually expect financial 
businesses to meet these costs  and I see no reason why Shawbrook should do so in this 
case. Complaints can be made for free to financial businesses and to this service without the 
use of professional representatives. And Mr H will presumably have been aware of how his 
representative would need to be paid in the event his complaint was successful  before he 
agreed to use their services. 
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr H from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr H is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr H by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mr Hs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr H have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr H accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr H has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr H has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Shawbrook and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr H paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr H paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Shawbrook should pay Mr H £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman