DRN-2178842
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the inadequate boiler services he received from Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) under his HomePlan policy.
References to RSA include its agents and contractors.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, our investigators view on Mr Hs complaint, and Mr Hs 
response to her view, I dont consider that there is any significant dispute as to the factual 
background behind this complaint. RSA has accepted that Mr H received poor service over a 
number of years.  I consider what is in issue is whether what RSA has offered to Mr H by 
way of compensation is reasonable. Mr H argues that it isnt.
I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr H and his family were without heating and hot water for approximately seven days 
because their boiler had broken down. It couldnt be repaired promptly because of 
the issue that was then identified with the flue which RSAs engineers had failed to 
identify on any previous visits. I can appreciate that being without heating and hot 
water wouldve caused considerable inconvenience, particularly as Mr H has a young 
family. Mr H also experienced stress from the various problems that arose with the 
arrangements to get the boiler repaired. I consider that this is a situation where 
compensation is appropriate. As the inconvenience and stress was for a relatively 
limited period of time, I consider that the £345 that RSA has offered is a fair and 
reasonable sum to reflect this.
Mr H also says he and his wife were very concerned that for the previous seven 
years theyd been living with a gas boiler which was subject to possible toxic leaks. 
That wasnt a risk that existed after the boiler broke down. But they were concerned 
about what couldve happened, whether or not that concern was justified. BG has 
said the family wasnt exposed to any danger. The flue gas analysis and CO2 
readings its engineers took were within the manufacturers guidelines, and the 
manufacturer had confirmed to it that the failure to change the flue connector 
wouldnt have exposed them to any danger.
Whilst I dont wish to minimise Mr Hs concern about what might have happened, I 
consider that to require RSA to pay compensation for something it failed to do in the 
past but which didnt give rise to concern at the time, would be more in the nature of 
a fine or penalty. Awards of compensation that this service can make arent intended 
to fine or punish a business. This is the job of the businesss regulator. We can 
award fair compensation that's a proportionate reflection of the impact a business's 
actions (or inaction) had on their customer. So I dont consider additional 
compensation is appropriate to cover this concern.
RSA has accepted that its engineers failed to identify the absence of flue inspection 
hatches and that the flue connector had been recalled by the boilers manufacturer 
so this could be replaced. Once these issues had eventually been identified, it made 
arrangements for the necessary remedial work to be undertaken by its engineers in 
conjunction with the manufacturers engineers. In that respect, as soon as the 
problems were identified, it took steps to put things right.
But before these steps had been completed, Mr H decided to replace his boiler as he 
wasnt prepared to risk the remedial work dragging on, as appointments with RSA 
and the manufacturers engineers kept being rearranged. He wants RSA to pay for 
this. RSA has said that his existing boiler was repairable, so there was no need for 
Mr H to have purchased a new one. I consider that if there was no need for a new 
boiler, it would be unreasonable for me to require RSA to pay for a replacement.  
Mr H would like RSA to refund the full premiums he paid for his HomePlan policy 
from the date he took it out in September 2012. His policy provides cover not just for 
boilers (although I note that he says this was all he wanted the policy for), but also 
provides cover for central heating, plumbing, electrics, internal drains, water and gas 
supply pipes, taps and toilets. Hes made a number of calls on the policy in addition 
to the annual boiler services, so hes had benefit from it. I therefore dont think it 
would be reasonable to require RSA to provide a full refund of his premiums. Its 
offered to refund to him that part of his premiums that it says relates to boiler cover 
which amounts to £360. As its only RSAs service in relation to his boiler that Mr H 
has complained about, I think that is a fair and reasonable. 
I consider RSAs offer of £45 to cover additional heating costs whilst Mr Hs boiler 
was out of operation is reasonable.
Mr H has also asked that we ensure that RSA investigate why its contractors are not 
up to date with current gas requirements and require that it should review all its 
customers who could be at risk from the poor level of inspections. Im afraid I cant 
address this part of Mr Hs complaint as to require RSA to do this is outside the remit 
of this service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, and dont require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do anything other than to pay Mr H the sum of £750 
that its already offered him if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman