DRN-2720369
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited placed on her car after a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants a fair price for her car or else a like for 
like replacement. 
What happened
Mrs Ws car was declared a total loss and esure offered her £9,127 in settlement of her 
claim. esure deducted the policy excess and £127 from the settlement because of existing 
damage and dog hair inside the car. Mrs W was unhappy with this as she couldnt find a 
replacement for £9,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
had made its valuation of the pre-accident market value of Mrs Ws car correctly according to 
our approach. She thought it was entitled to make a deduction for the previous damage. And 
so she thought its settlement offer was fair and reasonable.
Mrs W replied that shed read that the prices for second hand cars had increased because of 
the pandemic. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs W wants a fair price for her car. She thought esure should provide 
her with a like for like replacement. But this isnt provided by her policy. Mrs Ws policy 
provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. This is defined in the policy:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on 
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at 
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides 
including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mrs W disagrees with our approach. But its one we use to be fair to all 
parties.
Our investigator thought esures valuation was fair and reasonable. So Ive looked to see 
how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she looked in the motor trade guides we use 
for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mrs Ws at the time of the 
accident. She found that the average provided by the guides was £9,190. I think this was 
within the range of what esure had offered Mrs W, so I think its valuation was fair and 
reasonable.  
Mrs W conducted research into the advertised prices for cars similar to hers. She found 
these to be higher than esures offer. But we dont find advertisements particularly 
persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason 
that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
esure made a deduction of £127 for previous damage. It said the interior of the car was 
stained and covered in dog hair. It also said that there was some damage to exterior body 
trims. Ive seen that esure calculated the deduction for the pre-accident damage as less than 
half of the likely repair costs, which is what wed expect. So I think that was fair and 
reasonable.
So I think esures settlement offer for the pre-accident market value of Mrs Ws car was 
made correctly according to our approach., I think esure made a reasonable deduction for 
the cars pre-existing damage. And so I think esure has acted fairly and reasonably and in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman