DRN-1640520
The complaint
Mr O complains that the direct debit on his loan account with Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) was cancelled in January 2019. Mr O 
says he didnt know the direct debit had been cancelled. BPF then defaulted his account, 
and he complains this had a negative impact on his credit rating.
What happened
Mr O started a four fixed term credit agreement with BPF in July 2016, and payments were 
to be made each month by direct debit.
Two direct debits were returned as unpaid in June and August 2018. Each of these were 
represented by BPF and subsequently paid.
In early July 2018, BPF attempted to contact Mr O after a letter it sent him about the first 
unpaid direct debit was returned as Gone away. BPF then attempted to contact Mr O by 
telephone and left a voice message. And it sent Mr O a text message. These contacts were 
made using the telephone number Mr O provided when he applied for the fixed term loan.
BPF wrote to Mr O regarding the second unpaid direct debit in August 2018.
In December 2018, a direct debit was returned unpaid, and after BPF represented it for 
payment, it was returned unpaid again. And, in January 2019, a direct debit was returned 
unpaid, and after BPF represented it for payment, it was also returned unpaid again.
BPF issued a Default Notice to Mr O in February 2019 and sent it to the address it held for 
Mr O. In this letter, BPF told Mr O that if he didnt act by a specific date, it would notify the 
credit reference agencies that his account was in default, which could make it harder for him 
to get credit in the future.
In July 2019, BPF wrote to Mr O, at the address it held for him, and provided details of the 
arrears on the account. The letter included an information sheet from the Financial Conduct 
Authority that explained missed payments could affect Mr Os credit rating if he did nothing.
In October 2019, Mr O called BPF and complained it hadnt told him the direct debits had 
been returned unpaid, or that it had cancelled the direct debit or that his account was in 
arrears. In his first call to BPF, Mr O updated his address and contact details. In his 
complaint, which he made during the calls he made, Mr O said that BPF shouldve contacted 
him by email if it couldnt contact him by letter or telephone. And he said the impact of the 
adverse credit information BPF registered had prevented him from taking out a new 
mortgage. Mr O said this had a significant impact because his family business bought 
properties and the adverse credit information stopped him taking out a mortgage to buy a 
property.
In its final response to the complaint in November 2019, BPF told Mr O it didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said it had stopped taking the direct debits as two consecutive directs debits 
were returned unpaid, and when it applied to debit the account again, they were returned 
unpaid. BPF confirmed it took the decision to cancel the direct debit.
BPF said it had written to Mr O in February 2019 and provided a Default Notice, and that in 
July 2019 it provided an account of the arrears and outstanding balance. BPF said it had 
sent these two letters to the address Mr O provided on his application. And said it had also 
tried to contact Mr O on the telephone numbers he had provided on the application but 
hadnt been unsuccessful.
BPF said Mr O was required to keep it updated with any change of address, and as he didnt 
do so, it cant be held responsible for Mr O not receiving the letters it sent him. BPF believes 
the information it provided to the credit reference agencies was an accurate reflection of the 
way the account had been managed and said it wouldnt amend it.
Mr O was unhappy with the response BPF provided and complained to this Service.
After reviewing the evidence provided, our investigator thought that BPF didnt do anything 
wrong because Mr O hadnt provided details of his new address and contact details. As a 
result, BPF was unable to contact him, but it did serve the Default Notice at his last known 
address and this was reasonable.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that when BPF became aware the direct debit due in June 2018 had been 
returned unpaid, it wrote to Mr O at the address he had provided on the fixed term loan 
agreement. This letter was returned as Gone away and the records provided by BPF show 
it made a telephone call to Mr O and sent a text message when it became aware of this. It is 
reasonable for me to conclude these were to the telephone numbers Mr O provided when he 
applied for the loan. And as Mr O confirmed these had since changed, this is most likely the 
reason why BPF couldnt contact Mr O at this time.
The crux of Mr Os complaint is that he believes BPF didnt take reasonable steps to tell him 
he had missed payments, and that payments had been stopped. He says that BPF knew by 
mid-July 2018 the letter it sent him in June 2018 had been returned Gone away. but it still 
sent a letter about a second unpaid direct debit to his old address in mid-August 2018. BPF 
probably shouldnt have sent this letter to an address that Mr O may not have been living at, 
but overall, I think it acted reasonably in trying to contact Mr O around this time. It had 
written to him, left him a voicemail and sent him text message.
I have considered if BPFs decision not to send an email to the Mr O at the time, but BPF 
says it doesnt use emails because it doesnt consider them secure. I appreciate Mr O has a 
different view in this regard, but I dont think the position BPF took here was unreasonable, 
especially as it tried other forms of contact.
In his telephone calls with BPF in October 2019, Mr O said he had left this address 
sometime in 2016 but couldnt remember when. Mr O confirmed he had a re-direction placed 
on this address for any post for about 2 years. It may well be that the re-direction didnt work, 
or it had expired by July 2018, as it was about two years since the re-direction had been 
arranged. However, this isnt something I can hold BPF responsible for. It was ultimately the 
responsibility of Mr O to keep BPF informed of changes to his address and contract details. 
The fixed term loan agreement explains this in the terms and conditions section, and in the 
Your loan explained document provided at the time.I appreciate that Mr O feels it is unreasonable to suggest he should have seen this when he 
signed the agreement in a busy shop. However, these documents provided Mr O with 
important information about the loan and his responsibilities to BPF. 
I have seen the two directs debits due in December 2018 and January 2019 were returned 
unpaid. And were unpaid a second time BPF attempted to collect them. This meant Mr O 
was two months in arrears on the account by the end of January 2019.
As BPF knew it didnt have up to date contact details for Mr O at this time, it didnt write to 
him to tell him the two direct debits remained unpaid. Or to tell him it had made the decision 
to stop taking the direct debits. Although Mr O doesnt understand why BPF stopped taking 
payments when it did, I think it was reasonable for it to do so in the circumstances of this 
case. Simply representing the direct debits would likely mean Mr O paying more changes if 
they werent paid.  Considering BPF had no contact details for Mr O, other than an email 
address which it didnt consider secure, I think it was a reasonable decision for BPF to stop 
further attempts to take payment.
BPF then issued a Default Notice to Mr Os last known address in February 2019. This letter 
explained the account was in arrears, told Mr O his outstanding balance and asked him to 
pay the arrears. This is what I would expect a lender to do and met the obligations BPF has 
under sections 87 and 88 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr O has questioned why BPF 
sent this letter to an address it knew he didnt live there. However, I consider it is reasonable 
practice for BPF to serve a Default Notice when it did, and to the last known address Mr O 
had provided.
Im satisfied that if Mr O had notified BPF of his change of address and contact details, BPF 
would have served the Default Notice to him at his new address. Mr O would then have had 
the opportunity to take steps to prevent the Default Notice being registered. 
The information with the credit reference agencies reflects how Mr O managed his account. 
However, Mr O may want to contact the credit reference agencies to enquire whether they 
will allow him to record the circumstances surrounding the Default Notice.
My final decision
For the reasons provided above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint and I wont be asking 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to any further 
action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman