DRN-2304155
The complaint
Miss M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) refused to allow her to 
port her mortgage to another property, which means that she incurred an early redemption 
charge (ERC). She wants Virgin Money to apologise, refund the ERC and pay her 
compensation.
What happened
Miss M had a mortgage with Virgin Money on her main residential property. She decided to 
sell that property and move into a buy-to-let property that she also owned. As there was an 
ERC on her main residential mortgage she spoke to Virgin Money about porting that 
mortgage over to the other property.
Virgin Money initially found that the mortgage wasnt affordable. But it applied to 
underwriters for an exception, which was granted. And it instructed a valuation on the 
property. But its valuer said that the property wasnt suitable as it was leasehold. Virgin 
Money queried this, as its policy would have allowed it to lend on leasehold properties in 
certain circumstances. But the valuer confirmed that the property was not suitable security 
and so Virgin Money declined the application on that basis.
Miss M complained to Virgin Money. And Virgin Money responded. It said, in summary: 
In all cases it instructed a fully qualified valuer on its valuation panel with the requisite 
valuation knowledge and experience to operate within the relevant local area;
It had referred back to the valuer when Miss M raised concerns but the valuer had 
maintained that the property wasnt suitable security. While it appreciated Miss Ms 
disappointment it couldnt ignore the information it had been given and it was 
therefore unable to uphold this part of the complaint.
It was sorry that the valuer had initially stated that the property was outside of the 
lending criteria when this was not the case. And it noted that it had already agreed to 
refund the valuation fee of approximately £300 as a gesture of goodwill.
It also agreed with Miss M that it had initially taken too long to reach a decision about 
her application, and it offered her £100 to say sorry for this delay.
Miss M wasnt happy with Virgin Moneys response and referred her complaint to this 
service. 
our investigators view
Our investigator thought that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. But Virgin Money didnt 
agree, and so the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
my provisional view
I issued my provisional view to both parties on 8 October 2020. I said, in summary:
Id seen a copy of the mortgage offer that was made to Miss M in 2017. Paragraph 
10 of the offer letter set out that an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was 
redeemed before 1 April 2022. And the paragraph went on to say:
Provided that we are willing to accept a mortgage application from you in the future 
we will allow you to transfer the remainder of this mortgage product to your next 
property.
I was provisionally satisfied from this that it was made clear to Miss M that an ERC 
would be payable if the mortgage was redeemed early and that, while porting was 
possible, it was conditional upon Virgin Money accepting a mortgage application.
Where Virgin Money was considering a porting application, it was reasonable for it to 
instruct a valuation to ensure that the new property was suitable security for the 
mortgage. When Virgin Money initially received the valuation report it queried it with 
the valuer. And, given that its policy allows it to lend on certain leasehold properties I 
agree that it was right to do so. But the valuer said that his view related to the 
marketability of the property. And, on that basis, Virgin Money declined the 
application.
Virgin Money said that it declined Miss Ms application on the basis of its valuers 
professional opinion, which ultimately stated that the property was not suitable for 
mortgage purposes. I agreed that it was entitled to rely on the advice of its 
professional valuer. And so, although I appreciated that Miss M didnt agree with the 
view that the valuer reached in relation to the saleability of the property my 
provisional view was that I was not persuaded that Virgin Money had done anything 
wrong.
I noted that Virgin Money has already refunded the valuation fee to Miss M as a 
gesture of goodwill. I considered this to be reasonable in the circumstances. And my 
provisional view was that I didnt require Virgin Money to do anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has responded to my provisional decision. She doesnt agree with the conclusions I 
reached. She says, in particular, that Virgin Money didnt query the valuers decision until 
she prompted it to do so on two occasions. And she reiterates that there is a strong market 
and high demand for similar properties in the area. So she feels that, at the least, Virgin 
Money should have queried the valuers decision again and that it should have requested a 
second opinion.
Ive carefully considered what Miss M has to say but, having done so, I havent been 
persuaded to change my decision. 
Miss M says that Virgin Money didnt query the valuers opinion until she prompted it to do 
so. But she says that it did go back to the valuer on two occasions following discussions with 
her. And, although I appreciate the point Miss M is making, Im persuaded that Virgin Money 
acted reasonably in going back to the valuer for clarification.
Ultimately, the valuer confirmed that his view related to the marketability of the property.  I 
appreciate that Miss M doesnt agree with the view that the valuer reached. And I appreciate 
that she feels that Virgin Money should have obtained a second opinion. But as Ive 
previously explained, Virgin Money is entitled to rely on the advice of its professional valuer. 
So this doesnt change my decision. 
As Ive not been persuaded to change my decision I confirm it here.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman