DRN-4154186
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy Santander UK Plc shared her bank statements with a third party without 
her authorisation.
What happened
In September 2022 a third party requested copies of Miss Bs account statements. Initially 
Santander rejected the request but later after a further request was made, they sent Miss Bs 
statements to a third party when they shouldnt have. 
When Miss B became aware she complained to Santander. They acknowledged theyd 
made a mistake, apologised and offered £250, later increasing this to £500.  Miss B 
remained unhappy and brought her concerns to this service.
Our investigator looked into it and upheld the complaint. She felt given the significant impact 
on Miss B, in particular the fact that the third party had used the information theyd obtained 
to support their case to bring civil proceedings against Miss B, that an additional £350 was 
due bringing the total compensation to £850. Santander agreed but Miss B felt this wasnt 
sufficient to cover the impact of their actions and didnt compensate her for out of pocket 
expenses in relation to a police interview. As a resolution wasnt reached it has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have accepted they made a mistake, so the only thing for me to consider is if 
theyve done enough to put things right. Miss B doesnt feel £850 compensation sufficiently 
compensates for the distress and inconvenience and out of pocket expenses shes incurred.
Im aware Miss B has been in dispute with the third party for some time. And I recognise 
Miss B was undoubtedly put to extra distress due to the error and that it had added fuel to 
what appears to have been a delicate situation. Whilst I dont underestimate the distress 
Santanders error has caused, particularly as this has escalated in a serious way. I cant 
fairly hold Santander responsible for the distress caused by the dispute itself. Taking 
account of the impact overall, I think £850 reflects the seriousness of the situation and 
recognises the substantial distress the error caused.
I know that Miss B has had out of pocket expenses in relation to solicitors costs which she 
feels is a result of Santanders error. I dont doubt the statements have supported the third 
partys cause. However, from what Ive seen Im not persuaded the police interview was 
solely as a result of Santanders error. And its possible the interview wouldve taken place 
with or without the statements if an allegation was made. Given this I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to ask Santander to cover the solicitors fees.
Based on this, I think the apology along with £850 compensation is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Miss B £850 in total, taking account of 
anything they may have already paid, for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman