DRN-3253032
The complaint
X, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed a former director 
access to its bank account online.
What happened
X says that the former director ceased her appointment in 2004. And that in January 2021 
she contacted X to say that she had been able to view the account online. She has also 
provided a statement saying she was asked by Barclays why she didnt use the money in 
this account rather than release personal funds from savings. X is unhappy at the breach of 
security and that its money was at risk.
Barclays said it had offered to pay X a total of £200 for the security breach. The previous 
director also had personal current accounts with the remaining current director of X. And in 
2004 she was removed from these in branch. She couldnt have been removed from the 
company account unless X had contacted its business banking team centrally. Barclays 
accepted that X wasnt told to do so and apologised for this. It seems a new online profile 
had been created for the former director and this allowed her to view Xs account. Barclays 
said she was never on the account signing mandate and couldnt have withdrawn money. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays do anything more. He said that he 
recognised the inconvenience caused to X and the time the director had spent on Xs behalf 
dealing with this. But he said that as X is a separate legal entity that couldnt suffer distress 
we couldnt take into account what the director had said about the personal stress for him. 
Our investigator also said we were looking at what had actually happened and not what 
might have. He didnt think anything further was appropriate.
X didnt agree. The director said that the fact that no money was actually removed is 
irrelevant  the former director was offered it. He has an amicable relationship with her now 
and so it wasnt known if she could have taken the money if shed tried to. He said that the 
breach of data protection legislation is a criminal offence and X should be eligible for up to 
£2,000 compensation. He took exception to his personal hurt feelings and considerable 
stress not being taken into account. The £200 includes what he said was £50 for a delay in 
looking into things and is no different to what Barclays offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide informal dispute resolution and if X doesnt accept my decision it remains free to 
pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits. Im looking here at the impact on X 
and not the director personally  even if he could establish that any personal data relating to 
him had been breached. It seems here that the company account for X was the information 
that was viewed, and it is clear that Barclays accepts that this was in error.
I dont see a basis to think that X has suffered a financial loss as a result. And we wouldnt 
look at what could have happened only what actually did. Barclays accepts too that the 
former director would have had no authority to transfer money. It also says that she 
physically couldnt have done so, even though I note from her written statement that she got 
the impression that this would have been possible. I dont see that her viewing the balance 
caused any damage to X in this case. All the evidence is that she acted promptly, reported 
the error, and told X about it so that it could be rectified.
This clearly caused inconvenience to X and arises from a mistake which as X says wasnt 
identified even when it went through the process of changing its name some four years 
earlier. I know the director of X had to call Barclays to resolve this. And has been unhappy at 
the way Barclays has assessed the impact.
I appreciate what the director says about feeling stressed and upset. But the position is that I 
cant look at that in a complaint from X, the customer here, and which is as our investigator 
says a separate legal entity. So, I need to think about the inconvenience to X and everything 
that happened and whether the offer from Barclays is reasonable. I know the director will be 
disappointed when I say I that I think it is and I wont be asking Barclays to do anything 
more.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to settle the complaint which I consider is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay X £200 as it has 
offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman