DRN-2257163
The complaint
Mr S complains that Toyota Financial Services (UK) plc declined his application for credit. 
Mr S is being helped with his complaint by his father.
What happened
Mr S applied to Toyota Financial Services for a new car to the supplied to him on credit. His 
application was approved and the dealer made modifications to the car as requested by Mr 
S. Mr Ss father signed the documentation required by Toyota Financial Services under a 
Court of Protection order. Toyota Financial Services then rejected Mr Ss application. 
Mr Ss father complained to Toyota Financial Services and it said that, after in-depth checks 
on the application, its underwriters overturned the initial acceptance and declined the 
proposal. It said that it wasnt able to go into more depth as to the reasoning behind the 
decision to decline but it confirmed that the finance was not declined due to Mr Ss father 
signing the finance as the appointed deputy nor due to Mr Ss condition. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think that Toyota Financial Services had treated Mr S fairly as it shouldnt have considered 
information for any other parties as Mr S was the sole applicant on the finance application 
and the Court of Protection order was set up for Mr Ss father to sign on Mr Ss behalf. The 
application was pre-approved based on the information provided for Mr S and submitting the 
Court of Protection order didnt change anything on the application as Mr S was still the sole 
applicant for the finance application. He recommended that Toyota Financial Services 
should pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Toyota Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
Mr Ss application was auto approved due to an error and very limited application 
data being loaded;
Mr Ss application was declined as he did not meet its lending criteria and it shouldnt 
disregard responsible lending and any concerns it may hold regarding affordability 
and its asset;
the fact that Mr S was unable to sign the documents played no part in its decision; 
and
it has the right, as a lender, to decline finance to any customer that does not meet its 
lending criteria.
Mr Ss father says that the order allows him to make financial decisions and sign on Mr Ss 
behalf, Toyota Financial Services accepted the proposal and subsequently declined shortly 
before he was due to collect the car and £500 is a more appropriate compensation amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ss application for credit was approved and on that basis the dealer made 
modifications to the car that was going to be supplied to Mr S;
after Mr Ss father signed the required documentation the application was rejected;
Mr Ss father was signing the documentation on behalf of Mr S under a Court of 
Protection order so the application was being made by Mr S and there was no reason 
for Toyota Financial Services to make any checks about anyone other than Mr S;
I consider it to be more likely than not that Toyota Financial Services rejected Mr Ss 
application as a result of checks that it made but for which there was no reason for it 
to make;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Toyota Financial 
Services acted fairly and reasonably when it declined Mr Ss application for credit;
Mr S had been approved for credit, hed chosen the car that was to be supplied to 
him and the dealer had started modifying the car  so I consider that he had a 
reasonable expectation that the car would be supplied to him and Toyota Financial 
Services rejection of his application has caused him distress and inconvenience; and
I consider that £250 is fair and reasonable compensation for that distress and 
inconvenience and Im not persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified 
in these circumstances or that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Toyota 
Financial Services to pay £500 compensation to Mr S.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Toyota Financial 
Services to pay £250 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that 
hes been caused.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order Toyota Financial Services (UK) plc 
to pay him £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been 
caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman