DRN-4050843
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the service received from Nationwide Building Society when dealing 
with an Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mrs K requested two transfers into her Nationwide ISA however this wasnt possible due to 
the type of account. 
Nationwide apologised for this and offered £150 for the inconvenience caused as they didnt 
write to Mrs K as they should have done to say the transfer requests had been rejected. This 
meant that Mrs K had to make proactive contact for an update after waiting over a week 
without hearing anything. Nationwide also offered to cover any lost interest due to what 
happened and asked Mrs K to provide proof of any loss so they could investigate. 
Mrs K wasnt happy with the offer so brought her complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the offer was fair but Mrs K 
disagreed saying she had to do all the chasing and the amount didnt cover the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. Ive summarised some of what happened which reflects the 
informal nature of our service. But I want to assure Mrs K that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided. 
All parties agree that Nationwide didnt provide the level of service they should have done. 
So my role isnt to look at why or how the problem occurred, but to consider the impact of 
what happened and see if I think the offer made to put things right is fair.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the offer of £150 is a fair 
way of resolving the complaint. This is alongside the offer to investigate any lost interest 
should Mrs K provide evidence of any loss.
Mrs K waited for around nine days after requesting the transfers before contacting 
Nationwide for an update to be told that the requests had been rejected and a letter saying 
this shouldve been sent. Nationwide apologised for this and called back the next day to fully 
explain the situation.  
When dealing with our Investigator Mrs K said that she had to do all the chasing, which is 
correct. Nationwide have apologised for this and for not sending a letter. But when Mrs K did 
make contact the issue was resolved quickly and the error was recognised. So taking all of 
this into account I think the offer of £150 is fair. 
Nationwide have also said they will investigate any financial loss if Mrs K provides proof. I 
think this is fair and what I would expect Nationwide to do. I think asking for proof is a 
reasonable request in these circumstances.  
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs K £150 for the inconvenience of what 
happened.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint 
and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs K £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman