DRN-3579577
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Arrow Global Limited unfairly obtained a County Court Judgement 
(CCJ) in her name. 
What happened
Arrow says it acquired a defaulted credit card debt in Mrs Hs name in 2011. Mrs H made 
regular payments to Arrows agents, M, for several years. In May 2012 Mrs H updated her 
address with M. But in 2019 M contacted Mrs H and explained it had returned the account to 
Arrow. 
Arrow then instructed a firm of solicitors to collect the debt from Mrs H and it ultimately 
obtained a CCJ in her name. Mrs H has told us she found the CCJ when checking her credit 
file so contacted M and Arrow to complain. 
Arrow sent Mrs H a final response on 8 December 2021. Arrow said M had failed to pass on 
Mrs Hs updated address when the account was returned. As a result, follow up collections 
activity and associated court correspondence wasnt sent to Mrs Hs current address. Arrow 
arranged for the CCJ to be removed but didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Hs complaint and upheld it. They asked Arrow 
to pay Mrs H £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions. Despite 
several attempts to get a response, Arrow didnt confirm whether it accepted or not. As 
Arrow didnt respond, Mrs Hs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrow has confirmed its agents, M, updated Mrs Hs address back in 2012 but failed to pass 
the new details on when the account was returned. As a result, when legal action was taken 
the pre claim documents were sent to the wrong place. And that meant Mrs H was unaware 
of Arrows intention to take the matter to court. Im please Arrow has taken action to reflect 
the error M made and arranged for the CCJ to be removed. That means, Mrs H is broadly 
back in the position she shouldve been in. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint and directed Arrow to pay her £150 in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenienc caused. I can see the investigator sent emails to Arrow 
chasing a response. And I can also see weve sent Arrow confirmation that the case has 
been referred for an ombudsmans decision because it didnt get back to us. The investigator 
issued their view of Mrs Hs complaint in mid May 2022, more than two months ago. Im 
satisfied Arrow has had reasonable opportunity to respond. 
In the absence of a response or new information from Arrow, Im going to uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. Im satisfied errors by Arrows agent meant Mrs Hs address wasnt updated. And, 
Im satisfied that had a direct impact on the following legal action Arrow took. I can see the 
situation has caused Mrs H some distress and inconvenience. So Im going to uphold this 
complaint and tell Arrow to pay Mrs H £150. In my view, that figure fairly reflects how the 
issues raised have affected Mrs H. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to pay her 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman