DRN-2658002
The complaint
Miss D complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA wouldnt refund a payment she says 
was obtained from her fraudulently.
What happened
Miss D ordered goods for £42.27 online and paid for them using her PayPal account. She 
raised a dispute when they werent received and updated this on delivery of the goods to say 
that the goods were significantly not as described (SNAD). She says she found out that the 
goods hadnt come from a business in this country as she had been led to believe. She 
thought they were of poor quality. Miss D didnt think she should have to return them to get a 
refund.
PayPal said that it wouldnt be providing a refund. Under the terms of its Buyer Protection it 
could require Miss D to return the goods to the seller and to provide proof she had done so. 
It didnt think it reasonable that Miss D should both receive a refund and retain the goods.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. This was a dispute raised 
through PayPal and not through the operator of her payment card account. So, he referred 
to the relevant terms of Buyer Protection under the agreement PayPal had with Miss D. 
PayPal hadnt made a mistake in requiring Miss D to return the goods. She had explained 
that this would have cost her £18 and the maximum she could have claimed for shipping 
costs was £15. This was unfortunate but he thought she was still required to return them. 
Miss D didnt agree and said that we had sided with PayPal, a big company. She had 
contacted the seller several times. And she had seen that there had been multiple other 
complaints about the it. She wanted her complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Miss D received goods that she considered were SNAD and didnt 
realise that these were coming from outside of this country. While she has said that this was 
a fraudulent payment I consider that she consented to it and so authorised it. So, Im afraid it 
cant be treated as an unauthorised payment from her account and refunded for that reason.
I make clear here that I am considering only what PayPal did. I think Miss D was fairly bound 
by the terms and conditions of its agreement with her when she used its service.
PayPal isnt responsible for what the online seller might had said or indicated to Miss D 
when she ordered the goods. But when Miss D raised a dispute PayPal was responsible for 
dealing with it under the terms of its Buyer Protection.
Under these terms it may require as it states:
the buyer to post back to the payment recipient, to PayPal or to a third party (as
PayPal may direct) an item that the buyer claims is SNAD and to provide Proof of
Delivery. Please take reasonable precautions in re-packing the item to reduce the
risk of damage to the item during transit.
I need to think about whether PayPal applied this condition reasonably. Miss D has 
explained that she would have been slightly out of pocket had she returned the goods as 
required. The merchant was responsible for any misunderstanding about where the goods 
were coming from. And that may not have made any difference to the purchase for Miss D in 
the first place provided the goods were as described. Here I dont think it was 
disproportionate for PayPal to require Miss D to return the goods to the seller rather than say 
as allowed for in the terms to itself.
I appreciate the principle at stake here for Miss D but Im afraid I dont think it was 
unreasonable to expect her to act to mitigate her loss here and return the goods as PayPal 
had requested. I know she will be disappointed by my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman