DRN-3661588
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank PLC failed to process a chargeback in adequate time.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Barclays, its administered by Visa and they 
set the rules. Barclays didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice 
for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
The VISA chargeback rules say that claims must be submitted within 120 days from the date 
the service was to be provided but must not exceed 540 days from the transaction 
processing date. The 540 days is to allow for services that are to be provided at a future date 
such as concerts or holidays. But the chargeback has to be raised within 120 days from 
when the goods or service was provided.
Mr D says he first submitted a chargeback request in September 2020 but theres no record 
of that in Barclays system notes and Mr D hasnt been able to provide supporting evidence. 
Im therefore persuaded that Mr D made his chargeback request on 9 October 2020 as thats 
the date confirmed on Barclays system
The chargeback form Mr D submitted says that the goods were received on 4 June 2020 
and if that was the case, by the time Mr D submitted his chargeback claim Barclays were out 
of time to lodge it with VISA as more than 120 days had expired.
Mr D has subsequently explained that the delivery date was 24 June 2020 but hes not 
provided any corroborating evidence of that, and Im therefore persuaded the date the 
service (the goods) was provided was 4 June 2020 and that Barclays were therefore not 
able to process the chargeback as it was out of time.
And, even if the delivery date was 24 June 2020 I dont think it would be fair to suggest 
Barclays have done anything wrong. They didnt have to submit a chargeback request as its 
a voluntary scheme, and if Mr D had recorded the delivery date incorrectly on the 
chargeback form that was a date Barclays could be expected to rely on. As there would have 
been a processing delay before Mr D could be advised his initial claim was out of time, it 
wouldnt be possible to raise a revised claim as that too would have then been made outside 
of the 120 limit. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman