DRN-3557286
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage she held with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. She is unhappy about the information and service she received during the process of 
re-mortgaging the property. This includes being told that she could stop her mortgage 
payments, and the subsequent communications from Barclays about the account being in 
arrears. Throughout this process Mrs C was being charged interest at Barclays standard 
variable rate (SVR), which she has said cost her an extra £380 per month and she would like 
that amount reimbursed.
What happened
In the spring of 2021 the fixed interest rate product on Mrs Cs BTL mortgage ended. At that 
time, she has told us that she was deciding whether to sell the property and so allowed the 
mortgage to move to SVR. Shortly thereafter she decided to keep the property, but to 
re-mortgage to a different lender. Her mortgage application was accepted by the new lender 
in July 2021 and solicitors (E) were appointed by the new lender to deal with the 
re-mortgage. 
Mrs C called Barclays on 2 August 2021 about stopping the contractual mortgage payment 
(CMP) that was due for that month, as she was expecting the re-mortgage to complete 
imminently. It was confirmed that the payment was due the following day and it would 
already be in the process of being collected. She was told that if the re-mortgage was 
definitely completing within the next day or two, she could do one of two things. The first was 
to ask Barclays for a refund, but that would take a few days. Alternatively, she could contact 
her paying bank before 3pm the following day to ask it to call the payment back. Barclays 
explained that if she wanted to take the latter option, she shouldnt cancel the direct debit 
mandate, as that would mean the recall couldnt happen. Mrs C was advised, before doing 
anything about the CMP, to contact E to confirm the re-mortgage was going to complete. 
Mrs C has told us she then spoke to her paying bank and the direct debit mandate was 
cancelled, thereby stopping the CMP being collected. Barclays followed its normal 
procedures at this point and wrote to Mrs C about the missed payment and asked her to pay 
it. It also warned her that missing payments could be reported to credit reference agencies. 
Mrs C paid the CMP that day and again informed Barclays that completion of the 
re-mortgage was imminent. The same process happened for the following months until the 
mortgage was repaid in October 2021.
Barclays was asked for a redemption statement on 8 September 2021. Barclays confirmed 
that there was a five working day service level for providing statements, but it was not until 
21 September 2021 that the statement was produced. This was then sent to Mrs Cs 
address, rather than to the solicitors. She forwarded it to the solicitors two days later.
However, when Mrs C called Barclays to enquire about the redemption statement on 20 
September 2021, she was incorrectly told that the statement had been sent on the day it was 
requested. Mrs C has told us that this resulted in her chasing E that day and a further call to 
Barclays about the matter the following day in which she also lodged a complaint. It was 
during that process that Mrs C was told the redemption statement hadnt been sent out on 
8 September 2021, as shed been told.
Barclays sent Mrs C a letter on 22 September 2021 regarding the complaint. It said that it 
hadnt found any errors on its part and so was closing the complaint as not upheld. It 
confirmed that while the mortgage was active, Mrs C was required to make the monthly 
mortgage payments on the third of each month. It said it had told Mrs C not to cancel the 
direct debit mandate. It said that because of this, it wouldnt be changing any entries it had 
made on her credit file regarding the late/missed payments for August and September 2021. 
The letter also incorrectly stated that the request for a redemption statement hadnt been 
received until 21 September 2021.
Further redemption statements were sent on 22 September, 30 September and 5 October 
2021, all directly to the solicitors. Barclays have provided copies of the letters sent. The 
re-mortgage completed on 13 October 2021.
Mrs C was unhappy with Barclays response, and she referred it to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld in 
part. That being that Mrs C was given incorrect information about a redemption statement 
having been issued. This caused her to chase the other parties involved in the re-mortgage 
unnecessarily. He also concluded that there was a delay in the first redemption statement 
being issued, as it took Barclays two weeks to do so. However, he wasnt persuaded this 
had a detrimental effect on the re-mortgage process, as further redemption statements were 
later requested. The investigator recommended Barclays pay Mrs C £100 for the upset and 
inconvenience the poor service caused.
Barclays accepted the investigators opinion about the complaint. Mrs C didnt. She said that 
the £100 compensation was paltry and fell short given the extreme stress she was caused 
by Barclays continually threatening her when it was clearly at fault. She asked that Barclays 
remove any markers it had placed on her credit file because of the issues with the CMP 
during the re-mortgage process. 
The investigator confirmed that Barclays was not responsible for the direct debit being 
cancelled. As such, it hadnt done anything wrong when chasing for the CMP to be paid and 
registering what had happened with credit reference agencies. He also confirmed that while 
there had been a delay in the first redemption statement being issued, given that three more 
were requested and the mortgage wasnt redeemed for several more weeks, that short delay 
didnt appear to have affected the re-mortgage process. 
Mrs C remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions and so it was decided that the 
complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Before commenting on the merits of this complaint, I would confirm that I am only able to 
comment on Barclays actions and/or omissions in relation to the re-mortgage Mrs C 
arranged. I am unable to comment in this decision on the actions of the other lender or E.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also explain at this stage that an existing lender, in this case Barclays, has little to do 
with the progress of a re-mortgage to another lender. Its sole role is to provide information 
when asked for it; usually only information about the amount needed to repay the mortgage in the form of a redemption statement. The remainder of the process is controlled by the new 
lender and the appointed solicitors. That is the basis that I will be considering the complaint. 
Mrs C has complained that Barclays delayed the re-mortgage process, thereby keeping her 
on its SVR and profiting from that. I cant agree with her. As I have said, almost the whole 
re mortgage process is controlled by the new mortgage lender and the solicitor it has 
appointed to complete the legal aspects of the work. So I would only be able to find Barclays 
responsible for any additional interest Mrs C paid if it delayed in its part of the process and 
that led to a delay in the overall processing of the re-mortgage. 
Barclays received the first request for a redemption statement on 8 September 2021. It told 
the solicitors that its normal service standard was five working days, given the situation with 
the payment of the CMP that had been going on since the previous month. Barclays was 
four working days late in processing the request. As the statement was sent via the post, it 
would usually have been deemed to be received on the following day, but because Barclays 
sent the statement to Mrs C, the solicitors didnt receive the statement until the day after 
that. As such, the delay caused by Barclays meant that the solicitors received the 
information they requested five working days/seven calendar days later than it would 
otherwise have, had Barclays met its service standard. 
I have, therefore, considered whether this delay resulted in the re-mortgage completing later 
than it otherwise would have. A further redemption statement was requested and sent on 
22 September 2021, which reasonably could be considered a chaser for the original one 
given what Mrs C has told us about the interactions she had E. However, two further 
redemptions statements were requested over the following weeks. That would indicate that 
when the original redemption statement was received by the solicitors on 23 September 
2021 it was not in a position to complete the re-mortgage. As such, I am not persuaded that 
Barclays caused any delay in the overall re-mortgage process and so I cant ask it to 
compensate Mrs C for any interest she incurred.
That said, I do think that the incorrect information Barclays initially gave Mrs C, and the 
additional efforts this cause her, would have added to the stress the re-mortgage process 
was already causing her. I consider that Barclays should compensate her, and while I know 
that Mrs C wont be satisfied with the amount, I agree with our investigator that £100 is the 
appropriate amount.
In relation to the matter of the mortgage payments, I again dont think Barclays did anything 
wrong. I have listened to the telephone call in which Mrs C says she was told to cancel the 
direct debit mandate, but that isnt the case. I wont detail what was said again here, as I 
have put it in the background above. While cancelling the direct debit mandate was 
mentioned, Mrs C was told this was not the best way of dealing with getting her money back, 
if the mortgage completed the following day. Indeed, she was told cancelling it would prevent 
her bank from calling the payment back, which was the quicker way of returning the money 
to her. It was made clear to Mrs C that she needed to check that the re-mortgage would 
definitely go through before she took any action. 
In light of this, I cant find Barclays responsible for the direct debit mandate being cancelled 
and the CMPs not being paid when they should have been. Given that the payments werent 
being paid on time, it was not unreasonable for Barclays to contact Mrs C about the missing 
payments. When doing so, Barclays was right to tell Mrs C about the potential 
consequences of not making the payments  it being reported on her credit file  so that she 
could make an informed decision about whether to make the payments. While I 
acknowledge that Mrs C found these letters upsetting, Barclays was right to send them and 
keep her informed about the status of her mortgage account.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs C £100 compensation for the 
additional upset and inconvenience it caused her by giving her incorrect information in 
September 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman