DRN-2914996
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about their insurer, Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco). Their 
complaint relates to the rejection of a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to 
a wall at their property in bad weather.
 
Tesco use agents to administer the policy and assess claims. References to Tesco includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2020, on the date of Storm Ciara, a garden wall at Mr and Mrs Ds property blew 
over in high winds. Mr and Mrs D contacted Tesco to lodge a claim for the damage to the 
wall. Tesco appointed P to deal with the claim, who in turn sent a surveyor (S) to assess the 
damage. P rejected Mr and Mrs Ds claim on the grounds that the mortar holding the wall 
together had de-bonded from the bricks and this was a result of wear and tear (which was 
an exclusion under the terms of the policy).
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy at their claim being declined and complained to Tesco. They 
also said that they had a surveyors report from 2006 that showed the wall to be in good 
order at the time. Tesco didnt uphold their complaint, saying that while there was no dispute 
that there were high winds on the date of the incident, they highlighted a wear and tear issue 
with the wall. Tesco said that photographs of the damaged wall showed that many bricks 
had separated when they fell, which shouldnt have happened had the mortar holding the 
bricks together had been in good standing. Consequently, the wall should have been able to 
withstand the high winds and shouldnt have fallen.
Mr and Mrs D then complained to this service. The main elements of the complaint were that 
the wall was standing the day before the incident and that Storm Ciara was obviously the 
cause of the collapse. Mr and Mrs D maintained that the wall was physically and visually 
sound, and that the mortar became separated from the bricks after the wall fell. Mr and Mrs 
D added that the wall had been rebuilt at a cost of just over £3,500  which they felt should 
have been met by Tesco under the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that there were storm conditions 
at the time of the incident, and that the damage to the wall was typical of that expected in a 
storm. But the investigator also concluded that he wouldnt expect a wall to collapse in the 
way that photographs of the damage indicated. The wall had to have weakened over time 
and that Storm Ciara had highlighted the walls weakness.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. Mr and Mrs D said that they continued to dispute that the wall fell over 
due to wear and tear, maintaining that the storm had caused the wall to fall over. There was 
no reason to believe that the wall was weakened or otherwise in a bad condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Tesco has acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs D.
The main element of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is that Tesco shouldnt have rejected their 
claim for damage to their wall. And that the damage was caused by Storm Ciara and there 
wasnt any indication of weakness or wear and tear affecting the wall prior to the incident.
On the main element of the complaint, Ive looked at the three key questions we consider in 
complaints involving damage caused by storms:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, Tesco havent disputed that there were high winds on the date of the 
incident. Ive also looked at the information on weather conditions from the weather reports 
that we use as a service. While the nearest weather station is about 10 miles from Mr and 
Mrs Ds property, the data indicate there were storm conditions on the date of the incident. 
So Ive concluded that the answer to the first question is yes.
On the second question, Ive looked at the evidence from Mr and Mrs D, including 
photographs of the damaged wall. From the photographs I can see that a significant part of 
the wall has fallen over and is lying on the ground. The nature of the damage is consistent 
with that we would expect to see in a storm, where there are high winds. So Ive concluded 
that the answer to the second question is also yes.
On the third question, Tesco said that they declined the claim because the separation of the 
bricks indicated a weakness in the wall and this wouldnt have occurred had the wall been 
sound. Ive looked carefully at the photographs and at the report from S, which states:
the whole length of wall has fallen over, on closer inspection of the debris we can 
see that the mortar has completely de-bonded from virtually all of the bricks in lines 
and none of it is adhered togetherthis would indicate the wall was in a poor 
condition prior to collapse as it has fallen on extremely soft forums which would not 
have caused the de-bonding to occur. It is therefore our considered opinion the 
weather has merely highlighted the age/wear and tear element of the wall as 
opposed to being the proximate cause.
Im persuaded that, on the balance of probabilities, this is the case. I think the extent of 
separation is significant and isnt likely to have been the result of the impact of the wall falling 
onto the ground (particularly as the ground was grass).
 
Mr and Mrs D have said that they engaged a builder to rebuild the wall and that he stated 
that the mortar was not in a bad condition. Ive considered this point, but on balance Im not 
persuaded, given Cs conclusion above and the nature and extent of the damage.
Mr and Mrs D have also raised a point about the wording of one of the policy terms and 
conditions that, under a heading of General exclusions that apply to your policy, it states:
You are not covered for:
Loss or damage that would not have arisen if there had not been a failure to deal with 
existing damage that would have been noticeable, you were aware of and/or where 
there has been an unreasonable delay in starting to deal with the damage.Mr and Mrs D have said that they werent aware of any damage to the wall before the 
incident. However, I dont think this condition would apply as the issue with the wall was (as 
Tesco maintains) its weakness - not noticeable or existing damage. I have noted that the 
same General exclusions section states that We will not pay for:
Costs associated with general maintenancesuch as defective rendering
As its accepted that the damage to the wall occurred during storm conditions, Ive also 
looked at the specific conditions in the buildings cover section of the policy where (under the 
heading Storm or flood and What is not covered) it states:
5. Loss or damage:
That does not arise from one identifiable incident which directly and 
immediately caused the loss of damage
Given my conclusion that the storm wasnt the main or dominant cause of the damage, then 
Ive concluded that it also didnt directly and immediately cause the damage. The storm 
highlighted pre-existing issues rather than being the main (or dominant) cause of the 
damage.
 
Mr and Mrs D also point to a 2006 surveyor report that they say showed the wall to be in 
good order at that time. Ive not seen the report, but as it was some 14 years before the 
incident, I dont think it provides persuasive evidence about the wall at the time of the 
incident.
Taking all these points, Ive concluded that, on the balance of probabilities, the storm wasnt 
the main (or dominant) cause of the damage. And that pre-existing issues are likely to have 
been the cause. As such, it was reasonable for Tesco to decline Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman