DRN-3328914
The complaint
Ms G complained about Chubb European Group SE. She isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with her claim under her mobile phone insurance policy and that she was charged an 
excess.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Chubb are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Ms G made a claim under her mobile phone insurance policy. Chubb looked into the claim 
and provided her with a replacement phone. Although Ms G was happy with her new phone 
she didnt think she should pay a policy excess. 
Ms G said she didnt realise that she had an insurance policy with Chubb and just thought 
she was getting a new phone from her phone company. Ms G also said she wasnt told she 
would have to pay an excess during the claim process.
When Ms G complained to this service our investigator looked into things for her but didnt 
uphold her complaint. She was satisfied that Ms G was made aware she had an insurance 
contract in place for her mobile phone. And that she was clearly made aware an excess was 
due under the policy during the calls when she made the claim.
As Ms G didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms G, but Ill explain why.
I can understand why Ms G doesnt want to pay her excess as she feels her phone should 
have just been replaced by her phone provider  as her phone wasnt charging properly. But 
it is also clear that the phone was damaged which is why a claim was made under her 
policy.
I know Ms G says she wasnt aware that she was making a claim under her insurance policy, 
or that she even had a mobile phone insurance policy. But as our investigator has explained 
Chubb wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy and any complaint about this would have 
to be advanced against the seller of the policy. 
However, Ms G was paying a premium for the policy and was sent the policy documentation 
so I think she should have been aware she had insurance for her mobile phone. Indeed, 
when this claim was advanced and Ms G discussed her difficulties with the phone, including 
the screen damage, she was advised that a claim could be made under her mobile phone 
insurance policy. Ive listened to the call and the claim handler made it clear to Ms G that she 
was making an insurance claim in relation to accidental damage to her phone. And it was 
made clear to Ms G during the claim process, on more than one occasion, that an excess 
payment was due.
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Ms G finds herself in now, 
in being pursued for the outstanding amount, I cant say Chubb has acted unfairly in asking 
for the excess due under the policy. I say this as Im satisfied it was clear that Ms G  was 
making an insurance claim as her phone was damaged and that an excess payment was 
due. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman