DRN-4413462
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the way Moneybarn No.1 Ltd dealt with him when he requested 
a settlement figure for a conditional sale agreement he had with it. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties. I wont go over everything 
again in detail. But, in summary, Mr L entered into a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn to acquire a car in 2022. He requested a settlement figure on 6 January 2023. 
Moneybarn said he owed £23,064.29 and that this was valid until 3 February 2023. 
Mr L said he made a monthly payment of £702.98 which Moneybarn received on 10 January 
2023. He wanted to sell the car to a dealer so he contacted Moneybarn on 19 January 2023 
and asked for another early settlement figure, that would have taken into account of the 
payment hes made. The agent told him the original settlement figure was still valid and that 
he could subtract the payment hed made from that figure. The agent explained he could 
take off the monthly payment (£702.98) from the earlier settlement figure (£23,064.29) to 
reach the amount hed need to pay - £22,361.31.
Mr L called back the next day because hed not received an email setting out what was left 
to pay. He said the dealer could only pay the exact amount that was on a letter. Moneybarn 
said it would need to put a request through, but Mr L was unhappy because he needed it 
straight away. Moneybarn said it wasnt able to generate a new one. Mr L wanted to be put 
through to a manager. One wasnt available so Mr L asked for an email to be sent setting out 
what was left owing. He wanted Moneybarn to set out it was unable to generate a new early 
settlement figure, but it should confirm what was outstanding. During the phone call, 
Moneybarn said it had been able to generate an early settlement figure and sent it to Mr L. 
It looks like the dealer paid the new settlement figure  £22,592.16. Mr L raised a complaint 
because by generating a new figure, he lost out on around £230. 
Moneybarn responded to say the settlement figure he received was correct at that time. Mr L 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator looked into things and said one of the calls could have been handled better. 
She said Moneybarn should pay Mr L £100. Moneybarn agreed, but Mr L didnt. Mr L said he 
didnt request a new settlement figure, and one shouldnt have been generated. He says he 
wants Moneybarn to pay him the amount hes lost out on. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Mr L has complained about the way Moneybarn administered a conditional sale agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
The problem with generating a new settlement figure in this case is that due to the extra 
days the agreement had been open for  it was always going to be for a higher amount than 
what was owed in relation to the previous settlement figure (after taking into account the 
monthly payment). 
Moneybarn initially told Mr L a few times it couldnt generate a new settlement figure while 
the one from 6 January 2023 was active. It was going to send Mr L an email to confirm what 
was outstanding. But during the call, it managed to generate a new settlement figure. I can 
understand why the conflicting information would have been frustrating for Mr L. He would 
have been better off had Moneybarn simply sent the email it was writing for him. But to be 
fair to Moneybarn, Mr L had asked for an updated settlement figure. And he was quite 
insistent he needed something straight away. 
Our investigator recommended £100 compensation for the way the calls were handled. I 
agree they could have gone better. But I think Moneybarn were ultimately trying to help Mr L. 
Mr L has shown us he had to make payment to the dealer to clear the shortfall. It looks like 
he was selling the car for £20,750 but he owed more than this to Moneybarn. With the newly 
generated settlement figure, Mr L had to pay £230.85 more than he would have done had 
Moneybarn simply sent him the email it was putting together. 
On the one hand, Mr L was insistent he wanted a new early settlement figure. But what I 
think he meant was that he wanted Moneybarn to confirm in writing what he owed in relation 
to the original settlement figure, less his monthly payment. It was clear what he was 
intending to do. And Im conscious Moneybarn is the expert here. It could have simply told 
him that the settlement figures are valid for a month and that if it generated another one it 
would cost more to Mr L. If it had made this a bit clearer or simply offered to send a 
confirmation email for him, I imagine the issues would have been avoided. 
Therefore, Im proposing Moneybarn also reimburses Mr L the difference in what hes had to 
pay. This is £230.85 in total. I think Moneybarn has paid Mr L £100 already. So I think it 
should also pay him an extra £130.85. Ive thought about whether it should add 
compensation on top of this. But I think given Mr L was insistent about getting an early 
settlement figure, he was demanding things were done straight away, and Moneybarn was 
trying to help him Im not proposing it does this. I appreciate the second settlement figure 
was technically right, but I think putting Mr L back in the position he would have been in had 
he been given the information he sought straight away is broadly a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. 
Moneybarn accepted the provisional decision. Mr L was broadly happy. But he said he 
wasnt happy with how he was dealt with on the phone. He highlighted it had taken time to 
resolve things and caused him difficulties at the time. So he requested compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank the parties for their responses. I take on board Mr L would like compensation, 
but Im not going to award it on top of what Ive already recommended, for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision. I appreciate there were things on the calls that could have 
gone better. Mr L was very insistent he wanted a settlement figure straight away. He put the 
call handlers under pressure to do it while he was on the phone. They were ultimately trying 
to help him. The settlement figure he ended up receiving was technically correct as of that 
date. But Ive explained why, in the round, I think the fairest outcome is for Mr L to be put 
back in the position he would have been in had he been given details in writing of the original 
settlement figure, less the payment hed made.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and, to the extent its not done so already, 
direct Moneybarn No.1 Ltd to reimburse Mr L £230.85. It can offset anything its already 
paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman