DRN-2135701
The complaint
Mr R says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr R took out PPI in 1993 to protect his mortgage repayments, neither party can confirm 
where the sale took place. The mortgage package Mr R selected gave him free PPI for 
the first 12 months. This provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover. He paid 
a monthly amount for it after the first 12 months. He also paid a monthly amount for 
some additional cover from the start of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Based on what Ive seen Im upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if the policy was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for him. Based on what Ive seen I dont think Nationwide did this.
I say this because the PPI had a 90-day waiting period  meaning Mr R couldnt make a 
claim if he was unemployed or too sick to work for the first three months. Then, upon a 
successful claim, the benefit wouldve been backdated to the 61st day. So, if Mr R was 
off work for 89 days no benefit wouldve been due at all.
Nationwide says that as part of its sales process Mr R wouldve been told about the main 
policy features and also been given a PPI leaflet which included information about the 90-
day waiting period. A leaflet that would only take a few minutes to read in full and that 
mentioned the 90-day waiting period twice. I dont have a recording or any notes from this 
sale so I cant comment on what may or may not have been said. And I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr R actually received a leaflet of this kind, but I accept its possible he did. 
So, Ive looked at the leaflet Nationwide says wouldve been provided, but Im still not 
satisfied the information about the 90-day waiting period was sufficiently prominent to draw 
Mr Rs attention to this term.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr R because he would only have received statutory sick 
pay, and he didnt have any other means to use to make his repayments in the short-term. 
So, I think if Mr R was unable to work, he wouldve struggled to keep up his mortgage 
repayments for the initial three months before he was able to make a claim. And I think its 
more likely than not that he wouldve wanted and expected to be able to make a claim on 
the PPI policy much sooner than 90 days as he had such limited other means of making his 
repayments.
So, I dont think Mr R wouldve bought the policy if Nationwide had made clear this 
information about the policy and I think Mr R has lost out because of what Nationwide did 
wrong.
Ive taken into account Nationwides comments including what its said about the arrears 
management measures it would have offered Mr R if he was struggling to make his 
repayments during the 90-day waiting period (as it did when the need arose). But he would 
not have known that when taking out the policy. And these measures are informal and are 
at the discretion of Nationwide, so there was no guarantee that this type of help wouldve 
always been offered when Mr R may have needed it.
Ive also thought about what Nationwide has said about this PPI policy being included free 
of charge for 12 months as part of the overall mortgage package Mr R chose, so it was not 
an option for him not to take the policy out. And Ive considered its request that we evidence 
he could have secured a similarly priced mortgage elsewhere. But I disagree I need to do 
this. I say this as I have concluded that Mr R was mis-sold the PPI as he wasnt fully 
informed about the 90-day waiting period - and that mattered to him as he had limited other 
means if he wasnt working. I think its most likely that armed with better information he 
would have shopped around and opted to take out a different PPI policy with a shorter 
waiting period rather than rely on the (initially) free cover he was getting with his mortgage.  
As Mr R was lacking clear and complete information on how this policy worked, but relying 
on it for protection, he was exposed. Given his circumstances I think he would have made a 
different decision with better information.
So, I dont think the points raised by Nationwide make a difference to the outcome, and I 
still think this complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr R in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide should:
Pay Mr R the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
I understand Mr R is subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). And his 
Insolvency Practitioner (IP) may have an interest in any PPI refund he might receive. Mr R 
should bear in mind his obligations to his IP in respect of any redress he receives. A copy of 
this decision will be sent to his IP.
My final decision
My decision is I am upholding this complaint and Nationwide Building Society must put 
things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman