DRN-2906858
The complaint
Mr D has complained about legal costs added to his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage account by 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI). Mr D has been assisted in bringing his complaint by a 
friend, Ms C, but for clarity I will refer to Mr D throughout.
What happened
I will keep my summary of what happened brief, because the chronology of events is set out 
in detail in correspondence between the parties. What happened isnt really in dispute. The 
only issue is whether the bank has acted fairly in adding legal costs to Mr Ds mortgage 
account. Specific relevant events will be mentioned in more detail later in this decision.
In July 2008 Mr D took out a BTL re-mortgage of £75,000 with BOI on an interest-only basis 
over a ten-year term. The term of the mortgage was due to expire in July 2018. In January 
2018 Mr D asked the bank for a period of grace of 12 months to allow the property to be 
sold. There were complications due to a legal restriction giving a housing association a first 
option to purchase and Mr D wanted this resolved in court so the property could be sold on 
the open market. There was also a restriction on the property being sold to someone who 
had lived or worked in the area for at least 3 years.
The mortgage term expired on 31 July 2018. Thereafter, there were various attempts to sell 
the property, with Mr Ds solicitor telling BOI several times that exchange of contracts was 
imminent. But by September 2019 there was no progress in selling the property. BOI spoke 
to Mr Ds solicitor on 12 September 2019, who confirmed that she would be happy for BOI to 
begin legal action. A litigation warning letter was sent to Mr D the following day, which Mr D 
found very distressing.
In October 2019 a redemption statement was requested. By 19 November 2019 BOI had 
heard nothing further and instructed its solicitors. On 21 November 2019 another redemption 
statement was requested. In early December 2019 BOI was told the property was being 
entered into an auction on 6 December 2019.
The court issued the claim for possession on 22 January 2020, with a hearing date of 
26 February 2020.  The day before, 25 February 2020, BOI was told that contracts had been 
exchanged with a completion date of 10 March 2020. BOI had insufficient time to cancel the 
hearing, so attended court, with the claim being adjourned.
The mortgage was redeemed in full on 10 March 2020.
Mr D complained to BOI about the litigation costs of £1,084.60 added to the redemption 
statement. Mr D also said he is left with his own solicitors costs of £1,860 which he thinks 
BOI should reimburse. Mr D says his solicitor was going to take legal action against BOI to 
make the bank pay Mr Ds conveyancing fees and other legal costs, but she is no longer 
acting for him.
BOI didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter, BOI said it had granted 
forbearance based on Mr Ds health issues and assurances of pending sales of the property. 
But in any event, Mr Ds solicitor had confirmed she was happy for the bank to proceed with 
litigation. 
Mr D didnt accept what BOI said and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One 
of our investigators looked at what had happened, but he didnt think BOI had acted unfairly. 
He was satisfied that the bank had given Mr D sufficient time to sell the property, and that 
legal action had been taken as a last resort after several potential sales fell through. He 
didnt think the bank had been given enough notice to apply for an adjournment of the court 
hearing and so had to attend to request this. The investigator was satisfied the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage allowed BOI to recoup its legal costs from Mr D.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As stated above, I wont repeat all the details of what happened here. But I confirm Ive read 
the full history of what led to the complaint being brought  both from Mr Ds own accounts 
and from BOIs file. I note Mr D has been in poor health for a number of years, and I can see 
that this was taken account of by BOI.
Although this was a BTL mortgage, it appears Mr D, in breach of the mortgage conditions, 
was living in the property until about 2018. I see that BOIs notes say that on 14 December 
2018 the bank was told Mr D had moved out due to a neighbour dispute. But this mortgage 
was taken out on condition that the property was rented to tenants. As a commercial 
mortgage, it doesnt fall within the scope of mortgage regulation. What this means is that the 
forbearance lenders are required to show to residential mortgage borrowers do not apply to 
this type of mortgage, whether or not the borrower lives in the property. 
Once the mortgage reached the end of its term on 31 July 2018, BOI was legitimately 
entitled to expect repayment of the £75,000 Mr D had borrowed. The mortgage wasnt repaid 
until March 2020. During the intervening period, I can see that Mr D was trying to resolve the 
legal issue with the housing association. In this regard, I note that at one stage in February 
2019, Mr Ds own solicitor told BOI that she wanted the bank to take action against the 
freeholders  which is not something BOI was required to do; it was Mr Ds issue to resolve, 
not BOIs.
The banks notes show that throughout 2019 there were various scenarios put forward by 
Mr Ds representatives about a sale of the property  including attempts to sell the property 
on the open market, and a sale to a We Buy Any Home property company (which fell 
through, with Mr Ds solicitor telling BOI she was considering legal action against the 
property company for breach of contract). 
I see that in March 2019 Mr Ds solicitor was told again by BOI that the bank would not get 
involved in any legal issues between Mr D and the housing association. In April 2019 
another sale fell through. Mr Ds solicitor was unhappy that BOI would not take possession 
action, as she thought this might hold the housing association to account.
I dont think BOI acted unreasonably in explaining that it wasnt able to get involved in any 
dispute between Mr D and the housing association. This would only have increased the 
amount owed by Mr D to BOI, as the bank would have added its costs to the mortgage 
account. At that time, BOI was still prepared to allow Mr D to sell the property.There was considerable back-and-forth between Mr Ds solicitor and the bank over the next 
few months, largely in relation to the solicitor wanting the bank to send a complaint form 
(which is, in any event, available on our website), but with little progress to report on a sale 
of the property. It wasnt until September 2019 the bank was told a sale was imminent. 
Understandably, BOI asked for evidence of the sale and a timescale for completion. Given 
the previous history with sales that didnt proceed, I think this was a reasonable request.
On 12 September 2019 Mr Ds solicitor told BOI that, as she wasnt sure if the sale would 
even proceed, she was happy for the bank to begin possession proceedings. She said that 
when this happened, she would lodge a counterclaim on Mr Ds behalf claiming £180,000 
from BOI for Mr Ds alleged losses and legal costs, because she said it was BOIs fault that 
the property couldnt be sold, due to a restriction imposed by the housing association.
I cant comment on the instructions Mr D gave his solicitor, but Im satisfied that, after she 
confirmed to BOI that she was happy for the bank to proceed with litigation, it wasnt 
unreasonable, given that the property company sale didnt go ahead, for BOI to start legal 
action. 
BOIs solicitors were instructed in November 2019, over a year after the mortgage term 
expired, and after various assurance from Mr Ds solicitors that a sale was imminent had not 
come to pass. In the circumstances, I dont think the bank acted unreasonably.
The bank was told about the property auction due to take place in December 2019, but there 
was no update after that about whether or not the property had been sold at auction. Given 
this, I dont think BOI acted unreasonably in proceeding with legal action, with the claim 
being issued in January 2020. 
The hearing was set for 26 February 2020. On 18 February 2020 Mr Ds solicitor spoke to 
BOIs solicitor confirming she was sending in a witness statement that she was lodging with 
the court. She also said the sale of the property was due to complete on 10 March 2020, but 
didnt say that contracts had already been exchanged. There was no mention of Mr Ds 
solicitor asking for the bank to request the court to cancel or withdraw the hearing, or 
applying herself for an adjournment, which is what I would have expected.
To be clear, as the court had fixed the date for the hearing, it was up to the court to cancel or 
adjourn it  and Mr Ds solicitor could, if she had wanted to, apply to the court to request this 
if there was a compelling reason why the hearing should not go ahead (such as an 
exchange of contracts). The banks notes show that it wasnt until the afternoon of 
25 February 2020 that BOI was told that contracts had been exchanged. Im satisfied this 
was too late for BOI to apply to the court to seek an adjournment of the hearing which was 
fixed for the following morning.
In the circumstances, it was reasonable for BOI to attend the hearing, particularly given the 
history of the matter where Mr Ds solicitor had previously said she would issue a 
counterclaim against the bank on Mr Ds behalf for damages of £180,000. I also think it was 
reasonable for the hearing to go ahead bearing in mind that BOI had been told several times 
before that completion of a sale was imminent, only for it to fall through at the eleventh hour.
The mortgage terms and conditions allow BOI to add its reasonable legal costs to the 
mortgage account. Im satisfied the legal costs added of £1,084.60 are reasonable and that 
BOI was entitled to recover them from Mr D on redemption of the mortgage, in accordance 
with the account terms and conditions. I can see no basis on which it would be fair or 
reasonable to order BOI to pay the costs incurred by Mr Ds solicitor, given the history of the 
matter.I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. But after taking account of 
everything that happened, Im satisfied BOI hasnt done anything wrong. Although BOI was 
entitled to immediate repayment of this BTL mortgage, it took into account Mr Ds 
circumstances, including his health issues, and granted reasonable forbearance to allow the 
legal issues with the restriction on the property to be resolved. Its unfortunate that a number 
of sales fell through  and I understand this was upsetting and frustrating for Mr D  but this 
wasnt due to any fault on the part of BOI.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman