DRN-4196808
The complaint
Mr P complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) unfairly avoided his policy 
and declined his claim.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr P took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire through a price 
comparison website and renewed it the following year. In March 2022, a claim was made 
against the policy as Mr Ps wife (a named driver) was unfortunately involved in an accident.
Skyfire then said Mr P had answered the question they asked him about modifications 
incorrectly. Specifically, they said he hadnt disclosed the fact his car had an aftermarket 
performance exhaust fitted. And they considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled them to avoid the policy, refuse all claims and refund the 
policy premium
Mr P brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He didnt 
agree with Skyfire that a qualifying misrepresentation had taken place and believed Mr P 
when he said he wasnt aware of the modified exhaust. He reached this conclusion as he 
said Mr P had disclosed other modifications, so there was no reason he wouldnt have also 
disclosed the performance exhaust.
Skyfire didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for a final decision. In doing so, 
they said the exhaust on Mr Ps car appeared significantly different to the standard version, 
so it should have been apparent to a reasonable consumer. They also said it was likely the 
car had a noticeable sound difference due to the modification. And they were concerned    
Mr P hadnt been able to provide a copy of the most recent MOT certificate. They also 
clarified that the items Mr P had described as modifications were actually accessories and 
therefore not disclosed as per the policy schedule.
The investigator then apologised for his oversight in relation to the accessories, but said his 
opinion remained the same. 
Mr P then provided some additional information about the circumstances surrounding the 
sale of his car and the policy. In summary he said:
He purchased the car from his local mechanic on the same day as his previous car 
was declared uneconomical to repair.
He was happy to buy the car straight away as his wife drives the estate version of the
same car and he didnt wish to be without a vehicle.
Hed driven cars with dual exhaust systems before including his wifes, but this was
the first car where the exhaust pipes were separated from each other.
The mechanic didnt disclose any information about the exhaust, and he didnt ask
any questions as he thought it was factory fitted.
The mechanic has since said he wasnt aware of the modification, and he would have
needed to complete a full inspection of the exhaust to determine this.
None of the paperwork he received with the car including the logbook and service
history mentions the modified exhaust.
He didnt notice anything unusual in relation to the sound of the car and no concerns
were raised about this as part of the MOT.
He disclosed a towbar, dash cam and satnav on the price comparison website and
can only assume they arent shown on the policy schedule as Skyfire didnt treat
them as modifications.
Hes aware of other cars that have a similar exhaust system to his car, and he
highlighted the adverts hed previously provided our service.
I then asked Skyfire if they could provide any additional information about the sound
difference they'd mentioned. In response, Skyfire explained that Mr Ps car no longer runs
so they were unable to test the sound or provide any additional information. They also
explained that the price comparison website didnt list any accessories at the time Mr P
applied for the policy and confirmed that Mr P answered no to the modifications question. 
On 12 June 2023 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I didnt intend on upholding 
the complaint. I said: 
 
I would firstly like to thank Skyfire and Mr P for their patience while Ive been considering this 
complaint. I appreciate this decision will come as a huge disappointment to Mr P and Im 
aware of the impact it will have on him. In reaching this decision, I've considered all the 
submissions from both sides, but I wont comment on everything. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy but is simply a reflection of the informal nature of this service.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations)Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Skyfire thinks Mr P 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he applied for the 
policy on a price comparison website and answered the question about modifications. Ive 
therefore looked at the question Mr P was asked and note that it says:
Does the car have any modifications?
A help icon next to this question also explains that modifications are non-standard changes 
made to the car after manufacture, including new spoilers, alloy wheels etc.
Im satisfied this was a clear and specific question. So, Mr P should have taken reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when answering it. Skyfire have said Mr P didnt do so, 
as he should have declared the modified performance exhaust. To support this conclusion, 
they've said the exhaust looks significantly different to the factory fitted version and it's likely 
there would have been a noticeable sound difference.
Based on the illustration Ive seen of the standard version, Im satisfied Mr Ps car was fitted 
with a modified performance exhaust. Ive therefore carefully considered if Mr P failed to take 
reasonable care by not disclosing it.Skyfires engineer has said the modified exhaust could have resulted in a noticeable sound 
difference. I accept this is a possibility, as a difference in sound is a feature often associated 
with modified performance exhausts. However, as Mr P strongly disputes this and because 
there is no way to verify this possibility, Im not satisfied Mr P should reasonably have known 
his car was modified based on sound alone.
Ive therefore considered a photograph of the back of Mr Ps car and compared it to a similar 
car fitted with the standard exhaust. Having done so, I agree with Skyfire that the exhaust 
systems look significantly different. I say this as the two exhaust pipes on Mr Ps car are 
considerably larger, separated from each other and extend past the cars bumper. They 
therefore have an unusual appearance and stand out significantly from the exhaust pipes 
that are typically fitted on most cars.
Mr P has explained that his car was purchased suddenly as his previous car couldnt be 
repaired. His wife drives the estate version of the same car and hes driven other cars with 
dual exhaust systems before. Due to these specific circumstances, I can understand to a 
certain extent, why Mr P may have overlooked the unusual appearance of his cars exhaust.
However, as mentioned above, the standard of care Im required to apply is that of a 
reasonable consumer. Ive therefore carefully considered this standard, and I think most 
consumers (without any expert car knowledge) would reasonably have identified and 
disclosed the modification based on the cars appearance alone. I say this as the exhaust 
pipes stand out as unusual and look significantly different to those fitted on most cars 
including those with a dual exhaust system. This therefore means, Im satisfied Mr P didnt 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he applied for the policy and 
answered the above question.
Mr P has asked how he could be expected to identify the modification if the mechanic who 
sold him the car couldnt. I empathise with his position, but its not my place to question his 
mechanics skills or knowledge. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied most 
consumers without any expert car knowledge would reasonably have identified the 
modification. Im also aware of the adverts Mr P has provided that appear to show cars with 
dual exhaust systems that are similar to his. However, the adverts arent many in number 
and only contain limited information. So, its possible the cars in those adverts also have 
modified exhausts. In any event, I dont think they impact the outcome of this complaint, or 
the reasoning I've detailed above.
Skyfire have provided their underwriting criteria which explains what they would have done if 
Mr P had disclosed the modification. This shows they wouldnt have offered him a policy. So, 
Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Under CIDRA, a misrepresentation can be deliberate or reckless, or careless. Skyfire have 
said Mr Ps misrepresentation was careless. As this offers the most favourable outcome for 
Mr P (compared to it being categorised as deliberate or reckless) I see no reason to interfere 
with this decision.
As Im satisfied Mr Ps qualifying misrepresentation was careless, Ive looked at the actions 
Skyfire can take in accordance with CIDRA. These include avoiding the policy and refusing 
all claims. However, they must also refund the policy premium. This reflects Skyfires actions 
here, so Im satisfied they have treated Mr P fairly, and I see no grounds for directing them to 
do anything more.
Skyfire accepted my provisional decision and didnt wish to add any further comments. 
Mr P asked me to reconsider and in summary said: Based on a recent conversation with the manufacturer, he now accepts his car was 
fitted with an aftermarket performance exhaust. However, the manufacturer also 
explained they offer dual performance exhausts of a similar nature (as an optional 
extra) for some of their cars. He also provided photographs of two car manuals to 
support this. 
Hes looked at a few car forums and now understands that dual exhaust 
modifications are quite popular and genuine parts are frequently used. He also 
noticed that these modifications are often made simply for aesthetic reasons and 
thinks this is likely to be what happened with his car. He also said the exhaust on his 
car was fitted to a professional standard, so he doesnt agree it looks like an obvious 
modification. 
He agrees his car was purchased suddenly. However, he also carried out a lot of 
research before his wife bought her car and this included looking at cars with similar 
dual exhaust pipes. So, he didnt have any reason to think his car had been modified. 
He still maintains that he disclosed other modifications when he applied for the 
policy, and he would have shared accurate information about the modified exhaust if 
hed been aware of it. He also provided evidence which suggests a different business 
may have been involved in the sale of the policy. So, he strongly feels this matter 
needs further investigation and the complaint should be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im glad Mr P has now accepted his car had an aftermarket performance exhaust fitted, so 
he can have some peace of mind in relation to this. I also appreciate the additional reasons 
hes given for overlooking the modification. However, the standard of care Im required to 
apply is that of a reasonable consumer, and I dont think Mr Ps additional comments or 
evidence changes my decision. Ill now explain why. 
Mr P has suggested the modification could be easily overlooked as it was completed to a 
high standard, but I respectfully disagree. I dont think the exhaust pipes look like they were 
factory fitted or that they appear to belong with the rest of the car. I think they stand out 
significantly and look unusual. Ive also considered the two car manuals Mr P has provided 
and have no reason to doubt what hes said about the manufacturer. However, this 
additional information doesnt change my thoughts about the appearance of his specific 
vehicle. 
Im also still convinced most reasonable consumers would have identified the modification 
based on the cars appearance, or at the very least checked with the manufacturer before 
answering the relevant question. In which case, they would have received confirmation (as 
Mr P has now done) that the car was fitted with a modified performance exhaust. So, while 
Mr P is likely to strongly disagree with me, Im satisfied he failed to take reasonable care 
when he applied for the policy and answered the clear and specific question Ive previously 
detailed. 
Im also satisfied that based on the evidence Ive seen (the policy schedule and a screen 
shot from Skyfire) Mr P didnt disclose any accessories or other modifications when he 
applied for the policy. I would also have reasonably expected Mr P to have contacted Skyfire 
upon receiving the policy schedule, if he thought it contained incorrect information. In any 
event, the outcome of this complaint would still be the same even if there was evidence     Mr P declared other modifications. As Skyfire acted reasonably by avoiding the policy due to 
the aftermarket performance exhaust and there is no dispute this specific modification wasnt 
disclosed.
I can also confirm that the additional business Mr P has mentioned is a cashback company, 
and Skyfire have provided evidence of the price comparison website Mr P used to purchase 
the policy. So, Im satisfied I dont need to look into the circumstances surrounding the sale 
any further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman