DRN-2609500
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that AWP P&C SA (Allianz) unfairly declined the claim he made under
his travel insurance policy when his mobile phone was stolen while he was abroad.
What happened
At the end of 2019, Mr M booked an overseas trip. He bought a travel insurance policy 
provided by Allianz at the same time as he booked his flights.
On the first night of his trip, Mr M went to a bar and ordered a takeaway meal. He had to wait 
around 15 minutes for it. He says he placed his phone and rucksack on the counter table 
where he was waiting for his food. When his food was ready, Mr M collected his rucksack  
but found his phone was gone.
Mr M reported the theft to the local police. And, when he returned home, he made a claim for 
the phone under his travel insurance policy.
Allianz declined Mr Ms claim. They explained that the policy required Mr M to keep 
valuables on his person. As hed not done that, they wouldnt settle his claim for his phone. 
Mr M complained to Allianz about their decision. And he said hed not received a copy of the 
policy before he travelled  so he wasnt aware of the term. He said that, if he had been 
aware, he wouldnt have bought the policy.
Allianz considered Mr Ms complaint but rejected it. They said that buying a policy 
automatically generates an email to the policyholder sending them the policy details. But Mr 
M didnt tell them hed not received anything until he returned to the UK and made a claim.
And Allianz repeated they couldnt pay Mr Ms claim. But, as a gesture of goodwill, they 
offered to refund the premium hed paid.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator considered it but 
didnt think Allianz shouldve done anything differently. She noted that Allianz had the right 
email address for Mr M  so on balance she thought hed been sent the policy documents. 
She looked at the policy terms and thought it was reasonable for Allianz to apply them as 
they did, and not settle Mr Ms claim. So she thought Allianzs offer to refund the premium 
was fair.
I agreed with our investigators view, but for different reasons  so I made a provisional 
decision.  I considered Mr Ms statement that he wouldnt have bought the policy if hed 
known about the limits of the cover.  But I saw the terms were available to view before he 
bought the policy.  And he bought it  even though it didnt provide cover for the full value of 
the phone.  
And I noted that the term Allianz relied on is very common in travel insurance policies.  So, if 
Mr M didnt buy a policy containing this type of term, hed have had to travel without any 
travel insurance at all  and I didnt think that was likely.
Allianz havent responded to my provisional decision.  Mr M says that he bought the policy 
through his airlines website.  And either the airline didnt pass his email address onto Allianz 
 or Allianz failed to send the documents onto him.  He said that he didnt believe Allianz had 
his email address.  And he said the phone was in a rucksack on the counter table.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand why Mr M thinks Allianz should have sent him a copy of his policy.  I agree they 
should have.  Before I made my provisional decision, I asked Allianz to send me a copy of 
the email doing this.  
But Allianz explained that the email would have been generated automatically when Mr M 
bought the policy  and they cant regenerate this.  So Ive not been able to see what was 
sent.  
But I do think that Mr Ms understanding of what happened is mistaken.  Its clear from his 
comments on my provisional decision that hes under the impression that his email address 
had to be passed from the airline to Allianz, so Allianz could forward policy documents to 
him.  But that didnt happen, because the email was generated automatically.
Although I cant see the email itself, Allianz have provided a screenshot of the details Mr M 
entered when he bought the policy.  Those include his email address  which is correct.  So 
Im satisfied that the system had the right information to send the policy to Mr M.  I cant hold 
Allianz responsible for any error which meant the automatically generated email didnt reach 
him.
And  as I explained in my provisional decision  I dont think its likely that Mr M wouldve 
done anything differently if he had received the policy before he travelled.  
Allianz declined Mr Ms claim on the basis of the term in their policy which says that personal 
possessions arent covered, unless:
 they are on your person, locked in the accommodation you are using on your journey or 
they are out of sight in the locked boot or covered luggage area of a locked motor vehicle.
Mr M says that his phone was in/on his rucksack on a counter table.  I think its reasonable 
for Allianz to say thats not on his person.
Im aware Mr Ms said he wouldnt have bought it if hed known about this limitation.  But this 
is a limitation common to many travel insurance policies.  If Mr M had decided not to buy any 
policy containing a clause like this, the most likely outcome of that decision wouldve been 
he had to travel without insurance. I dont think its likely he wouldve done that.  
But, if he had, Mr M would have been in the same position as he is now  except he wouldnt 
have paid the policy premium.  Allianz have offered to refund that to him, if he provides them 
with his bank details.  I think thats a fair outcome to Mr Ms complaint because it puts him 
back in the position he wouldve been if he hadnt bought the policy.  So Im not deciding that 
Allianz need to do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about AWP P&C SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman