DRN-2802633
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC took so long in dealing with a 
mortgage product switch that theyd applied for.
As the new product still wasnt in force nine months after theyd applied for it, they say they 
were forced to take a different product instead rather than continue paying their mortgage at 
the much higher standard variable rate (SVR).
 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in April 2020, the findings of which stated:
This application was incredibly poorly handled by Barclays and its solicitor. The solicitor 
was acting as Barclays agent in this matter, so Im satisfied Barclays is liable for any 
compensation that is due because of that.
Weve put it to Barclays on various occasions since January 2021 that it appears from 
Land Registry records that the title was amended (so one title held the residential 
property and the small amount of land as had been requested by Barclays) on 
1 April 2019. Barclays hasnt disputed that or provided evidence to the contrary, so Im 
proceeding with this provisional decision on the basis that is now an agreed fact. On that 
basis I see no reason to believe this product switch couldnt have been completed by 
8 April 2019; that is, one week after the title issue had been resolved.
Barclays has admitted the second charge issue was its error so I dont need to make any 
findings on that. As the second charge was also with Barclays there seems to be no 
reason why it couldnt have dealt with that in the period between the product switch 
application being made in January 2019 and when the title issue was resolved on 
1 April 2019. That means the second charge issue shouldnt have delayed things past the 
8 April 2019 date I set out above as the date this product switch should have completed.
I must take issue with Barclays comment that Mr and Mrs C subsequently chose to 
switch to a fixed rate product rather than continuing matters to a conclusion as a means 
of capping its liability for Mr and Mrs Cs losses at 11 October 2019.
At the point Mr and Mrs C made that decision theyd been paying their mortgage at the 
substantially higher SVR for nine months, and they had no way of knowing if matters 
would take another nine months, or even longer, to resolve. I would say switching to a 
lower fixed rate at that time was a prudent decision by Mr and Mrs C designed to mitigate 
their losses. It would be inherently unfair to use Mr and Mrs Cs decision (which we cant 
forget only had to be made due to the poor service that had befallen what should have 
been a simple switch to a new offset product) against them.
Having considered everything, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint in full, and 
order compensation be paid to take into account Mr and Mrs Cs losses to the date this 
complaint is settled.
Fair compensation
I'm currently minded to order Barclays to switch Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage to the offset 
product they selected, backdated to 8 April 2019.
As part of that Barclays will need to unwind the fixed rate that was put in place in 
October 2019. I understand there was a £999 product fee for that fixed rate product which 
was added to the mortgage debt, so that amount should be removed. But in its place, 
there would have been a £499 product fee for the offset product so that should be added 
to the mortgage as at 8 April 2019.
Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs C the amount calculated as C, where:
A: Barclays should calculate the overpayments Mr and Mrs C made each month due to 
higher payments being taken than would have been required under the offset product, 
and then add interest on each of those overpayments from the date each payment was 
made to the date of settlement. Interest should be calculated at 8% simple per annum.
B: The amount of interest Mr and Mrs C gained on those savings that would have been
used towards the offsetting facility as they wouldnt have received that interest had the 
offset product been put in place.
C: A minus B
The calculation should be carried out from 8 April 2019 up until the date the remedial 
product switch is made. Barclays should include in its calculation the full offsetting 
benefits to the date of settlement, with those being covered by Barclays as part of the 
redress.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to withhold tax from the 8% simple interest, 
Barclays should give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much is taken off if 
Mr and Mrs C ask for one.
In addition, Barclays should pay £600 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
I understand the preferential interest rate  and early repayment charge period  for the 
offset product is due to end on 30 August 2021. This means from 1 September 2021 
Mr and Mrs C will be free to move to the reversionary rate detailed in the mortgage offer 
for that product, select a new product (including offset products) with Barclays if one is 
available for them, or move their mortgage to another lender.
If my final decision is the same as this provisional decision, and Mr and Mrs C accept 
that, I would expect there to be no further delays in the offset product being put in place. 
Barclays seemed to think everything was ready to go in October 2019 so that should still 
be the case now.
If there is anything further that needs to be done, Id ask Barclays to detail that in its 
response to this provisional decision. If Barclays doesnt respond to this provisional 
decision, or it does respond but makes no comment on that, I will take that as 
confirmation that nothing further of note needs to be done, other than some paperwork 
being signed by Mr and Mrs C.
Whilst I am sure it wont be an issue, I feel it would be prudent to add that Mr and Mrs C 
should be proactive in anything they need to do for the switch to ensure things keep 
moving.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr and Mrs C accepted my provisional decision, and Barclays didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my opinion hasnt changed, and Im satisfied with the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision.
To that end, I order Barclays to switch Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage to the offset product they 
selected, backdated to 8 April 2019.
As part of that Barclays will need to unwind the fixed rate that was put in place in 
October 2019. I understand there was a £999 product fee for that fixed rate product which 
was added to the mortgage debt, so that amount should be removed. But in its place, there 
would have been a £499 product fee for the offset product so that should be added to the 
mortgage as at 8 April 2019.
Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs C the amount calculated as C, where:
A: Barclays should calculate the overpayments Mr and Mrs C made each month due to 
higher payments being taken than would have been required under the offset product, 
and then add interest on each of those overpayments from the date each payment was 
made to the date of settlement. Interest should be calculated at 8% simple per annum.
B: The amount of interest Mr and Mrs C gained on those savings that would have been used 
towards the offsetting facility as they wouldnt have received that interest had the offset 
product been put in place.
C: A minus B
The calculation should be carried out from 8 April 2019 up until the date the remedial product 
switch is made. Barclays should include in its calculation the full offsetting benefits to the 
date of settlement, with those being covered by Barclays as part of the redress.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to withhold tax from the 8% simple interest, 
Barclays should give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much is taken off if 
Mr and Mrs C ask for one.
In addition, Barclays should pay £600 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
I understand the preferential interest rate  and early repayment charge period  for the 
offset product is due to end on 30 August 2021. This means from 1 September 2021 
Mr and Mrs C will be free to move to the reversionary rate detailed in the mortgage offer for 
that product, select a new product (including offset products) with Barclays if one is available 
for them, or move their mortgage to another lender.
If Mr and Mrs C accept this final decision, I would expect there to be no further delays in the 
offset product being put in place. Barclays seemed to think everything was ready to go in 
October 2019 so that should still be the case now. As Barclays didnt respond to my 
provisional decision, Ive taken that as confirmation that nothing further of note needs to be 
done, other than some paperwork being signed by Mr and Mrs C. Whilst I am sure it wont be an issue, I feel it would be prudent to add that Mr and Mrs C 
should be proactive in anything they need to do for the switch to ensure things keep moving.
Im conscious Barclays will need to undertake some complex calculations so I think it is 
reasonable to expect  subject to Mr and Mrs C undertaking the parts they need to do 
without delay  that Barclays should implement this resolution within eight weeks of being 
notified that Mr and Mrs C have accepted this final decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle it as Ive laid out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman