DRN-2864739
The complaint
Miss K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc excessively charged her when she made an
international transfer and she had an error message after completing the transfer.
What happened
Miss K attempted to make an international transfer for £20,000 to a family member, using
the HSBC application (app). When completing the payment details she left the screen to
double check the details she entered were correct. Miss K said that she then proceeded with
the payment as all of the details looked correct on the preview screen, but she forgot to
check the currency the payment was made in.
Miss K says that when she completed the transaction, she wasnt given a reference number
and an error showed on her screen. Because of this, Miss K thought the transaction hadnt
actually completed and went to make the payment again. As she received a prompt from the
online app that she had already made a payment to the same recipient she didnt complete
the payment again.
The recipient of the payment told Miss K that they had only received £18,900. Miss K
contacted HSBC for them to investigate why this was and had follow up calls with them but
because she didnt get consistent responses from her follow up calls she raised a complaint
with HSBC. She had told HSBC that the recipients bank was contacted and they said they
didnt exchange the currency or charge for the transaction. She also said that the recipients
account could have accepted different currency to GBP but then later confirmed that it could
only accept GBP.
HSBC did not uphold her complaint. HSBC said that after speaking to their Electronic
Payments Team, Miss K had selected the payment to be made in Polish currency - Zloty
(PLN) and as the beneficiary in Poland had a Great British Pounds (GBP) currency account,
the payment was converted back to GBP and Miss K suffered a loss. They said that HSBC
had made no error in processing the payment.
Miss K brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold her complaint.
He said that he had not found any evidence of any HSBC error and that HSBCs systems
automatically populates the currency to the currency in which the beneficiarys country uses.
He said this seems to suggest this is how the online system functions, rather than there
being a problem that makes this occur. Miss K asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an
Ombudsman.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When money is sent internationally this often creates a Society for Worldwide Interbank
Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) message which sends and receives information
about financial transactions between financial institutions. Ive looked at the SWIFT message
in great detail to try and work out what happened here.
Im satisfied that the payment was instructed to be made in PLN. I say this as the SWIFT
message shows this was the instruction. So Ive considered what could have happened here
as Miss K is certain that she made the payment in GBP.
Our investigator explained to Miss K that HSBCs systems automatically pre populate to
show the currency of the country it is being sent to on the online payments form. So Im
persuaded that one of two things has happened here. Either that the transaction had always
been in PLN and Miss K had forgotten to change this to GBP. Or, when Miss K left the
screen to check the details were correct then this reverted the payment back to PLN.
But Ive considered both outcomes of what couldve happened here and they lead me to the
same outcome. As HSBCs screens show a verification page summarising the payment
details including the currency it is being made in before the payment is submitted then Miss
K was responsible for checking that the details on the page were accurate before submitting
the payment.
Miss K said to our service on her complaint form that she didnt double check the currency
the payment was being made in. But had she checked this then Im satisfied she wouldve
seen that the currency was made in PLN based on the evidence of the SWIFT message. Ive
seen no evidence from either party that details could change from the verification screen to
the completion of the transaction. So I cant hold HSBC responsible for Miss K clicking to
confirm all of the details were correct, even if she was under the impression the payment
was sent in GBP.
Although Miss K has said there was an error message on the app after the payment was
made and this is why she didnt get a transaction reference, Im not persuaded that this
means there was an error with the app for the payment itself as the SWIFT message shows
the details which were instructed by Miss K when she confirmed the payment details.
Ive then looked at the issue of the foreign exchange loss. This is not a fee in itself but if the
exchange rate between PLN and GBP is different from when the payment is processed to
when the payment was converted back to GBP then this would be passed onto the customer
whether it was higher or lower.
Im not persuaded that HSBC are responsible for the foreign exchange loss and Ill explain
why. HSBC confirmed that they charged £4 for the online transaction and that they sent the
money as instructed by PLN. And this is the only charge indicated on the SWIFT message
by HSBC. Im persuaded that it wasnt HSBC who converted the money from PLN to GBP
which caused the foreign exchange loss. There was no foreign exchange loss either from
them acting on the instruction to convert the payment from GBP to PLN originally and its my
understanding the exchange rate wouldve shown on the verification screen before the
payment was confirmed. Im persuaded their role in the transaction is limited to sending the
money Miss K instructed them to send in PLN.
Miss K confirmed to HSBC in an email dated 27 November 2020 that the receiving bank
could only accept payments in GBP. Again, Ive looked at the SWIFT message to see if this
would give me an indication of what couldve happened here.
The SWIFT message appears to show that a third party bank may have been involved in the
transaction, along with HSBC and the recipients bank. This happens a lot with international
payments when some financial institutions do not have the infrastructure or capability to
directly accept international payments.So Im persuaded that one of two things have happened here, but they both result in the
same outcome  either the third party bank have converted the PLN to GBP on the receiving
banks behalf if they were involved in the transaction or the receiving bank have converted
the PLN to GBP.
So, what the bank could have done here is one of two things  either convert the PLN to
GPB and pass on the loss to Miss K or return the money to Miss K as they couldnt accept
the payment in PLN  this likely wouldve incurred a foreign exchange loss also and the
recipient would not have received the remaining funds. But as the payment was sent in PLN
and it needed to be converted to GBP to reach the recipients account, then whether it was
HSBC, the third party bank or the recipients bank who passed on the foreign exchange loss,
then Im satisfied it was a legitimate charge as it would be unfair for them to take on the
liability for the difference in exchange rates when the instruction was submitted to send the
payment in PLN.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss K confirmed the payment which was ultimately made for
the reasons Ive already given. And as the payment was converted from PLN to GBP as the
recipients bank account couldnt accept PLN then a foreign exchange loss was passed on to
Miss K. I havent seen any evidence of a HSBC error on the transaction itself or the
exchange rate loss, so although Miss K will be disappointed, it follows that I wont be asking
HSBC to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC didnt respond. Miss K responded and said she was disappointed with my 
provisional decision. She made several comments about the process of HSBC providing 
information and she asked if I had requested a screen by screen transaction history from 
HSBC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure Miss K that I did request evidence in relation to the app activity from the day 
when she made the transaction. This would have provided evidence such as what was input 
on the screens and any errors that may have occurred. But HSBC have said they only have 
access to the last five actions of any type - this information wouldnt have been relevant to 
her complaint. So we do have the power to request information, but if HSBC dont have the 
information weve requested available to them, then they wouldnt be able to send this to us.
Miss Ks response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning remains the 
same as in my provisional decision. I know Miss K will be disappointed with the decision, but 
I hope she understands my reasons.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman