DRN-3327788
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that Avantcredit of UK LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
The adjudicator recommended that loan 2 should be upheld but didnt think AvantCredit was 
wrong to lend loan 1. 
Avantcredit hasnt responded to the adjudicators view and so I dont know what its 
disagreement with the adjudicators assessment may be.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H doesnt dispute the adjudicators finding on loan 1 and so there isnt a continuing 
dispute about that loan and so Ive made a decision about loan 2 below.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
AvantCredits checks didnt go far enough and it should have taken its checks further. 
I say this because based on what AvantCredit knew about Mr H it should have been 
concerned about his ability to repay the loan without suffering adverse 
consequences.
AvantCredit could see from its checks that Mr H had a high level of indebtedness and 
was likely paying a significant part of his income towards monthly credit.
Had AvantCredit carried out what I consider to be sufficient checks, it would have 
found that it shouldnt have lent to Mr H. This because further checks would have 
shown that Mr H was borrowing from at least three other lenders and repaying the 
borrowing on his credit card. AvantCredit would have seen that Mr H was reliant on 
credit.
On this basis, I have concluded that Avantcredit shouldnt have lent the loan 2 to 
Mr H and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right  what AvantCredit should do.
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 2 from Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct AvantCredit of UK 
LLC to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman