DRN-4297448
The complaint
Miss P complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited didnt inform her that her motor 
insurance policy had been cancelled. She wants compensation for the results.
What happened
Skyfire asked Miss P to make an additional payment for her motor insurance policy. Skyfire 
said it tried to make contact with Miss P on many occasions, but she didnt respond. So it 
then cancelled her policy. Miss P said she was unaware of this. She was later stopped by 
the police for driving whilst uninsured, had her car impounded, was fined, and had six points 
on her licence. Miss P said that if she had been made aware, she would have made the 
additional payment. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Skyfire hadnt done enough to warn Miss P about the impending cancellation. But she 
thought it had reasonably made Miss P aware that the policy had cancelled. So she thought 
Skyfire wasnt responsible for Miss P being stopped by the police. But she thought it should 
remove records of the cancellation, provide Miss P with a letter to show her new insurer, and 
pay her £150 compensation. 
Skyfire agreed to do this. But Miss P replied that Skyfire should have prevented her policy 
being cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss P feels frustrated that her policy was cancelled and that she was 
stopped by the police. Shes explained that this has had financial consequences for her, and 
she has an additional six points on her licence.
The problem arose when Skyfire asked Miss P for information to validate her policy and an 
undisclosed fine was found. Skyfire then recalculated Miss Ps premium and asked her to 
pay an additional amount. But Miss P said she wasnt made aware of this and didnt respond 
so Skyfire cancelled her policy. 
The Investigator has explained that this service believes that insurers should take 
reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are told that their policy has been cancelled 
as this will have serious consequences for them and expose them to possible court action. 
And we think insurers should use at least two means of contact, or two emails on different 
days, to warn consumers about their policy being cancelled. 
Skyfire said it sent Miss P texts and emails. But it didnt send Miss P any texts about the 
additional premium or the cancellation. It did send Miss P three emails. But theres no 
evidence that Miss P opened the email warning her of the cancellation. 
Miss P did open one email telling her that her policy had been cancelled on that date. But Im 
satisfied that Skyfire didnt make Miss P sufficiently aware of how she could avoid the 
cancellation. I think Miss P would have made the additional payment if it had made her 
aware of this. And so I think it unfairly cancelled her policy. 
Miss P was stopped by the police three months later for driving whilst uninsured. Miss P had 
already been told her policy had been cancelled as she had opened Skyfires email telling 
her this. And I can see that Skyfires collection agency contacted Miss P multiple times by 
email and texts in the next few months to try and recover the outstanding balance on her 
account. And I can see that Miss P opened these emails. 
Miss P has provided us with these emails, but she said she didnt know why she was 
receiving them. However, I think Miss P should have realised from the cancellation 
breakdown email she opened that her policy had been cancelled. And I think she should 
have acted to make sure her car was insured. So I cant reasonably hold Skyfire responsible 
for the consequences of Miss P not being insured when she was stopped by the police. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Skyfire accepts it has done here by unfairly 
cancelling Miss Ps policy, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able 
to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
To restore Miss Ps position, I think Skyfire should remove any records of the cancellation 
from any databases where its been recorded. It should then provide Miss P with a letter 
confirming that the cancellation has been removed so that she can ask her new insurer to 
reconsider her premium. The cancellation has caused Miss P trouble and upset, so I think 
Skyfire should pay her £150 compensation in keeping with our published guidance. And 
Skyfire should reimburse Miss P the cancellation fee it applied, with interest. 
Putting things right
I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do the following, as its already agreed to do:
1. Remove records of the cancellation from any internal and external databases where its 
been recorded.
2. Provide Miss P with a letter stating that the cancellation has been removed. 
3. Pay Miss P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
cancellation of her policy. 
4. Refund the cancellation charge Miss P paid, adding interest to this at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum from the date of payment to the date of refund. If Skyfire considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Miss P how much its taken off. It should also give Miss P a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its 
already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman