DRN-4278770
The complaint
Mr G complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) 
provided him with a loan which wasnt affordable because he had a low income and lots of 
other, outstanding credit.  
What happened
Mr G was advanced one loan on 19 February 2020 for £400. Mr G was due to make five 
instalments of £144.72 with a final instalment due of £76.40. Mr G did have some problems 
meeting his repayments while the loan was active, but he settled it on 8 August 2020  
which was earlier than contracted for.   
Lending Stream considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision 
to provide the loan because it was affordable based on the income and expenditure 
information provided. Unhappy with this response, Mr G referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said 
Lending Stream had reasonable grounds to believe Mr G could afford the loan and that it 
had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for a final decision, he also provided a copy of his full credit file 
from one of the credit reference agencies.
Lending Stream didnt have any further comments. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the 
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors 
include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Gs complaint and I agree. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Lending Stream asked Mr G for details of his income, which 
he declared as being £1,250 per month. Mr G also declared he worked full time and had 
worked at the same company for the last year. As this was the first loan, it was reasonable 
for Lending Stream to have relied on the information Mr G had provided. 
Mr G also declared monthly outgoings of £760. Lending Stream says these figures were 
broken down as £740 for regular expenditure and £20 for credit commitments. 
Lending Stream has shown that as part of the affordability assessment it considered whether 
it needed to make any adjustments to Mr Gs declared expenditure figures  and it decided 
that it didnt need to in this case. 
After carrying out these checks, Mr Gs disposable income was £490 per month with which 
to afford the largest monthly loan repayments of around £145. The loan wouldve looked 
affordable. 
Before the loan was advanced Lending Stream likely wouldve carried out a credit search 
with one of the credit reference agencies. This typically asked about Mr Gs outstanding 
balances and when if any accounts entered default or delinquency. As part of 
Lending Streams submission to the Financial Ombudsman, the details of each of these 
sections has been marked as NA which indicates there is no meaningful information. 
This could mean one of two things. Either a credit search wasnt carried out  and given this 
was a first loan for a modest sum, I dont think that wouldve been unreasonable. Especially 
when there wasnt a requirement for a credit search to be carried out. So if no credit search was conducted that alone wouldnt have been enough to say that a proportionate check 
wasnt carried out. 
However, it is of course also possible, that a credit search was carried out but for whatever 
reason the results are no longer available to be shared. Mr G has provided a copy of his full 
credit report from June 2023, so Ive considered this report in light of the sections that 
Lending Stream typically asked for information on in order to see whether if a credit search 
was conducted whether it may have impacted Lending Streams decision to lend.
But it is worth mention that Mr Gs credit report is from a different credit reference agency 
than the one that Lending Stream wouldve used at the time, before granting the loan.  
Mr Gs credit report does have accounts which have either been defaulted or have 
delinquency markers applied to them, but these were all after the loan was approved. So 
even if Lending Stream did do a credit search, these wouldnt have been visible. 
From the credit report, Mr G wouldve likely had around 6 active accounts including 2 bank 
accounts, a utility account, two credit cards and a revolving credit facility. But all of these had 
been  up to the point the loan was approved managed well as there were no adverse 
payment markers. 
It isnt clear whether a credit search was conducted by Lending Stream, but even if one was 
carried out  based on the information Ive been able to find, I dont think it wouldve been 
alerted to any signs that Mr G was having financial difficulties or that the loan was 
unaffordable for him. Nor would I say that Lending Stream had made an error by not carrying 
out a credit search because there was no requirement for it to do so. 
As this was Mr Gs first loan, for a modest sum, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream 
to have relied on the information Mr G gave about his income and expenditure which 
showed he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr G was having financial difficulties 
or that the loan would be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman