DRN-2105271
The complaint
Mrs W complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs W took out in 1997 
when she was in a store. The PPI covered Mrs W if she couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldn't conclude 
there was a reason why the policy shouldn't have been sold to Mrs W.
Mrs W didn't agree, saying that she was unemployed in 1997, so the complaint was passed 
to me.
My provisional decision
I was minded to uphold the complaint. I said that, in accordance with the policy terms, Mrs W 
needed to be working for at least 16 hours a week in order to be eligible for the policy. 
In response to our adjudicator's view, Mrs W had told us she was unemployed when she 
took the policy. Shed said she stopped working in December 1991 and remained 
unemployed until she became self-employed in 2001. She hadnt been able to provide any 
evidence of her unemployment, which I didnt find surprising given how long ago this was 
and the fact that she wasn't claiming unemployment benefits or looking for work - she was 
staying at home to look after her young family. But I found what she'd told us to be plausible.
As I concluded that, in all likelihood, Mrs W was unemployed in 1997, I found she wasnt 
eligible for the PPI. So I thought she had lost out - I didnt think Mrs W wouldve wanted to 
take and then pay for a policy that she wasnt eligible for. I concluded that AXA should put 
Mrs W in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken the PPI.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
As neither party has provided any additional information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
If Mrs Gs store card account is still open:
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs W would owe on her card if the policy hadnt been 
added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owes and what she would have 
owed.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs W 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest (at 8% a 
year) on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs 
W wouldve owed AXA something on her card. 
C. AXA should tell Mrs G what its done to work out A and B.
If Mrs Ws store card account is now closed:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs W would have owed when she closed her store card.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when she closed she 
account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mrs W 
wouldve owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs W 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest (at 8% a 
year) on the extra Mrs W paid. And they should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mrs W wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. 
D. AXA should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A, B and C.
In either case, if the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs W that relates 
to this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above. HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
AXA France IARD should pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman