DRN-3755294
The complaint
Mr B complains about poor service when he applied to Santander UK Plc for a loan. 
What happened
Mr B applied to Santander for a loan in September 2021. He made a complaint about delays 
when Santander wrote to ask for more information. He didnt consider this necessary when a 
credit check had been carried out, and he queried why Santander didnt use email and 
provide an email address for him to respond to. 
Santander responded to Mr Bs complaint and confirmed his application had been approved. 
It told Mr B the loan agreement and information on how to sign it would be sent by email in 
mid-October 2021. A code (for the release of the funds) would be sent by post. Mr B says he 
didnt receive the email or post. Mr B wrote to Santander in November and December 2021 
saying he hadnt received the loan agreement He says he didnt receive a response. He 
made a second complaint.
Santander responded to Mr Bs second complaint in January 2021. It says theres 
information on its website about how to progress loan applications and Mr B could have 
called if he needed help in how to proceed. 
Mr B says its not fair for Santander to say he should have phoned. He referred to equalities 
law and said Santander should offer services and ways to communicate in an accessible 
way. He says Santander should provide the loan which it had approved.
Our investigator said Santander could have done more to assist Mr B once it knew he hadnt 
received the loan agreement and code. He said Santander should pay compensation of 
£100 and remove the record of its search from Mr Bs credit file, which it agreed to do. Given 
the time passed, our investigator said Mr B would have to reapply for the loan as his 
circumstances could have changed.
Mr B didnt agree. He said it wasnt fair to require him to re-apply when his loan application 
had already been accepted and a credit check carried out. Mr B said compensation should 
be £200 at a minimum. He said he didnt ask for email and would have been happy to 
receive the agreement by post. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B applied online for a loan, which Santander approved. It was entitled to ask Mr B for 
information when assessing his application. It told Mr B the documents would be sent out on 
20 and 21 October 2021. Santander says it emailed and posted the loan agreement to Mr B, 
as well as separately posting a code for the release of the funds. 
Santander says the loan documents are generated automatically. This means it cant provide 
proof the documents were sent. It provided its records which show the loan agreement was 
generated on 19 October 2021. Unfortunately, Mr B didnt receive the documents sent by 
email or post. Its not clear why this was.
I wouldnt expect Santander to chase Mr B after sending out the loan agreement. It wouldnt 
have known that Mr B didnt receive the documents. While Mr B didnt take steps to accept 
the loan this could have been because hed decided not to go ahead with it. 
However, Santander did know thered been a problem with the delivery of the documents 
when it received Mr Bs letters sent in November and December 2021. It received the first 
letter on 12 November 2021. 
I think its unlikely, even if Santander had responded promptly to Mr Bs letter, that matters 
would have been sorted out in time for Mr B to take out the loan. Santander says customers 
have 28 days to accept a loan after its offered, and this period would have ended on 16 
November 2021. Santander wasnt aware Mr B hadnt received the loan documents until 12 
November 2021 (a Friday). This only left two working days to sort matters out, and Mr B 
specifically asked for a written response. Given what hes said, it seems unlikely hed have 
wanted to discuss the matter with Santander if it had phoned him. And Santander had 
already told Mr B it didnt correspond by email.
Santander said in its final response that Mr B could have called if he needed help with his 
loan application. Mr B objected to this, referring to equalities law and the requirement for 
businesses to make reasonable adjustments so as to make their services accessible. He 
said some people prefer not to communicate by phone. Mr Bs letters to Santander ask for a 
written response. 
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a 
case. 
Santander offers a telephone service. I dont think it intended to upset Mr B when it referred 
to this in its final response letter. While Mr B asked for a written response to his letters, he 
hadnt told Santander he needed it to make reasonable adjustments in its communications 
with him. And Santander did, as Mr B requested, respond to him in writing. It wrote to Mr B 
when it needed information from him, it accepted information from him in writing, and it 
responded to his complaints in writing. 
Putting things right
As I said, I dont think the outcome here would have been different if Santander had 
responded more quickly to Mr Bs first letter in November 2021. Whatever the problem was 
with Mr B receiving emails and post from Santander, I think its unlikely this would have been 
sorted out in time for him to accept and take out the loan. So, if Mr B still wanted the loan, he 
would have had to re-apply. I cant fairly require Santander to provide a loan to Mr B. Given 
the time passed, Santander will need to carry out checks, including that the loan is 
affordable for Mr B. 
If Mr B still wanted a loan, its likely hed have needed to make a new application even if 
Santander had responded to him more promptly in November 2021. So I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to require Santander to pay compensation for any inconvenience this might 
involve. 
But Santanders lack of response to the first letter caused inconvenience for Mr B, who had 
to write again in December 2021. Santander agreed to pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused, and says it has arranged for its credit search to be removed from Mr Bs credit file. I 
think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay £100 to Mr B (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman