DRN-4044202
The complaint
Miss R and Mr W have complained that Bank of Ireland UK Plc (BOI) failed to send the 
mortgage valuation report to their conveyancer when they were purchasing a buy-to-let 
(BTL) property. As a result, they werent aware until after theyd purchased the property that 
they needed building regulations consent for the loft conversion at the property.
Miss R and Mr W say they have incurred losses of over £5,000. They want BOI to cover the 
costs they incurred in order to regularise the loft conversion in the property and have a 
legally rentable property.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Miss R and Mr W being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Miss R and Mr W were buying a BTL property with a mortgage from BOI. 
On 7 September 2020 a valuation for mortgage purposes was carried out by a surveyor 
instructed by BOI. The valuation report said It is assumed that all necessary consents and 
approvals were obtained. Conveyancer to confirm.. On 23 September 2020 a mortgage 
offer was issued by BOI. The purchase completed on 17 November 2020.
In December 2021 Miss R and Mr W complained to BOI. They said their conveyancer had 
never seen a copy of the valuation report and so was unaware of the need to check for 
building regulations consent. It wasnt until after completion that Miss R and Mr W first 
became aware that there was no building regulations consent for the loft conversion. They 
had to apply for this retrospectively and lost rental income as a result.
BOI said it had sent the conveyancer a copy of the valuation report on 23 September 2020.
Dissatisfied with BOIs response, the complaint was brought to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that 
the valuation was carried out for BOIs purposes only, and that there was no evidence the 
conveyancer had ever asked for it. 
Miss R, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, disagreed with the investigators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said that where there is 
a clear instruction for the conveyancer to check regulations, the report should have been 
sent. Miss R queries why should we be down almost £6,000 because someone didnt 
include a report that said it needed reviewing. It is their mistake, not ours and I dont see why 
we should be out of pocket, it was a buy to let mortgage and the property wasnt legally fit to 
be let out.
Provisional decision of 8 March 2023
I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following conclusions.
The crux of this complaint is that Miss R says that, because the conveyancer  and 
by extension herself and Mr W  didnt see the valuation report, they were unaware 
of the need to ensure the loft conversion at the property complied with building 
regulations. Because of the time taken to sort this out, the property couldnt be rented 
out, and so Miss R and Mr W believe that BOI should be responsible for their losses.
Our rules say that, when making my decision, I have to take account of what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, relevant regulations, codes of 
practice, rules, guidance and standards, industry practice and relevant law.
This was a BTL mortgage, and as such it is considered to be an unregulated 
commercial loan. Therefore the regulations that apply to residential mortgages dont 
apply here. Generally speaking, on a residential mortgage application, most lenders 
will provide a copy of the valuation report to the applicant, even though it is for the 
lenders own purposes. But they dont have to, and some lenders dont do so at all. 
Theres no regulatory requirement to provide this.
In the circumstances of this particular complaint, I think the issue of whether or not 
BOI sent the valuation report is a bit of a red herring and isnt the issue that the 
outcome of the complaint turns on. Ill explain why below.
The valuation for this unregulated BTL mortgage was carried out for BOIs purposes 
only, in order for the bank to decide if the property was suitable security for a loan. 
While BOI chose and instructed the surveyor, the surveyor was independent of BOI. 
That said, BOI is required to instruct a reasonably competent surveyor. That is the 
extent of what its required to do. Ive seen a copy of the valuation report. This shows 
that the surveyor used to value the properties is a Member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. So Im satisfied that BOI instructed a suitably qualified surveyor 
to carry out the valuation on its behalf.
Ive also taken account of what the courts have said. There is case law that 
specifically addresses the issue of mortgage valuations on BTL properties which is 
relevant to this complaint. 
In the case of Scullion v Bank of Scotland [2011] EWCA Civ 693, the Court of Appeal 
provided a clear demarcation between residential and investment purchases. The 
issue in question in Scullion was whether a surveyor providing a report to a mortgage 
lender for a BTL mortgage owed a duty of care towards the borrower.
The Court of Appeal was unanimous in deciding that a surveyor who provides a 
valuation report for a BTL lender does not owe the borrower a duty of care. This is 
because the courts consider the purchase of a BTL property to be a commercial 
venture. 
Although I can depart from the approach followed by the courts if I think its fair and 
reasonable, I dont intend to do so here. Thats because, as commercial borrowers 
purchasing a BTL property, I would reasonably expect Miss R and Mr W to have 
carried out their own due diligence and have their own survey done on the property. If Miss R and Mr W had had their own survey carried out, it may (or may not) have 
mentioned the need to check if there was building regulations consent for the loft 
conversion.
The mortgage offer says that no reliance can be placed by Miss R and Mr W on any 
valuation carried out for mortgage valuation purposes and that BOI will accept no 
liability or responsibility for any loss or damage caused to them arising from the 
valuation report. This is a contractual term to which Miss R and Mr W agreed, and is 
in line with the legal position as I have explained above. 
The mortgage offer also provided a strong recommendation for Miss R and Mr W to 
have their own survey done before deciding whether or not to purchase the property.
The local search (known as CON29) carried out by the conveyancer would also have 
shown if there were any building regulations consents for the property. So it follows 
that if Miss R and Mr W had done their own due diligence and had their own survey 
done, the issue concerning building regulations they say they later learned about 
might not have arisen.
However, I cant hold BOI responsible if Miss R and Mr W didnt make sufficient 
enquiries before going ahead with their purchase. I do acknowledge that, after theyd 
bought the property, Miss R and Mr W had to go to the effort of obtaining the 
necessary consent and lost rental income in the meantime. 
I accept what Miss R and Mr W say  that this caused them expense, stress and 
inconvenience. But, given this was a BTL mortgage, there is simply no basis on 
which it would be fair or reasonable to order BOI to pay compensation in a situation 
where Miss R and Mr W hadnt carried out their own due diligence before purchasing 
the property.
BOI responded to confirm it had nothing further to say. Despite a reminder, Miss R and Mr W 
did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file from the outset and revisited my provisional decision. Having done so, I 
can see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, 
which are set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman