DRN-2817043
The complaint
Ms M has complained about the way Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has dealt 
with her claim. 
What happened
Ms M has a group income protection insurance policy through her employer, underwritten by 
Aviva. This would pay a benefit if Ms M was incapacitated as a result of illness or injury for a 
deferred (waiting) period of 28 weeks. Ms M is employed as a lawyer.
In 2019, Ms M became absent from work and made a claim. But Aviva declined the claim on 
the basis that Ms Ms stress was triggered by work place issues rather than a diagnosed 
mental health condition. And it said the medical evidence didnt support incapacity. 
Ms M disagreed and referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt think Aviva had unfairly rejected the claim.
Ms M disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The majority of the issues raised havent been addressed
Her complaint has been fundamentally misunderstood
The view is based on reasons which didnt form part of Avivas decision-making
Aviva accepts stress is covered by the policy
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms define incapacity as:
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her 
job role as a result of their illness or injury.
Duties are defined as:
The material and substantial duties that:
are normally required to perform the job role for the policyholder; and
perform a significant and integral part of the performance of the job role for 
the policyholder; and 
cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by the member or the policyholder.
The onus is on Ms M to show that she meets the definition of incapacity. Aviva requested 
medical evidence from Ms Ms GP from the deferred period. Ms M says Aviva should have 
requested further evidence from before the deferred period. I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Aviva to request and review evidence from the date of Ms Ms absence but if she feels 
there is further information in her medical history which is relevant, it is up to her to provide 
this to Aviva for consideration.
Aviva responded to the complaint in September 2020 and in summary, it said:
Any medical evidence it receives must provide enough detail to demonstrate 
symptoms are of such severity and frequency for incapacity.
Where work-related stress is the main reason for absence, Aviva does not as a rule, 
accept claims where this is the main contributing factor. It said that whilst there are 
no specific exclusions under the policy terms and conditions, it believes this to be an 
employment matter, rather than a medical one and therefore something best 
resolved between employer and employee. This hasnt previously been detailed in 
the policy wording but this is the stance it has always taken. 
It has recently updated its policy wording to reflect this to ensure there is clarity in 
cases where workplace stress could be considered as the main contributing factor to 
a members absence.
It said it doesnt consider claims for work-related stress. But it was incorrect to state 
this isnt covered under the policy. Each claim is dealt with on its individual merits 
taking into consideration all the factors contributing to any absence from the 
workplace. This is why it will still request and review the relevant medical evidence in 
respect of any absence before reaching a final decision. 
Aviva agrees with Ms M about some of the points she raised about its initial call with 
her. Specifically, it said there was no clear explanation for the reasons of the call, 
how the policy worked and what she could expect going forward. It was clear there 
was a possibility her claim wouldnt be paid due to the fact Ms Ms absence had been 
triggered by workplace matters and so it should have discussed this with Ms M and 
her employer. Aviva apologised to Ms M for this.
The key medical evidence 
Ive seen the following evidence:
April 2019  Ms M visited her GP and was signed off with a stress related problem.
June 2019  Ms M started CBT therapy.
June 2019  Ms M had an occupational health assessment with a doctor. Ms M 
explained her work place issues to the doctor who said Ms M was suffering from an 
adjustment reaction typified by anxiety and low mood which appeared to have been 
triggered by workplace issues. 
July 2019  Ms M had a further occupational health assessment in which it is noted 
that CBT was helping but Ms M was having issues with concentration, tiredness and 
sleep. 
July 2019  Ms Ms GP noted that she was looking brighter in herself and was happy 
to continue with her current dose of medication.
September 2019  Ms M saw a doctor and said she was struggling to concentrate 
and was feeling extremely tired during the day despite sleeping well. Ms M had 
continued with her medication and CBT. The doctor advised Ms M had started to 
experience symptoms of chronic fatigue. 
When Aviva reviewed Ms Ms medical records, it said there was insufficient evidence to 
support incapacity and so it declined the claim.Ms M has to show that she is incapacitated throughout the deferred period and beyond. The 
deferred period began when Ms M became absent. 
Having looked at the medical evidence available, it refers to stress and work place issues. 
As already explained by the investigator, stress isnt an illness and so by itself, wouldnt be 
enough to satisfy the terms of the policy. 
Ms M has made a number of comments about her symptoms and whilst stress can be a 
symptom of a number of illnesses, the evidence shows Ms Ms stress was related to her 
employment matter. As explained by Aviva, if the employment matters were resolved, Ms M 
would be able to work. She has to demonstrate incapacity as a result of her illness and the 
available medical evidence doesnt support this. 
Ive noted Ms Ms comments about the cause of illness and stress. But the test is whether 
Ms M is unable to work as a result of illness or injury for a period of at least 28 weeks (the 
deferred period). In Ms Ms case, the medical evidence suggests she is unable to work due 
to problems at work which are causing her stress, rather than an illness. 
Ms M has referred to evidence from before the deferred period. And has provided some 
evidence which shows that she started to suffer from chronic fatigue symptoms. Ms M (or 
her employer on her behalf) would need to submit a new claim to Aviva about this. The 
medical evidence has to demonstrate that Ms M is unable to perform the material and 
substantial duties of her role. In relation to evidence before the deferred period, I havent 
seen this so cant comment on it further. But in any event, Ms M would need to provide this 
to Aviva for consideration. Aviva did discuss an appeals process with Ms Ms employer. And 
so Ms M should discuss this further with her employer. 
Ms M also says Aviva does cover stress under its policy. But it said it doesnt consider 
claims for work-related stress. It then said it wasnt correct to state this isnt covered under 
the policy. I dont think Avivas explanation was helpful here and it seems contradictory. 
However, it went on to explain why employment matters werent covered and that workplace 
stress as a result of employment disputes isnt covered. Stress by itself isnt an illness and I 
dont think Aviva said stress was covered. It said it would consider each case and all the 
circumstances before reaching a decision which I think is reasonable. 
 
Ms Ms response to our investigator
Ms M has sent in detailed submissions, all of which I have carefully read and considered. I 
wont detail every point here but will deal with the points which I consider to be key to my 
decision. I have summarised Ms Ms key concerns which havent already been addressed by 
my decision so far: 
Aviva has breached its professional obligations 
I must take into account relevant law and regulations and guidance. Ms M has listed how 
she feels Aviva has breached its professional obligations. Having considered the case as a 
whole, Im satisfied Aviva hasnt unfairly declined Ms Ms claim or treated her unfairly. She 
has the option of providing further medical evidence via an appeals process or submitting a 
new claim for a new condition. Where Aviva accepts its customer service fell short it has 
apologised  and I think thats reasonable. 
In relation to changing its policy terms and conditions to include an explanation about work 
place stress, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong. It has explained it has always 
taken the same stance in relation to work place stress. And as stress isnt an illness, I dont think its policy terms and conditions which apply to Ms Ms claim are incorrect or invalid. 
Aviva isnt retrospectively changing the policy. It is merely changing the wording of its policy 
going forwards to make it clearer about the approach it has always generally taken to work 
place stress. I dont think its unfair or unreasonable to manage a policyholders expectations 
about what potentially wouldnt be covered. 
Ms Ms complaint has been fundamentally misunderstood 
Ive fully considered Ms Ms complaint to Aviva and her complaint form to this service. The 
crux of Ms Ms complaint is that her claim has been unfairly declined. But for the reasons set 
out in this decision, I dont agree.
Ms M has been certified as unwell for medical reasons but the view is incorrect and 
discriminatory. She may have a specific illness which is difficult to diagnose which includes 
many mental health conditions
I havent seen any evidence that Ms M is suffering from an illness which is difficult to 
diagnose. This would usually be apparent from the medical history or GP notes as Ms M 
would be referred for tests and investigations with no clear results or unexplained symptoms. 
In Ms Ms case, her GP notes are clear that she is suffering from stress as a result of work-
related issues. If Ms M is suffering from an illness, including mental health conditions, I 
would expect this to be noted in her medical history and forwarded to Aviva for 
consideration. If Ms M is suffering from an illness, her illness has to be severe enough to 
prevent her from carrying out the material and substantial duties of her role for the whole of 
the deferred period - and the medical evidence has to demonstrate this. 
Aviva asked selective questions during the telephone call of 2 January 2020 and failed to 
obtain all occupational health reports
Aviva accepts it could have handled this call better and has apologised, which I think is 
reasonable. It has gone on to request and review medical evidence from the deferred period 
before reaching a conclusion. It has also discussed an appeals process with Ms Ms 
employer if she remains unhappy. So there is a further route of appeal if Ms M feels there is 
further medical evidence which supports her claim. Occupational health reports are usually 
based on self-reporting but if Ms M feels they are important, she should provide them to 
Aviva for consideration.
I appreciate why Ms M is unhappy and I dont doubt that shell be unhappy with my decision. 
But I think Aviva has fairly assessed the claim against the background of the evidence Ive 
considered. And the additional points that Ms M has raised dont persuade me to direct 
Aviva to reconsider its position in relation to her work-related stress.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman