DRN-3752796
The complaint
Mr A had complained that Car Giant Limited mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a car finance agreement.
What happened
Mr A was sold the PPI at the same time as arranging the car finance at a Car Giant 
dealership in 2005.
Car Giant didnt think that the policy had been mis-sold and so it did not uphold his 
complaint. It did however offer to make a goodwill gesture to Mr A of a full refund of the cost 
of the PPI, including interest that had accrued against the premium payment during the life of 
the loan. However, it did not offer additional compensatory interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and therefore the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr A says he was led to believe that he had to take out the PPI for the car loan to be agreed 
and he therefore just signed the forms where he was told to.
Ive looked at the paperwork from the time of the sale. Theres a demands and needs 
statement that has been completed by the advisor where the answers to certain questions 
that were put to Mr A have been recorded. Mr A was asked: Would you like your 
repayments to be made if you were unable to work through accident/sickness for a set 
period? and Would you like your repayments to be made whilst you are involuntarily 
unemployed for a set period?. Mr A has answered yes to these questions. He could have 
said no if he had wanted to. It is then recorded that PPI has therefore been recommended 
and that the clients decision was to accept a policy covering life, accident/sickness and 
unemployment.
The finance agreement has a section for PPI and includes a statement saying that the 
recommended insurance is optional. Next to type required it states Gold. It also says that if 
no PPI is required to put None in the box. Mr A has said that he didnt know anything about 
the different levels of cover or what Gold cover was and therefore couldnt have chosen it. 
But the reference to Gold cover follows on from the discussion about Mr As demands and 
needs. The advisor recommended that Mr A should take out life, accident/sickness and 
unemployment cover, to which Mr A apparently agreed. That is the highest level of cover, 
hence it being Gold (as opposed to silver or bronze). So in essence, Mr A did select Gold 
cover.
Mr A has said that, just because the advisor asked him some questions doesnt mean that 
he was made aware that the policy was optional. Similarly, hes said that, just because the 
forms mention the insurance being optional, that doesnt mean that this was highlighted to 
him.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr A has said. Whilst I have no doubt that Mr A has 
provided his genuine recollection of events, the sale was a long time ago and so it is 
possible that his memory of the sale has faded somewhat. On balance, based on the 
available evidence, I consider it more likely than not that the optional nature of the PPI was 
made clear to Mr A. I think that he probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, 
even if he no longer remembers doing so.
This was an advised sale. Therefore, in recommending the policy, Car Giant needed to 
ensure that it met Mr As needs. And from what I know of Mr As circumstances at the time, 
the PPI was suitable for him.
Mr A says he wouldnt have received any sick pay from his employer. Even if he would have 
received some sick pay, the PPI would have paid out in addition to that and potentially for 
longer than Mr A would have received full pay for. Mr A has said that he had some other 
means of covering his repayments, although he hasnt specified what these were. But if he 
had savings, the PPI would have allowed him to retain these or use them to cover other 
outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. So it seems to me that Mr A had a need 
for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
Car Giant also had to provide sufficient information for Mr A to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for him. Looking at the finance agreement, the 
costs were set out clearly, including the premium price, interest, total cost and monthly cost. 
So I think that Mr A would have known what hed be paying for the PPI.
Its possible that Car Giant didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr A wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy. As I consider that Mr A had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to change his 
mind. So he is no worse off as a result of anything that Car Giant may have done wrong.
So whilst Car Giant did not mis-sell the PPI, it has nevertheless offered to refund the total 
cost of the policy to Mr A as a gesture of goodwill. That is fair.
Ill now come on to another point that Mr A has raised, which is that the policy was never set 
up and that the lender knew nothing about it. To be clear, the lender has never said that it 
had no knowledge of the policy or that it was never set up. What it has said is that it did not 
sell the policy and therefore wouldnt investigate the mis-sale complaint because it was Car 
Giants responsibility, as the actual seller, to do so. As Mr A has himself pointed out, the 
lender was able to provide Car Giant with the start and end dates of the policy and what the 
full costs were. Im satisfied that there was a policy in place that Mr A could have claimed on 
if necessary.
As I understand it, the lender has given Mr A a Plevin refund of £747.07 in relation to unfair 
commission. Mr A thinks this refund is an acceptance that there was a failure by Car Giant to 
inform the lender about the PPI. That is not the case. The lender has provided that refund 
because, when the policy was sold, the lender expected to get a high level of commission and profit shared (more than 50% of the policy premium) and so it should have told Mr A 
about that. Because the lender didnt tell them, that was unfair.  So to put that right the 
lender has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the 
PPI premium.
Car Giant has confirmed that it will still honour its goodwill offer. As Mr A has received the 
unfair commission refund from the lender, Car Giant can deduct this amount from the 
goodwill offer that it has made to him. 
My final decision
My decision is that Car Giant Limiteds goodwill offer to refund the full cost of the PPI policy 
was fair and I therefore do not uphold Mr As complaint. Car Giant Limited should pay its 
goodwill offer to Mr A now, less the amount already paid to him by the lender for unfair 
commission.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman