DRN-3870708
The complaint
Mrs T brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr T. She complains that TSB Bank plc 
didnt prevent Mr T from losing money to multiple scams.
Mrs T is being represented by Mr T1 in this complaint. As hes the main party weve been 
corresponding with on behalf of the estate, Ill refer to Mr T1 at certain points in my decision 
and call him the representative to avoid any confusion. 
What happened
Mr T lost money to an investment scam in early 2020. Over a seven-week period, he made 
four payments totalling £85,000 in connection with an investment opportunity offered by a 
firm X. His bank statements show he received interest payments totalling just over £1,300 
in April and May 2020. But then they stopped. Mr T was unable to make any withdrawals 
and correspondence between him and X show that in August 2020, he questioned if hed 
been scammed. 
In December 2020 and the beginning of January 2021, Mr T made two payments totalling 
£23,000 after a representative of X led him to believe that he could recover his initial 
investment. But this money was also lost.
Between late January and early April 2021, Mr T fell victim to a recovery scam orchestrated 
by a firm L. He sent them just over £20,000 in a series of transactions during that time. 
Mr T sadly died in June 2021. Later that year, TSB received a complaint from Mrs T about its 
failure to prevent Mr T from falling victim to multiple scams. The matter was then referred to 
our service and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The representative didnt agree 
with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to acknowledge how distressing it must have been for Mrs T and her family 
to discover that Mr T had fallen victim to several scams soon after losing him. Despite my 
natural sympathy for what has happened, I can only uphold this complaint if I find that TSB 
could have prevented the payments from being sent, or if its acts or omissions prevented the 
funds from being recovered after it was notified of the scam. 
Id like to reassure the representative and TSB that although Ive only summarised the 
background to this complaint, so not everything that happened or has been argued is set 
out, I have read and considered everything that the parties have provided in its entirety.
TSB hasnt disputed that Mr T was scammed on these occasions. For completeness, I also 
think he was scammed rather than losing money to a high-risk investment. The UK financial 
services regulator issued a warning about X in May 2020. And in September 2021, it 
imposed restrictions on another firm S which had acted as a security trustee for X and was 
mentioned by X in its correspondence with Mr T a few times. 
As for L, I havent come across any regulator warnings about it. Nor is there much 
information about it in the public domain. But based on what weve been told happened here, 
and the emails Mr T received from L  it has the hallmarks of a typical recovery scam  I 
think its more likely than not that it was also a scam company.
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which 
requires signatories to reimburse customers who are victims of scams like this one in all but 
a limited number of circumstances, doesnt apply in this case. This is because TSB isnt a 
signatory. But that code is not the full extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in 
cases such as this. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to 
protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, 
in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a 
prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses incurred by 
its customer as a result. So, Ive thought about TSBs duty of care in relation to the disputed 
transactions.
Scam 1
From the information Ive seen, the very first payment Mr T attempted to make to X triggered 
an alert on the banks systems and he phoned them to discuss it. Ive listened to the 
recording of the call. The agent asked Mr T probing questions, such as how hed heard 
about the investment opportunity and what checks hed carried out to satisfy himself that it 
was genuine. Mr T said hed put X through a scam check[er website]. The agent then 
researched X, although they can be heard misspelling the firms name. So, it isnt entirely 
clear whether the information they found online was about X. The agent said in their opinion 
they wouldnt use X as the website didnt look professional. They said they could be wrong 
and although it was Mr Ts choice, he could consider other savings options. 
I acknowledge that the agent could have questioned Mr T further  its easy to be critical with 
the benefit of hindsight  but I find that the intervention was sufficient under the 
circumstances. I consider that the call served the purpose of identifying a fraud risk and 
providing a scam warning. Although TSB had identified red flags, it still fell on Mr T to go 
away and utilise the information hed been given by the agent to check whether the 
opportunity hed been presented with was genuine before deciding to proceed. Mr T didnt 
disagree with any of the agents suggestions. Given he was seemingly receptive of the 
agents warning, engaged in the conversation, and more importantly agreed not to send the 
payment, I dont think TSB acted unreasonably in removing the restrictions on his account 
following that discussion. 
Around ten days later, Mr T made a payment to X for the same amount. The payment didnt 
flag on TSBs systems and was released. Given it had already flagged a payment to that 
payee just days earlier and had had a discussion with Mr T, Im not persuaded that it was 
unreasonable of TSB to have executed his authorised instruction on that occasion. After all, 
Mr T had been given the opportunity to check that he was dealing with a legitimate firm. 
Even if I were to make a finding that TSB ought to have paused the payment pending further 
enquiry, Im not persuaded that this would have led to a different outcome. 
I say this because I can see Mr T questioned X about its legitimacy following the first failed 
attempt and TSBs intervention. In an email he received from X, he was reassured that he 
was dealing with a genuine company. Reference was made to S, its security trustee, which X said was regulated by the UK financial services regulator. Had TSB questioned the 
payment, I think its more likely than not that Mr T would have said hed looked into X further 
and was reassured he was dealing with a genuine company. There were no regulator 
warnings about X or S at the time of the payment in question, and Ss regulatory status 
would have been confirmed had it been mentioned and had TSB looked it up. Therefore, it 
wouldnt have been unreasonable for it to have released the payment. The same goes for 
the subsequent payments to X which were made over the next few weeks. That means I 
dont think TSB could have done more to stop the payments from being sent. 
Thinking next about recovery of the funds subsequently, I can see that TSB sent a recall 
request to the beneficiary bank as soon as it became aware of the matter in November 2020. 
It doesnt appear that a response was received, even though TSB chased the beneficiary 
bank a couple of times. Notwithstanding the lack of response, there was a gap of around 
eight months between the payment dates and when TSB became aware of the scam. As the 
investigator has explained, recovery of funds would have been unlikely given that scammers 
move funds out of the beneficiary bank account very quickly as they know the sending bank 
could submit a recall request. 
Scam 2 
In November 2020, Mr T was approached by one of Xs representatives about an exit 
strategy for his investment. He could sell his shares to an interested party based overseas, 
but hed need to pay tax. Mr T attempted an international payment for around £14,000 in 
connection to this, but it was picked up by TSBs fraud detection systems and he ended up 
calling the bank to discuss it. Ive listened to the call recording, and Im satisfied that the 
agent asked sufficiently probing questions. Concerns remained despite Mr Ts answers and 
the agent warned him about investment scams and suggested he make further enquiries 
about why he was being asked to send money overseas. 
Although the block on the payment was removed at the time, the payment wasnt released. 
As TSB remained concerned, it invoked the Banking Protocol which resulted in further 
questioning and the police getting involved. According to the notes, the scam perpetrated by 
X was uncovered at this time and Mr T agreed to report the payments hed made earlier in 
the year as fraudulent. This is what led to a recall request being sent to the beneficiary bank 
(see above). 
TSB didnt completely block Mr Ts account following the intervention. But I dont think the 
steps the bank took were unfair. Mr T had acknowledged and accepted that hed fallen victim 
to a scam. So, it wasnt wholly unreasonable for the bank to have allowed him to continue 
using his account, while it attempted recovery of funds. Banks have a difficult balance to 
strike between identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks and 
allowing customers to utilise their accounts with minimal unnecessary disruptions. 
Around a month after the intervention, Mr T made a payment of £5,000 to a personal 
account. It was released without additional checks. The payee account details, and the 
amount involved, were unconnected to the previous scam payments. Looking at Mr Ts bank 
statement, the transaction amount wasnt remarkable. So, I dont consider it ought to have 
flagged as unusual on the banks system  despite the earlier intervention. The next 
payment, to the same payee, was made 14 days later. Although it was larger in value, by 
that point Mr T had made a payment to the beneficiary before and he hadnt raised any 
concerns. Having weighed up everything, Im not persuaded that TSB acted unfairly by 
executing Mr Ts authorised instructions.Thinking about recovery, it wasnt until sometime later that TSB discovered Mr T sent these 
payments in connection to the scam. As Ive explained, its unlikely that funds would have 
remained in the beneficiary account by that point. 
Scam 3     
Reading through correspondence between Mr T and the scammers, Im persuaded that he 
was keen to recover his initial investment. Hed been approached by L who offered to get his 
funds back. I can see Mr T had engaged with a recovery company in early 2020 in 
connection with a different investment (not the subject matter of this complaint). So, by the 
time hed employed L in January 2021, it wasnt the first time hed used a recovery firm. 
The first payment (of £2,150), which Mr T attempted to send to a business account, flagged 
on TSBs system and Mr T phoned the bank to discuss it. The agent asked appropriate 
questions but unlike previous interventions, Mr T wasnt honest about the reason for the 
payment. He said he was paying off his sons debt. Despite Mr Ts misleading responses, 
the agent was concerned that the payment was high risk based on where it was being sent. 
They didnt let the payment through and informed Mr T accordingly. Because of the answers 
he gave, the payment was seemingly unconnected to the scam that had been reported two 
months earlier. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable of the bank to have 
stopped at just blocking that payment and not the whole account.  
From what I can make out from the available email correspondence, Mr T informed L of what 
had happened with TSB. He was provided alternative account details  a personal account 
this time  and sent the payment the same day. Mr Ts actions suggest that he was 
desperate to make the payment regardless of TSBs earlier warning about the payee being 
high-risk. As far as the bank was concerned, Mr Ts subsequent payment wasnt made to the 
account it had concerns about. Given it wasnt that unusual for the account activity, Im not 
persuaded that TSB acted unfairly in not intervening when Mr T authorised the payment in 
question.
The subsequent payments, to the same personal account, were spread out across the next 
month and were for insignificant amounts compared to the usual account history. At the 
beginning of March 2021, the payee details changed. Again, the first transaction to the new 
payee was low in value. But as the investigator has highlighted, there were three more 
payments to that payee on the day. Although the individual amounts were low, I consider 
that multiple payments to a new payee ought to have flagged as unusual to TSB. Certainly, 
by the time Mr T authorised the fourth payment, the bank ought to have paused it pending 
further enquiry. 
But thats not the end of the matter. Causation is a critical determinative factor when 
deciding cases involving a scam. Id need to be satisfied that an intervention by the bank 
would have more likely than not stopped Mr T in his tracks. By the point Mr T had authorised 
the fourth payment to the new payee, the scammer had convinced him that he would receive 
close to £118,000, which included compensation for errors that had been made. Despite his 
own reservations for some time, Mr T had continued making payments. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr T was coached by the scammer to lie to his bank. 
But as Ive noted above, he wasnt honest with TSB when it had previously questioned a 
payment. Im not convinced he would have been forthcoming this time either. Ive kept in 
mind that just a few days later, when he enquired about increasing the amount TSB had lent 
him (we now know these were used for the scam payments), he said the funds were for 
improvements to his house. Therefore, I think its unlikely that an intervention by TSB would 
have led to it uncovering the recovery scam. TSB did subsequently restrict Mr Ts account when it came to light that hed continued 
sending payments in connection with the original scam despite the intervention in November 
2020. After Mr T explained what had happened in relation to the recovery scam, TSB raised 
a fraud claim. It attempted recovery from the beneficiary bank, only to be informed that just 
£1.41 remained in the beneficiary account for consideration. Having carefully thought about 
this, I dont think TSB could have done more in this regard.   
The representative submits that TSB didnt take account of Mr Ts vulnerability and possible 
lack of capacity. I fully recognise that he feels very strongly about this complaint. A large 
sum of money was lost to cruel scams. But I cant see that TSB was made aware of Mr Ts 
circumstances during the relevant period as put forward by the representative. And having 
listened to the call recordings, I dont think they would have been apparent either. I also 
understand the point the representatives trying to make about limiting Mr Ts access to just 
branch-based banking following the Banking Protocol being invoked. But its worth noting 
that at the end of 2020 and beginning of 2021, the country was still grappling with the Covid-
19 pandemic. Many businesses, including banks, were having to limit face to face interaction 
and adhere to social distancing rules. 
I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to the representative and 
Mrs T. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that TSB can fairly or reasonably be held 
liable to reimburse the estate of Mr T. Any failure on the banks part in relation to not spotting 
the subsequent transactions as unusual is not the dominant or effective cause of the loss 
incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman