DRN-1641190
 
The complaint
Mrs B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2001. The policy was taken out at 
the same time as Mrs B applied for an Egg credit card. It gave her accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she is certain she would never have agreed to take out PPI, it covered such a 
small amount of the balance. Mrs B applied for the PPI online. And when she applied for the 
Egg credit card online the banks applications report shows she clicked a box on the screen 
indicating she wanted to take out PPI, agreeing with the statement that by ticking the box 
she was confirming shed read and agreed to the terms and conditions of the PPI. Options to 
select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence on the screen. I know Mrs B feels 
strongly that she wouldnt have done this, but I have to reach a decision based on the 
balance of the evidence. I have thought carefully about her comments but I also have to 
consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. Overall, I 
think Canada Square Operations made it clear to Mrs B the PPI was optional, and she 
agreed to take it out. I can understand she might not remember this given how long ago the 
sale was.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B, so it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for her. It was up to Mrs B to decide whether the policy was right for her, 
bearing in mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or lost her job.
Mrs B says as the application was online the bank should have contacted her to tell her 
about the policy. But the bank did provide information online about the PPI  we have 
previously sent copies of this to Mrs B. However, I do agree its possible Canada Square 
Operations didnt give Mrs B all the information about the PPI that she needed before she 
made her decision. But Mrs B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. The policy was 
fairly priced in the market and offered a competitive benefit level. If Mrs B was sick the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, in addition to her work 
benefit of 13 weeks full pay and 13 weeks' half pay. Mrs B also said she had savings worth 
around three months salary but the PPI would have allowed her to use these for other living 
expenses whilst not working, or to have kept them intact for her future needs. Overall, I think 
it unlikely Mrs B wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided.
Mrs B asked why the bank can refund commission but not the premiums in full given its 
failings. I have explained above why I don't think Mrs B lost out because of any problems 
with the sale. However, Canada Square Operations has paid back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs B because: 
- Canada Square Operations got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because 
Canada Square Operations didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
- To put that right, Canada Square Operations has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that 
is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold 
so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs B.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman