DRN-3817312
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc blocking access to 
Ds loan funds, and about it possibly disclosing Ds confidential information to a third party.
Mr G, a director of D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf.
What happened
D had agreed a large loan facility with HSBC for the development of commercial premises. 
In May 2019, on the day when D was due to pay its first invoice to its building contractor, 
HSBC placed an inhibit on Ds loan account, blocking its access to these funds.
The directors of D also operated a franchise, which I shall call F, under an agreement with a 
franchisor, which I shall call W. In response to Ds enquiries as to why the inhibit had been 
issued, HSBC told the directors of D to speak to W. The directors were alarmed that HSBC 
had been speaking to W about Ds affairs.
The following day, D met with HSBC and the bank agreed to lift the block. This happened on 
the next day, and D paid its contractors. The planned development then continued.
D complained to HSBC, both about the inhibit being placed on its loan account, apparently 
influenced by W, and about the bank disclosing its confidential information to W. D said that 
HSBCs actions had caused the directors immense stress and Ds reputation with its 
contractors had been damaged. D said that it avoided financial penalties from the 
contractors but believes it was treated less favourably due to the delayed first payment. Mr G 
also believes it has been treated less favourably by HSBC since the incident. Mr G said that, 
at the time, everything they owned was at risk if the build did not complete and they would 
have been left in significant debt if the inhibit had not been lifted. 
HSBC reviewed what had happened. It said that, in the week prior to HSBC placing an 
inhibit on Ds account, W had independently made the bank aware of significant changes to 
Ws relationship with F. HSBC was then concerned that this could affect the viability of Ds 
plans and took the decision to block Ds access to the approved loan funds. HSBC 
apologised that, in hindsight, this was an over-reaction. It said that its process should have 
been to escalate matters to its Risk and Compliance Team before any action was taken. 
HSBC apologised to D for the inconvenience caused but noted that, as the inhibit was lifted 
within two days, D had suffered no financial harm. HSBC also confirmed that there was 
absolutely nothing to indicate that it had shared with W any confidential information relating 
to D. It said that W was clearly already aware of Ds plans and had brought the information 
about Ws relationship with F to HSBC. As far as HSBC was concerned, the timing of 
receiving the information from W and Ds planned payment to its contractor was coincidental.
Not content with this response, Mr G brought Ds complaint to our service. 
Mr G provided further evidence of meetings between HSBC and W, which appeared to have 
been arranged to discuss F. One of these meetings occurred on the day after the inhibit was 
placed on Ds account. Mr G also provided an email which appeared to indicate that W was 
aware of the inhibit being placed on Ds loan account. Mr G said that these documents 
suggested HSBC was inappropriately discussing Ds business with W.
HSBC explained that the call with W on the day subsequent to the inhibit being placed on 
Ds account was a matter between the bank and W, concerning Ws relationship with F. It did 
not relate to D. HSBC confirmed that no information about D was shared with W. HSBC said 
there was a further meeting a couple of weeks later with W also about F but, again, this did 
not concern D. HSBC was unable to explain how W was aware of the inhibit on Ds account.
Our Investigator considered Ds complaint. She said that, in her view, although the inhibit 
was swiftly removed, HSBCs over-reaction to impose the inhibit had caused D some 
inconvenience. Mr G had needed to attend an urgent meeting with HSBC on the day after 
the inhibit had been put in place to try to resolve matters, and hed needed to postpone 
payment to Ds contractors. She also acknowledged that these circumstances would have 
been very stressful for Mr G, and that Ds reputation with its building contractors would have 
been affected. However, she didnt find evidence of any financial loss to D. Therefore, she 
said that to compensate for the inconvenience, HSBC should pay D £150.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that he didnt understand how the chain of events could have 
unfolded without some disclosure of information from HSBC to W about Ds business. He 
added that getting the inhibit removed wasnt straightforward. He believed HSBCs 
description of its mistake as an over-reaction was incorrect as, in his view, it was 
completely wrong for the inhibit to be placed on the account consequent to information being 
shared with HSBC by an unrelated business. 
As the matter was not resolved, it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between D and HSBC and considered all 
the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider central 
to this complaint. There are two key issues:
Did HSBC breach its duty of confidentiality to D? In particular, did HSBC share with 
W information which was confidential to D; or did HSBC simply receive information 
from W, which W proffered to HSBC?
Did HSBC act appropriately towards D with the information it gained from W about 
Ws relationship with F?
I consider each in turn.
Breach of confidentiality
It is clear that, prior to the inhibit being placed on Ds account, representatives of HSBCs 
franchise team met with W. I have checked the purpose of this meeting and at whose 
request the meeting was set up and there is no suggestion that it had anything to do with D.
At this meeting, W shared information with HSBC about its relationship with F. W also 
demonstrated that it was aware of Ds development plans. However, there is no evidence to 
indicate that HSBC shared any information about D with W.HSBC has also confirmed that at no point did HSBCs relationship manager who considered 
Ds loan application contact W. Therefore, it is unclear how W knew of Ds development 
plans, but there is nothing to suggest that this information came from HSBC.
Given that the arrangements for the meeting between W and HSBC in mid-May 2019 had 
nothing to do with D, I am convinced that it was entirely coincidental that HSBC placed the 
inhibit on Ds account on the same day that Ds first payment to its contractors became due.
A meeting also occurred between W and HSBC on the day after the inhibit was placed on 
Ds account. This meeting was to discuss Ws relationship with F. Given the information 
which W had previously shared about its relationship with F, I do not find it surprising that a 
further meeting was scheduled. Another meeting happened a few weeks later as a further 
update. Having looked at the purpose of these meetings, it appears to me that they were 
intended for HSBC to understand what was happening between W and F. There is no 
suggestion that D was discussed, and no evidence to indicate that at these meetings HSBC 
conveyed any confidential information about D to W.
Although it appears that W might have been aware of HSBCs actions in placing the inhibit 
on Ds account, I have seen no evidence to indicate that it had this awareness as a result of 
information provided by HSBC.
On the basis of this evidence, it appears to me that HSBCs engagement with W was about 
Ws relationship with F, and not about D. It appears that W had an understanding about Ds 
plans, and possibly about HSBCs actions towards D, but there is nothing to suggest this 
information came from HSBC. Having looked carefully through the evidence available, I have 
seen nothing to suggest that Ds financing arrangements or commercial plans were shared 
at any point by HSBC with W. 
Therefore, I do not believe HSBC breached its duty of confidentiality to D.
Use of the information received by HSBC
HSBC has acknowledged that, having received information from W about Ws relationship 
with F, which it believed could affect Ds business, it should first have consulted its Risk and 
Compliance Team before putting in place the inhibit on Ds account. It has apologised for 
this. 
I have considered the effects on D of this mistake.
The immediate consequence was that D was two days late in paying its contractors. Mr G 
has said that this damaged Ds relationship with its contractors. He has also said that HSBC 
has treated D less favourably since this incident. However, I have not seen any evidence to 
demonstrate that D suffered any financial loss as a result of HSBCs mistake through either 
of these relationships. Therefore, I do not believe I can reasonably require HSBC to 
compensate D for this.
Mr G has also said that HSBCs actions put at risk his personal assets and Ds business 
proposition. However, although this was a real risk, it didnt materialise. So, again, there was 
no actual financial loss.
I do acknowledge that HSBCs mistake caused D some inconvenience, both at the time of 
having to resolve matters with HSBC to get the inhibit lifted, and subsequently in its 
relationship with its contractors given the late first payment. Our investigator has proposed 
that HSBC should pay D £150 to compensate for this inconvenience, and I believe this 
amount is fair in the circumstances.It is also clear that the events caused the directors of D some considerable stress. However, 
the complainant in this case is D, which is a company, and a company is unable to feel 
distress. Therefore, I cannot award anything to D for this; and I am unable to require HSBC 
to compensate the directors for any distress they suffered.
I am aware that this will not be the answer Mr G was hoping for. I acknowledge that he feels 
it is most likely HSBC breached Ds confidentiality but, on the basis of the evidence I have 
seen, I do not believe that is the case. While HSBC inappropriately blocked Ds account, it 
has apologised for this and there was no financial harm. Therefore, I believe the fair 
outcome of this dispute is for HSBC to compensate D for the inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay D £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman