DRN-3449293
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank Plc failed to advise him of the time limits for applying for a 
chargeback and it has resulted in him suffering financial loss.
What happened
On 22 April 2021 Mr W transferred £3400 to a third-party cryptocurrency provider using his 
debit card. He has used them previously for smaller sums. 
The provider initially said that they hadnt received the funds and later said that they had, but 
they  had sent them back and that it was a Lloyds Bank error. Mr Ws Lloyds account 
statement showed the funds had left his Lloyds account and had not been returned. Lloyds 
said they wouldnt have prevented any money from coming into his account if it had been 
sent back.  
Mr W tried to sort this out with the provider but was unable to.  
Mr W used the Lloyds chat function who advised that he should escalate it to the disputed 
payments department. However, by the time he did this, on 9 September 2021 it was past 
the 120 days limit for raising the dispute, which expired on 21 August 2021. 
Mr W says that Lloyds should have advised him of the time limit sooner as he had been in 
contact with them previously. 
Mr W complained to Lloyds about this, but in their final response they said that they were 
satisfied that they hadnt made any errors in advising him, and that they had offered to raise 
the disputed payment. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this response and so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. He thought that Lloyds had acted
in a fair and reasonable manner.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have provided me with all the mobile messaging and call recordings for Mr Ws 
contacts with them. Ive considered them along with Mr Ws testimony. 
The online chat records dont show any evidence of Mr W raising a card dispute, so I have 
listened to the five phone calls that Lloyds have provided us with.  
Of the five calls, only three relate to the payment in dispute. Two calls are on 18 May 2021 
which would have been within the time limit for making a dispute claim. In the first call, Mr W 
is explaining what has happened and the adviser tells him that he needs to raise a dispute. 
He agrees to transfer him through. Unfortunately, the call is incorrectly routed to the credit 
card disputes team, and the call handler advises Mr W that he needs to speak to the debit 
card disputes team. She tries to transfer him, but when the call is passed through, he is no 
longer on the line.
Mr W didnt call back to try and complete the registration of his dispute. There wasnt enough 
information is given during the call for the dispute to be raised on his behalf, and I think Mr W 
would have known that the dispute process hadnt been completed as he knew he needed to 
speak to the debit card team to complete it, and he hadnt done so. 
 
The third call is on 9 September, when Mr W raises the dispute but is out of time. 
 
I appreciate that Mr W says he was not advised that there was a time limit on making a 
dispute claim, but I dont think Lloyds were given the opportunity to give that advice, as Mr W 
didnt actually speak to the debit card disputes team. If he had called back there would have 
been an opportunity for him to have the process explained to him, but I think Mr W was 
aware that he hadnt spoken to the right team, and there was a gap of nearly four months 
before he made contact again. 
 
I can understand how frustrating this situation has been for Mr W and can see he has made 
efforts to sort this out with the third party and that has failed, but unfortunately he didnt raise 
the dispute in time, and I cant say Lloyds are at fault for that.
 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc, and so they dont need to to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman