DRN-2785483
The complaint
This is a complaint that Motorpoint of Derby Limited mis-sold Mr M a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement in 2005, to buy a vehicle. At the same time a 
single premium PPI policy was set up to protect the payments. The cost of the policy was 
added to the loan, and interest was charged.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr M has said he didnt want to accept the PPI when it was offered, because he wanted to 
keep payments low. But he says the adviser said his loan application might not be approved 
without it. 
If this happened, then it would have been wrong and unfair. However the problem I have, in 
making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and 
the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible 
benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as 
long as the policy is actually something worth having and it is clear the customer still has a 
choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to 
taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was 
said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Motorpoint did something wrong unless I had stronger 
evidence of this. 
Apart from this, I think the paperwork did at least present the PPI as a choice. 
It seems that Motorpoint advised Mr M to have PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time. He was eligible for the policy, 
so could potentially have made a claim. And, although Mr M would have received some 
employer sick pay, the accident and sickness benefit provided by the policy could still have 
been useful. This is because it would pay out on top off any employer sick pay and 
potentially would continue to pay out after sick pay ended. It would also pay out on top of 
any redundancy payment. And it doesnt look as though Mr M had significant other means to 
fall back on. 
Mr M appeared to have been eligible for the policy; and it seems also wouldnt have been 
affected by any significant exclusions within the policy.
Mr M would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium if the policy had been 
cancelled early. This can be an issue where a customer might pay the loan off early. But Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that this was likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy 
didnt make it unsuitable for Mr M. 
The cost of the policy was set out in the loan agreement clearly  including the amount of the 
single premium, the interest payable on the premium, and the total cost. So I think Mr M 
would have understood how much the PPI would cost. The policy also seems to have been 
affordable.
Its possible that Motorpoint didnt clearly point out what the PPI wouldnt cover  but I cant 
see that Mr M would have been significantly affected by this. 
On balance, I think Mr M wasnt mis-sold PPI by Motorpoint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman