DRN-3236783
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he bought using credit supplied by Tesco Personal
Finance PLC (Tesco), he also says the car was misrepresented to him.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr C took receipt of a used car in October 2018. He used his Tesco credit card to finance
part of the payment. At the point of supply the car had already completed a little over 96,000
miles.
Mr C made a claim to Tesco under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) (section
75). He said the car was of unsatisfactory quality as it was supplied with inadequate tyre
tread and a damaged headlight. He also said the car wasnt provided with a full-service
record as the advert claimed and that it wasnt supplied with the warranty he expected.
Tesco didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. They noted the car had passed an MOT a few months
before Mr C took receipt of it and they thought it likely that the headlight had failed at some
point after the car was supplied when they werent responsible for the cars quality. They
thought the tyre wear was most likely normal wear and tear.
Tesco have subsequently explained that the car was advertised with a full-service record
and thats what was supplied. The service book was stamped to show a service had been
completed each year. They noted that the advert suggested the car was to be supplied with
a warranty and they discussed that with the supplying dealership who explained that to
reduce the cost of the agreement Mr C had agreed to waive the warranty. They noted that
the invoice explained trade sale no warranty implied (sic).
Our investigation team didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. They agreed that there was no
evidence of faults present when the car was supplied, and they didnt agree that the service
history was incomplete as Mr C had been provided with the history from 2008 until 2018
when the car was sold to him. They noted that Mr C had suggested the car hadnt been
serviced between 2014 and 2018 but explained that the car had been serviced every 10,000
miles which was in line with the manufacturers recommendations. The investigator 
understood that Mr C suspected the stamps that had been put in the service
book were not all from registered Jaguar dealers as they claimed to be, but she didnt think
there was enough evidence to suggest there had been fraud and didnt think there was
therefore enough information to suggest the car was mis-sold.
Mr C didnt agree so he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Tesco, but I dont currently agree with the investigators opinions.
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr C made a claim through them for
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. It says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. This was an eleven-year 
old car that had completed over 96,000 miles so I think a reasonable person would expect
many components to be coming towards the end of their serviceable life and for the car to
have experienced quite a bit of wear and tear.
The car was successfully MOTd in July 2018, and I think its fair to suggest any problem
with the headlights or with tyres being below acceptable limits would have been highlighted
at that point. I think the tyre wear noted in the August 2019 MOT is most likely to be related
to normal wear and tear and I dont think theres evidence that the headlight fault was
present when the car was supplied as I can see the electrician wasnt able to confirm that.
 
So, I dont think there is evidence the car was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition.
Was the car misrepresented to Mr C?
If Mr C was given a false statement of fact and if that false statement of fact led him to enter
into an agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had
been misrepresented to Mr C and Id ask Tesco to take some further action.
I think there is evidence of misrepresentation.
Tesco have explained that the advert they were provided with says that the car comes with
a full-service history. I dont think that was the case.Ive reviewed the pages of the service book Mr C provided. The service book explains:
In order to keep your (car) running as efficiently and reliably as possible it should be
serviced once a year, or more frequently if the annual distance is particularly high it goes
on to explain that a reminder for maximum distance between services can be found in the
service interval plan and handwritten in the box below it states that the maximum service
interval is 10,000 miles.
The service history complies with that requirement until 2013. A service stamp in that year
shows the mileage as 47,4040 and the next service is in May 2014 when the cars mileage is
77,780. So, in the preceding period the car had completed 30,000 miles without service and
there should have been at least two additional services.
Theres subsequently a service stamp in September 2014 at 85,236 miles but no further
stamp until the supplying dealerships at 96,082 miles over four years later. So, there wasnt
an annual service completed in 2015, 2016 or 2017 and there should have been.
Mr C has explained that the service record was very important to him. Hes explained thats
because he was buying this vehicle as a classic car. He explained that if hed been provided
with the inadequate service history at the point of sale he wouldnt have proceeded with the
deal. I understand Mr Cs trade in car was a Rolls Royce and I can see he completed a very
low mileage in the replacement vehicle. I think thats in line with what Mr C has told us, Im
persuaded he was interested in keeping the car in classic condition and the service record
would have been critical. I dont think Mr C would have agreed to the sale if hed known the
service history wasnt full.
Mr C has also explained that he thinks the dealerships stamp is fraudulent as he believes
they werent Jaguar approved but they have used the Jaguar logo. Ill make no further
comment on that at the moment as I am not currently persuaded sufficient information has
been provided to demonstrate that was likely and Im persuaded, for the reasons Ive already
given, that the car was misrepresented to Mr C.
Mr C has provided an invoice that shows an oil service was completed on the car on the day
it was sold to him. He says the dealership shouldnt have stamped the service book as by
stamping it they had suggested they had completed the service to the manufacturers
standards, and they hadnt. That seems a persuasive argument. The previous service had
been completed more than four years earlier so I think its reasonable to expect the next
service would be a major one and not simply an oil service. Im persuaded thats another
reason why this car was misrepresented to Mr C.
I can also see that Mr C is upset the car didnt come with a warranty. The dealership have
explained that the price was reduced on acceptance that a warranty wouldnt be provided. 
Im not considering that aspect of Mr Cs complaint any further as I am already persuaded
the car has been misrepresented and to consider the warranty further is therefore
unnecessary.
Putting things right
When theres been a misrepresentation our usual approach is to try to put the consumer
back in the position they would have been in had the misrepresentation not have taken
place.
That often means well ask a business to take the car and sell it and provide a partial refund
to the consumer whilst retaining some of the proceeds of the sale in compensation for the
use the consumer has had from the vehicle. But thats not possible here as Mr C sold the carin 2020.
I think the most reasonable solution would be to tell Tesco to pay Mr C a sum of money to
compensate him for the misrepresentation. So, Ive thought about how much that should be.
Mr C sold the car at the beginning of February 2020 for £6,750 when it had completed about
96,052 miles.
Ive looked at CAP valuations for the car if sold in February 2020. They give the following
values:
CAP clean: £6,525
CAP average: £6,025
CAP below average: £5,550
It seems Mr C managed to get a good price for his car as he received more than the CAP
clean valuation even without a full-service history.
But I dont think the amount the dealership was prepared to pay him was a reasonable
valuation of what the cars true value was. Thats because I can see the car was part
exchanged and the part exchange value could have been inflated by the dealership so they
could secure a deal with Mr C.
I think the best valuation of what the vehicle was worth in February 2020 are the CAP
valuations and Im prepared to accept that without a full-service history the car was likely to
be valued as below average at £5,550. If the car had a full-service history, however; Im
persuaded it would have been likely to attain a valuation at the clean end of the CAP figures
at £6,525.
That suggests the loss in value Mr C has experienced as a result of the misrepresentation is
about £975.
Mr C says Tesco should pay him the difference between what he paid for the car in 2018
and what he received for it in 2020. Im not persuaded that difference is entirely due to the
missing service records. A clean CAP valuation when Mr C bought the car in 2018 was
£9,425 and in February 2020 that valuation had dropped to £6,525. So, Im persuaded that
much of the reduction in value was depreciation and thats not something it would be fair to
hold Tesco accountable for.
But I think the misrepresentation also had an impact on the use Mr C had from the car. Hes
explained that he barely used the car as he was concerned it would have an impact on his
claim for misrepresentation. Hes also been inconvenienced by these issues as hes had to 
escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. Its
taken quite a time to resolve matters and I think that would have been distressing for Mr C.
Taking all of those issues into account I think Tesco should pay Mr C a further £500 in
respect of the lack of use and distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Tesco
Personal Finance PLC to:
Pay Mr C £975 in respect of the loss of value hes experienced because of the
misrepresentation.
Pay Mr C a further £500 to compensate him for the loss of use he had from the car
and the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr C and Tesco provided some additional commentary for me to consider.
Mr C provided a detailed explanation of how he believed he had been conned by the 
salesman to accept the car. Within that information he explained that it was clear hed been 
offered a car with a full manufacturers history and that wasnt the case as thered been no 
regular servicing since 2013. He insisted that the car had come with a warranty but when he 
received the paperwork the seller had written on it that there wasnt one. He also explained 
that hed been told the car was supplied with a cherished number plate worth in the region of 
£1,500 and he'd later established that wasnt true either and that some of the keys for the 
car hadnt worked. 
Tesco didnt entirely agree with my provisional decision. They accepted there was evidence 
the car had been misrepresented because they accepted the service records werent 
complete. But they disputed whether Mr C wouldnt have gone ahead with the deal had he 
known the records were incomplete. They agreed with the way I had calculated £975 for loss 
of value but they thought the £500 for distress, inconvenience and loss of use was excessive 
as they didnt think there was evidence of any loss of use. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr C for providing some further background about the sales process. I 
understand his assertion that the car came with a warranty but without further evidence to 
the contrary Im not able to suggest the statement made on the invoice, that there was no 
warranty, is inaccurate. And, regardless, as Ive explained, Im persuaded that the car was 
misrepresented to him anyway, but for other reasons. Ive not been provided with enough 
information to support Mr Cs assertions that the keys were broken or there was a promise 
the number plate was valuable but I have been provided with enough information to suggest 
the car was misrepresented to him as the service records were clearly not full.
I am still of the opinion that Mr C wouldnt have gone ahead with the deal had he known 
about the lack of a full-service history. I think he was interested in keeping the car in classic 
condition and the service record would have been critical.
I understand Tescos concerns about the level of compensation I suggested. The contention 
is that there was no lack of use as Mr C would have been trying to limit any mileage on the 
car as it was being kept in a classic condition. Whilst I accept there may be some truth in 
that statement I do feel the use Mr C had from the car was below what would be expected 
even for a car that was being kept in a classic condition. Im persuaded that together with a 
payment for the distress and inconvenience caused, £500 is sufficient.
   
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional evidence thats led me to change my provisional 
decision. That provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to:
Pay Mr C £975 in respect of the loss of value hes experienced because of the
misrepresentation.Pay Mr C a further £500 to compensate him for the loss of use he had from the car
and the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman