DRN-2662267
The complaint
Ms P complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) discontinued a point reward scheme without giving 
her reasonable notice.
What happened
Ms P says she had been collecting points with a reward scheme offered in conjunction with 
her Lloyds credit card account for many years and had accrued a substantial amount of 
points. In October 2019 she received a letter from Lloyds explaining the reward scheme was 
changing in December 2019 to a cashback reward instead. The points she had 
accumulated, would need to be redeemed either by the beginning of December 2019, if 
accrued prior to September 2019, and late January 2020 if accrued afterwards. Ms P says 
she wasnt given a sufficient amount of time to redeem her points and the notice Lloyds gave 
was outside the terms and conditions of the reward scheme.
Lloyds agree they only gave three months-notice of the withdrawal of the scheme but in 
recompense gave Ms P an additional three-month cashback of 12% on her credit card 
spending in addition to the 0.5% offered by the new cashback scheme. Lloyds also paid Ms 
P £100 compensation for the service issues she experienced when making her complaint. 
Ms P wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but did not uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt while Lloyds had not given the full six-month notice of the withdrawal of the 
points scheme, they had given Ms P an additional 12% cashback on her credit card 
spending. The investigator says, this was in addition to the 0.5% the scheme normally 
offered. Lloyds also paid Ms P £100 for the service issues she experienced when lodging 
her complaint with them which the investigator felt was fair. 
Ms P didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how I 
have come to my decision.
I can understand that it would be upsetting and frustrating for Ms P to discover her reward 
scheme was changing, leaving her a short space of time to use the accumulated points she 
had earned. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Lloyds adequately 
compensated Ms P when they withdrew the points reward scheme she had previously 
enjoyed. 
What happened here is Lloyds offered a points reward scheme in conjunction with spending 
on Ms Ps credit card account. The accrued points could then be used to purchase partner 
shopping vouchers at a discounted rate of 10%. Ms P says she had accumulated 
considerable reward points over a number of years. She says the notice period given by 
Lloyds not only made it very difficult for her to make use of the reward points in the 
remaining time she was given, but Lloyds hadnt given the required notice period when they 
withdrew the existing scheme. Ms P feels the amount offered to her of an additional three 
months 12% cashback for purchases using her credit card wasnt anywhere near the value 
she had accrued under the previous reward scheme and Lloyds offer needs to be improved. 
I understand the issues Ms P has raised here and the first thing to say is Lloyds have 
accepted they only gave three months-notice rather than six months as their scheme terms 
and conditions suggest. By way of compensation Lloyds offered Ms P an additional three 
months cashback of 12% in addition to the 0.5% the new scheme now offered. Its worth 
mentioning under section 2 (f) of the scheme conditions it says: Points cannot be redeemed 
for cash, sold or otherwise disposed of in other words the points arent of any cash value 
but an opportunity for Ms P to make use of the 10% discount on purchases if she chose to 
take up the option. From what I have seen Ms P seems to have saved these points over 
many years and by doing so didnt take full advantage of using the discounts available to her 
during this time. I say this because, Ms P has said Lloyds have restricted her opportunity to 
use these points by only giving her three months-notice rather than six. I understand this, but 
based on what Ive seen,  for Ms P to have made full use of the card points in that space of 
time, would have meant her spending tens of thousands of pounds. By her own admission 
this is more than she could have possibly spent over the remaining time available to her and 
given the limit available to her on her credit card. 
While Ms P says Lloyds have been unreasonable in withdrawing the scheme with little time 
for her to spend the points she had accumulated, under the terms of the scheme Lloyds can 
vary or change the terms of the scheme as they wish. So, considering this, I cant hold 
Lloyds responsible for the fact, Ms P made the decision not to use the points she had 
accumulated for whatever reason that may have been. 
Having said that, like the investigator I agree Lloyds could have given Ms P more notice in 
line with the terms of the scheme. Lloyds have offered in addition to the new cashback 
arrangement, an additional 12% cashback for any purchases Ms P made for the following 
three months. I am satisfied that Lloyds have offered this to put right the three months-notice 
period, but they have not accepted the monetary value Ms P believed the points were worth, 
as the points have no cash value. 
What has happened here is Ms P has lost out on the opportunity to use the points she 
accumulated on her credit card to obtain 10% discounts at certain stores. That said, the 
decision not to have made use of these points in the past, wasnt something I can say is due 
to anything Lloyds have done here, Ms P made that choice herself. Its unfortunate the 
scheme has now been withdrawn and while more notice could have been given by Lloyds, 
for the reasons I have stated before, it was not likely that Ms P would have been able to 
have used the accumulated points whether it had given three or six months-notice. I can see 
Lloyds offered Ms P an improved reward for the missed three months-notice and I am 
satisfied this is reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Lloyds also offered Ms P £100 
in compensation for poor customer service when handling her complaint and again I am 
satisfied this is reasonable .
While Ms P will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Lloyds here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman