DRN-3645675
The complaint
U, a limited company, complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt address its issue with 
accessing an account online.
What happened
U contacted Shawbrook Bank on 31 March 2021 to report that it couldnt access its account. 
Access wasnt arranged until 7 July 2021. It wants compensation and says that the director 
called ten to twenty times and that this delayed providing information to its accountant. 
Shawbrook Bank said that when U had applied for the account it hadnt been set up correctly 
as a record had been manually added to its database twice. This wasnt discovered during 
its initial review of the issue. It had now been resolved. Shawbrook Bank said it offered £100 
in compensation in July 2021 when it issued a final response to the complaint. It then paid 
this to U on 7 October 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Shawbrook Bank do anything further. U was a 
separate legal entity which couldnt suffer distress. And we couldnt consider the personal 
position of the director. U had been able to use the account prior to 31 March 2021. And 
Shawbrook had provided a tax statement and account statements by email when U asked 
during the period. There was no evidence of any financial loss.
U didnt agree, and its director stated that it wanted at least £1,000 to reflect the time spent 
on this, the problems with access and the challenges when operating the account. U wanted 
to know how the compensation had been assessed and why it was only £100. U asked that 
an ombudsman look into everything.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 July 2022. I set out below what I said.
Shawbrook Bank doesnt dispute that an error was made and not discovered for over three 
months after it was reported. And that the director of U contacted it regularly. That was both 
to follow up on the access to the account but also to request a tax statement, balances and 
then statements. None of that should have been necessary.
I agreed with our investigator that we cant consider any distress for the director as this is a 
complaint about a separate legal entity. And that there is no evidence of financial loss. U 
acted to mitigate the impact as Id reasonably expect it to do. But I asked Shawbrook Bank, 
through our investigator, whether it would consider increasing the amount of compensation 
for the inconvenience over the period. 
I didnt get a response and I needed to decide what the appropriate amount of compensation 
is. We provide informal dispute resolution. We dont typically make awards for units of time 
or use professional rates. We publish guidance about compensation, and Id looked at that. 
What is reasonable is a matter for my judgement taking into account all the relevant 
circumstances. The factors that led me to increase compensation are the length of time this 
matter was outstanding and the resultant need for U to contact Shawbrook for specific 
information about its account on several occasions. I considered that the appropriate amount 
of compensation for what happened is £200  an increase of £100 to what has already been 
paid. I appreciated that this is less than the director wants.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook stated that it accepted my decision. U said it didnt have any further comments. 
That being the case I see no reason to depart from the conclusions of my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay U a 
further £100 making a total of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman