DRN-1877894
The complaint
Ms G complains about a non sterling transaction fee on her credit card with American 
Express Services Europe Limited. 
What happened
Whilst abroad Ms G found herself having to use her credit card to pay for hospital fees. She 
says she was charged a non sterling transaction fee of £79.38 on top of the payment she 
made to the hospital, and she feels this is unfair.
Ms G complained to American Express that she wasn't made aware of the total charge when 
making the transaction and she thought it was capped. She also complained that the charge 
is higher than other credit providers.
American Express looked into the complaint but didn't uphold it. it said that the 2.99% fee is 
clearly stated in the terms and conditions of the card. It also said that the charge was listed 
on Ms G's monthly statements and its clear in that its not capped. American Express went 
on to say that all credit providers will have different charging structures. As Ms G remained 
unhappy - she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn't find it should be upheld. He said that the 
statements clearly show the transaction fee that will be charged. He went on to say that Ms 
G regularly used her card aboard for these types of transactions and she had paid the fee 
several times before. He lastly said that Ms G could have checked with American Express 
show much the fee would be before making the payment. 
As Ms G didn't agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me to issue 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When investigating this complaint I've firstly looked at the terms and conditions that were 
communicated when Ms G took out her credit card. I've found it clearly states in the T&C's 
that there would be a non-sterling fee of 2.99% for foreign transactions. When reviewing this 
term I also cant see any information that shows its capped. So it follows that I don't find 
American Express have treated Ms G unfairly when they have charged her for the 
transaction she made.
On the back of the American Express statements it's also clearly stated that customers will 
be charged 2.99% of the amount paid after they have converted a transaction into pounds
sterling. These statements are produced monthly and American Express have correctly 
highlighted that this wasn't the first non-sterling fee Ms G had paid. So I find it most likely Ms 
G was aware of the fee and the potential cost when using her card abroad. 
I understand Ms G has said that the charges are high compared to other cards American 
Express and other credit providers offer - but the role of our service is to look at how 
fairly those charges are applied. Our service doesn't have a free hand to regulate how 
businesses set their rates. What we can look at is whether these charges were bought to Ms 
G's attention when she took the card - and based on the terms and conditions, Im satisfied 
they were.
Ms G has said that the total cost of the charge wasn't made clear at the point she made the 
transaction. What Ms G is highlighting here is a potential complaint about how the payment 
terminal separates the cost and this isn't something American Express would have any 
influence over - so I can't hold it responsible for this complaint point. Having said that, 
American Express had made the rate Ms G would be charged available and she could have 
calculated the cost based on the amount of the bill. 
Having considered all of the information from both parties carefully, I don't find American 
Express have acted unfairly in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman