DRN-3758485
The complaint
E, a partnership complains that the way in which HSBC UK Bank Plc handled the closure of 
its business bank account led to reputational damage.
E wants HSBC to pay its legal costs, pay money back to two of its clients, compensate it for 
reputational damage and provide an apology.
E is represented in this complaint by a partner, Mr B.
What happened
In 2021, HSBC carried out a safeguarding exercise with E. After HSBC didnt receive all the 
required information from E, HSBC told E in a letter of 10 August 2021, that its account 
would be closed. E then provided further information to HSBC. This meant that HSBC 
cancelled the closure notice and Es account remained open.
E wrote to HSBC on 16 September 2021 to say that its account was now closed and there 
should be no more transactions in or out of the account. E asked HSBC to refund the 
commercial card fee that it had charged.
HSBC wrote to E on 28 September 2021 explaining that it had closed the commercial card 
account and refunded the fee but that it couldnt close Es business bank account as there 
was a small credit balance and a credit was due  to arrive in the account the next day. HSBC 
explained how E could close the account so HSBC could pay out the credit balance.
In October and November 2021, two of Es clients mistakenly paid money into Es HSBC 
account. 
Es position is that its contract with HSBC to provide banking services ended on 8 
September 2021, so after this date HSBC had no authority to operate Es account. E thinks 
that HSBCs letter of 10 August 2021 was unambiguous and that someone at the bank 
decided not to comply with the letter. E points out that HSBC then ignored its letter of 16 
September 2021 asking it to make sure no further debits or credits were applied to the 
account. 
E says it told customers that it had closed its account with HSBC. But two of Es customers 
mistakenly paid money into its HSBC account. E says it told its customers they should 
reclaim the payments from HSBC but HSBC refused and said that E had received the 
money.
E says that no award of compensation will be satisfactory without a letter of apology from 
HSBC so that it can help repair the reputational damage caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I dont think its particularly useful to debate the rights and wrongs of the safeguarding 
process that HSBC undertook which ultimately led to the closure notice of 10 August 2021. 
Although E thinks that by sending the letter of 10 August that HSBC would close its account 
from 8 September 2021, this didnt happen because HSBC was able to complete the 
safeguarding process. The closure notice gave E the opportunity to avoid the accounts being 
closed  and this is what happened after E visited the branch and supplied additional 
information. So, I cant find that HSBC was wrong to leave Es accounts open at this point. 
I appreciate that E doesnt feel it gave any new information to HSBC in branch to have 
allowed the safeguarding process to complete. But it does appear that in early August 2021, 
HSBC told Mr B that, due to failing security, he would need to take some identification to a 
branch. On 16 August 2021, Mr B visited a branch of HSBC with his passport and confirmed 
the details of Es partnership. So, it seems likely that HSBC was given further information to 
conclude the safeguarding process. And that this meant HSBC no longer needed to close 
Es account in line with the closure notice of 10 August 2021. 
Its unfortunate that HSBC didnt confirm to E sooner that the safeguarding process had 
been completed. But I consider HSBCs offer to pay E £150 adequately reflects the impact 
any administrative failings may have had on E. As E was able to access its business bank 
account online at the end of September 2021, I think it shouldve been aware the account 
remained open.
After Mr B wrote to HSBC on 16 September 2021 to say E had put alternative arrangements 
in place and that there should be no transactions to or from the account from 8 September 
2021, HSBC treated this as a complaint. It sent a final response to E on 28 September 2021. 
This letter explained that as the safeguarding review had been completed, Es accounts had 
remained open. 
In the same letter, HSBC told E that it had closed the commercial card account and refunded 
the annual fee  this seems fair. HSBC explained that it couldnt close Es business bank 
account as it was in credit and was due to receive a credit the next day. Again, I dont 
consider it was unreasonable for HSBC to say this, particularly as it also explained what 
steps E should take to close the account once the incoming credit had been received. 
I understand that Mr B says E didnt receive HSBCs letter of 28 September 2021 but Im 
satisfied that it was sent to the address E gave to us on its complaint form. I cant blame 
HSBC for any failure in the postal service. And I dont consider this makes HSBCs letter an 
internal memorandum as Mr B suggests. 
I want to touch on a point that Mr B has made about never having requested that Es 
account be closed. I agree that Mr B didnt ask HSBC to close Es accounts. Instead Mr B 
was simply confirming his understanding of the situation outlined in HSBCs closure notice of 
10 August 2021. But for all the reasons Ive set out above, the closure by HSBC didnt 
happen. So, any subsequent closure of Es accounts would have to be done at Es request 
in line with the terms of Es business account  including paying out anything thats left in Es 
account. Although Mr B refers to clause 29 of the business account terms and conditions, 
that version was replaced by new terms which came into effect in May 2021. 
Im sorry to hear about the reputational difficulties that E has faced after clients were able to 
pay money into the HSBC account. E has accused HSBC of misappropriating money from its clients and refusing to refund to them. But it isnt the case that HSBC collected money 
from Es clients  rather that Es clients mistakenly paid money into the account, despite 
having been asked to make payments to Es new bank account. As Es account was still 
open, I wouldnt have expected HSBC to prevent the payments being received or to return 
them to the original payers without further instructions from E.
If it hasnt already done so, I leave it with E to decide whether to provide HSBC with details 
of where to transfer the money in its account so that it can be closed. As I dont find HSBC 
made a mistake when it left Es account open, I dont require HSBC to apologise to E or to 
pay any compensation for any alleged reputational damage. Im satisfied that HSBCs offer 
to pay E £150 for any failings in customer service is fair. Finally, I appreciate that E 
instructed solicitors to help resolve its complaint but that was its choice so I dont make any 
award to cover its legal costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made an offer which I think is fair. So, my 
decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay E £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman