DRN-4493055
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt provided him with the correct cashback 
on his credit card.
What happened
Mr S opened a cashback credit card account with Barclays in 2007. He says he should 
receive 1.5% cashback on supermarket spending and 0.5% cashback of his other spending. 
However, when he looked through his statements, he found he hadnt received this.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said having reviewed the account terms and the 
other information provided it didnt appear that Mr S had received the cashback he should 
have. He said that Barclays should pay Mr S 1.5% for applicable transactions that took place 
in the months in question, and 0.5% for other transactions carried out, as noted on Mr Ss 
statements.
Barclays didnt accept our investigators view and said that further information would be 
provided. However as this wasnt received, this case has been passed to me an ombudsman 
to issue a decision.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below.
Having looked through the evidence it appears that Mr S has raised concerns about the 
cashback he received in May 2019, November 2022, January 2023 and February 2023. I 
have gone through the transactions on these statements, and this suggests that while it 
wasnt fully detailed on the statements cashback seems to have been paid in each case.
However, this appears to be subject to a cap of £15 for both Mr Ss general spending (paid 
at a rate of 0.5%) and his supermarket spending (paid at a rate of 1.5%).
We requested further details of any cap that was in place and Barclays said it couldnt 
determine why a cap had been applied suggesting it was possibly linked to the spend 
criteria. It said that Mr S could check any missing cashback by submitting a missing 
cashback form and provided details of where to access this. It said that Mr Ss cashback 
would then be looked at and if the correct amount of cashback hadnt been awarded this 
would be applied to his account.
In this case I think that Mr S has raised reasonable concerns about the cashback he has 
received, and I do not find that Barclays has provided the service it should have in 
responding to these concerns. Mr Ss statements didnt detail the full cashback provided 
which resulted in Mr Ss concerns that cashback wasnt being paid. And while it appears that 
a cap has been applied to the cashback payments, Barclays hasnt been able to provide any 
further details of this. Because of this it is still unclear as to whether or not Mr S has been 
provided the correct amount of cashback and if so, whether he was made reasonably aware 
that his cashback would be capped. Because of this I find that Mr S has been caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and I think that Barclays should pay him £100 
compensation because of this.
Barclays has provided details of how Mr S can have his specific cashback claims 
investigated to assess whether the correct amounts have been paid. While this is an 
additional task for Mr S to undertake, I find that he should do this if he wishes to get further 
confirmation of the amounts he is due.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision. He said that he had sent statements which 
showed that no cashback was paid. He didnt think that £100 compensation was sufficient 
and said his cashback would be more than this.
Barclays provided further evidence of the cashback terms. These included a term saying:
A maximum of £15 of cashback may be earned for petrol and supermarket purchases each 
month (statement) and a maximum of £15 of cashback may be earned for all other 
purchases each month (statement). 
Barclays said that this information would have been provided at account opening as part of 
the welcome pack. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is concerned that I havent considered the statements he provided. I can confirm I 
looked at these but as I said in my provisional decision while the statements didnt always 
record the cashback, looking at the account information it does appear that the cashback 
had been applied. 
As part of our initial investigation Barclays didnt provide evidence to support there being a 
cap on the cashback payments. In response to my provisional decision Barclays provided 
details of the cashback terms for Mr Ss account which said that a maximum of £15 
cashback could be earned for each of the supermarket / petrol spending and other 
purchases. Barclays said that this information would have been provided when Mr S opened 
his account.
In my provisional decision I said that it was unclear whether Mr S had been provided the 
correct cashback amount or whether he was made reasonably aware that his cashback 
would be capped. While Barclays has now confirmed that the cap had been applied 
correctly, I still find that its service in regard to providing Mr S with the information he needed 
to understand the situation with his cashback hasnt been as it should have been. I raised 
this with Barclays. 
Barclays said that Mr Ss initial complaint was that he hadnt received cashback which it 
evidenced as not being true and that the issue of the cap was raised later which it had also 
provided support of. It didnt think it had caused Mr S any inconvenience or delay and so 
didnt think that compensation should be paid.
I have noted Barclays comments, but I also note that Mr Ss initial complaint was about the 
correct amount of cashback not being applied to his account. Mr S provided copies of his 
account statements for specific months where the cashback isnt noted which is why he 
raised his concern. He called Barclays and then received a letter saying his complaint had 
been resolved which he didnt agree was the case. He referred his complaint to this service and after further investigation it was established that cashback did appear to have been paid 
but subject to a cap. This was raised with Barclays. Barclays initially said it couldnt 
determine why a cap had been applied. So, while I accept that Barclays has now provided 
evidence to support a cap being in place, I find that it hasnt provided the service it should 
have in response to the concerns raised by Mr S about his cashback. This has caused 
unnecessary delay and upset for Mr S while he has been trying to understand the situation 
on his account and whether he has received the money he should have. 
Based on the above, I find it fair that Mr S is paid £100 for the upset and inconvenience he 
has been caused while trying to understand the situation with his cashback. I understand 
that Mr S feels a higher amount should be awarded but, in this case, given the cashback 
appears to have been applied correctly to Mr Ss account the compensation is for the service 
he has received, and I find this a reasonable amount. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience he has been caused when dealing with Mr Ss concerns about his cashback. 
My final decision  
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should take the 
action set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman