DRN-2910741
The complaint
Mr S complains that the loan he had from Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat.co.uk) 
was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr S borrowed £300 from Cashfloat on 22 February 2021. The loan was to be repaid by 
three monthly instalments, the largest of which was £147.70. The final instalment was due 
on 21 May 2021, but Mr S repaid the loan early on 1 April 2021.
Mr S says he was in financial difficulties when he applied for the loan. He says he was on a 
zero hours contract and that Cashfloat didnt ask for proof of income. He says he was able to 
pay back the principal with a holiday bonus but asked Cashfloat to waive the interest. Mr S 
says Cashfloat refused his request and, following its final response, he repaid the balance 
because the interest was increasing daily. He adds that had he not had the holiday money, 
he would have had to miss payments on priority bills to repay the loan.
Cashfloat says it conducted a full affordability and creditworthiness assessment. It says that, 
based on Mr Ss declared income and expenditure, his living arrangements and its own 
checks, it found the repayments were affordable to Mr S.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks and that there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate Mr S was struggling to manage his money or that the repayments 
were unsustainable.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that his credit file would have shown he was in arrears 
on a loan for which hed had to set up a repayment plan, and that he had two credit cards at 
their credit limit. He adds that hed also made several other credit applications in the last 12 
months and wanted his complaint reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer including:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be indicate a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
When Mr S applied for his loan, Cashfloat asked him about his income and expenditure and 
checked his credit file. I have seen the results of Cashfloats credit check and it shows:
Mr S had taken out two loans in the previous month for which the combined monthly 
repayments were £238;
Hed also opened three mail order accounts since August 2020 - two had a combined 
balance of £458 and a combined credit limit of £1.000. The third had a zero balance;
Mr Ss credit card had a balance of £250 and a credit limit of £500;
Mr S was on a repayment plan for a loan hed taken out in October 2019.
In summary, Mr S was making his repayments on time and was well within in his credit limits 
on the credit card and mail order accounts. I accept hed had problems making the scheduled repayments on the 2019 loan but hed now agreed to repay £5 per month towards 
this and there were no other indications that Mr S was struggling to manage his money.
When Cashfloat asked Mr S about his income and expenditure, he said his income was 
£1,200 with expenditure on loans of £150 and travel of £80. Cashfloat says it verified with 
external date sources that Mr Ss declared income matched what was going into his bank 
account. It was also satisfied that his declared expenditure was realistic given he lived with 
his parents.
Based on what the credit check showed, I can see that Mr S had understated his credit 
expenditure and that his minimum monthly credit commitment was probably nearer £280 per 
month. But that still gave him a disposable income of over £800 per month.
Im satisfied Cashfloats checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the loan  it was 
Mr Ss first loan, the monthly repayments were only around 12% of his income and his 
disposable income, including existing credit commitments, indicated the repayments were 
sustainably affordable for the three-month term.
I acknowledge Mr S repaid the £300 principal on 15 March 2021, but based on the above, I 
cant conclude Cashfloat was obliged to write off the associated interest. Cashfloat was 
entitled to add interest to the outstanding balance on a daily basis and, by repaying the 
remaining loan on 1 April 2021, Mr S saved almost £84 in interest compared with the original 
scheduled interest charge.
So I cant conclude there was anything in the available information to show Mr S was 
struggling to manage his money, or that Cashfloat should carry out further checks. I consider 
the checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the lending and I find it was 
reasonable for Cashfloat to find the loan was affordable and that it made a fair lending 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman