DRN-3739378
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy shes been charged £2,658.38 for advice from an adviser with Alexander 
House Financial Planning Limited (Alexander House) when she didnt accept the 
recommendations.  
Alexander House is an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Limited (Quilter). Quilter 
is responsible for the advice given. 
What happened
In brief, Mrs W met with the adviser on 31 July 2021. She signed an Authority to Proceed 
(ATP) to confirm shed received and reviewed the literature listed, which included Terms of 
Business (TOB). After reviewing Mrs Ws existing pension provision the adviser presented 
his recommendations at a second meeting on 9 October 2021. He recommended that Mrs W 
transfer most of her existing pension plans to a Quilter Collective Retirement Account (CRA). 
Mrs W was unsure and the adviser made some further recommendations. In the end Mrs W 
didnt accept the recommendations and she didnt switch any of her existing pension 
arrangements. 
The adviser told Mrs W shed have to pay for the advice and work carried out. At first he 
indicated the full fee was due but on 20 October 2021 he confirmed only 75% was payable. 
Mrs W told the adviser she wasnt prepared to pay that. On 21 October 2021 the adviser 
sent his invoice for £2,658.38. Mrs W wasnt happy about the service shed received and 
complained. 
Quilter didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter dated 29 November 2021 
Quilter made a number of points, including: 
By signing section A of the ATP Mrs W confirmed shed received and reviewed the 
TOB. The adviser wouldve explained the document during the meeting and that the 
initial fee was 4% of the amount transferred (if less than £250,000 in total). Mrs W 
may have considered what he said was vague but he didnt know then the exact 
amount to be transferred. 
The TOB says, on page 8, that at Stage 4 (the stage Mrs W had reached), 75% of 
the agreed fees will be invoiced. It was unclear if the TOB document was left with 
Mrs W but in any event it was emailed to her later that day so she couldve queried it. 
There was also a WhatsApp exchange where Mrs W questioned if the initial charge 
was a one off or annual fee. The adviser confirmed it was the former. And he said all 
the fees and charges were in the TOB, adding please review for your peace of mind.
Quilter maintained that the initial and further recommendations were suitable and met 
Mrs Ws requirements as a balanced investor looking for active management and 
consolidation. Both recommendations had been pre-approved by the Compliance 
Quality Assurance Team. There was no evidence of any pressure on Mrs W to make 
a final decision. Shed been given over a week to review matters and ultimately 
decided against taking any action. 
The adviser had initially mistakenly thought the whole fee was due but he quickly 
communicated the correct position. He was unfamiliar with the position as it wasnt 
something he frequently experienced. Hed done a considerable amount of work, 
research and analysis. He hadnt acted unprofessionally or provided poor advice. 
Hed correctly followed all procedures and after conducting due diligence hed made 
a suitable recommendation in line with Mrs Ws circumstances and requirements. 
Quilter asked Mrs W to settle the outstanding invoice. 
On 9 December 2021 solicitors instructed by Alexander House sent a Pre-Action Protocol for 
Debt Claims letter to Mrs W requesting payment of the invoice. Mrs W paid the amount due 
on a without prejudice basis. 
Mrs W asked us to look into what had happened. Amongst other things she told us she was 
initially contacted by the adviser in late 2020 after making an on line pension enquiry. Mrs W 
didnt go ahead then but she contacted the representative again in July 2021 because she 
wanted tax advice. At the meeting on 31 July 2021 the adviser said he could only help with 
pensions. Mrs Ws existing pension plans were discussed. Mrs W said shed welcome the 
opportunity to consolidate them but only if that was sensible and one fund was better than 
her existing funds. 
Mrs W said the adviser didnt tell her about staged fees. He emailed the TOB the same day 
but she didnt have any reason to think the fees would be any different from what had been 
discussed. She did query the 4% initial fee. Although the adviser referred to the TOB he 
didnt mention the staged fees. 
When the adviser presented his recommendations Mrs W was confused as it was all about 
consolidating her funds  shed made it clear shed only do that if it made sense. She didnt 
feel the report contained sufficient information about how her existing pension funds were 
doing compared with the fund recommended. When she read the report she found that fund 
had much higher charges and hadnt performed as well as her existing funds. And the 
illustration showed that, because of the charges, the fund at retirement would be significantly 
reduced. Mrs W says the adviser later called and texted her multiple times to try to get her to 
agree to the recommendations. She says it all led to her losing faith in the adviser and telling 
him she no longer wanted him to act for her.  
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ws complaint. In summary, he agreed Mrs W had 
been provided with the Guide to Our Services and TOB documents. The latter said, on 
page 8 under the heading, Cancellation of Advice Process after Initial Engagement, if the 
adviser was asked to stop work after the client had agreed to the fees, the client would be 
invoiced as set out, depending on what stage had been reached. Stage 4 was where the 
adviser had presented his recommendations but before starting implementation. 75% of the 
agreed fees (subject to a minimum of £500) were payable. 
At a meeting on 31 July 2021 Mrs W had signed a declaration to confirm shed read and 
reviewed the documents provided. And the adviser had sent an email after the meeting with 
a copy of the TOB. On 6 August 2021 Mrs W had raised a query about the initial charge so it 
seemed shed read what was said about charges. The investigator thought, even if the 
charges if Mrs W decided not to proceed with the recommendation hadnt been explicitly 
discussed during the meeting, the TOB had been provided within an appropriate timescale 
and Mrs W had the opportunity to raise any concerns before any work was undertaken by 
the adviser. She hadnt done so and it seems she only became unhappy about paying the 
fee once shed decided against accepting the recommendation. 
But the investigator went on to consider other factors which, in his view, meant Mrs W 
shouldnt have to pay the fee. And, as well as saying the fee should be refunded with 
interest, the investigator thought Quilter should pay Mrs W £500 for the trouble and upset shed suffered. The investigator pointed in particular to the solicitors letter threatening legal 
action and the impact the advisers actions had on Mrs W. 
Mrs W was happy to accept the investigators view. Quilter wasnt. It said it was confused 
because Mrs Ws original complaint had been (and quoting from Mrs Ws email) about the 
level of charges and lack of information in reference to those charges pertaining to the 
report, not about unsuitable advice. Quilter also quoted what the investigator had said in his 
view. On the one hand, hed agreed the issue to determine was whether the cancellation fee 
was applied appropriately by Quilter. And hed confirmed he was satisfied Mrs W had been 
made reasonably aware of the cancellation fee applicable should she decide not to proceed. 
But the investigator had gone on to say a fee should only apply where a suitable 
recommendation had been made. He didnt think the recommendation was suitable and so 
the cancellation fee shouldnt be payable. 
Quilter termed that a surprising leap in a different direction and a particularly harsh 
conclusion. Quilter said it strongly believed the advice was suitable and appropriate. The 
adviser had met and got to know Mrs W. Advice was subjective and Quilter didnt propose to 
argue the pros and cons of each and every point. It said it could accept the situation if the 
advice was clearly and definitely not suitable but that wasnt the case. And, as it involved a 
proposed pension transfer, the recommendations had been pre-approved by a highly 
qualified and experienced Compliance Quality Assurance team and deemed suitable and 
appropriate.
 
Quilter referred to the TOB which clearly stated that 75% of the agreed fees are payable 
after the presentation of a recommendation but before implementation. Quilter had already 
forwarded evidence as to the amount of work, research and analysis which was carried out 
in good faith and in the best interests of the client. Yet it now seemed fair for Mrs W not to 
pay the adviser for that work when she wasnt specifically complaining about the actual 
advice. Quilter didnt think the investigators view was fair and reasonable and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman to decide. 
The investigator said that Quilters final response letter outlined the complaint points raised 
by Mrs W which did include the quality of the advice and the service and which she 
considered justified all charges being waived. The investigator confirmed the complaint 
would be passed to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions the investigator reached and the reasons he 
gave as to why he was upholding Mrs Ws complaint. 
I agree with what the investigator said about whether Mrs W was adequately informed about 
the advisers fees, and in particular that shed be liable to pay a percentage of the agreed fee 
even if she didnt accept the advisers recommendations. Even if that wasnt discussed 
during the meeting I think Quilter did enough to bring its fees to Mrs Ws attention and she 
knew or ought to have known shed still be charged even if she didnt accept the 
recommendations. A copy of the TOB was emailed to her. And, when she queried the 4% 
initial charge the adviser reminded her that all the fees and charge were set out in the TOB 
which he asked Mrs W to review.
I think the 75% charge reflects that the bulk of the work done would be the fact finding, 
research and analysis which would inform the recommendations. I dont think that level of charging is unreasonable. And, although the adviser may have initially indicated the full fee 
was due, he did correct that quickly and confirmed that 75% of the agreed fee was payable. 
Against that background, I can, to some extent, understand why Quilter thinks that should be 
an end to the matter and Mrs W is liable to pay the advisers fee. But, although my starting 
point is the contractual agreement which Mrs W entered into, Ive also thought about whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. Thats consistent with DISP 
(Dispute Resolution) 3.6.1R which requires me to determine a complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
I dont think Quilter disagrees, simply because a fee for a service or product has been 
agreed, that must mean the fee will be payable in any event and regardless of whether there 
are any issues with the service or product. Quilters position is that there was nothing clearly 
wrong with recommendations made. Ive considered suitability below. But what Im saying is 
that any concerns about the quality of the service is something which its fair to take into 
account in deciding if Mrs W should be required to pay the fee.
Quilter will also know that we have an inquisitorial role which means we can look beyond the 
way in which a complaint is put to see if there are any other issues which the complainant 
hasnt pointed to. But I dont think thats really relevant here because, as the investigator 
noted, Mrs W did raise concerns about the suitability of the advice and the service shed 
received in her complaint. Thats reflected in Quilters final response letter. And, on her 
complaint form, Mrs W said, amongst other things, she didnt think the advice was in her 
best interests as moving her existing pension plans to the CRA wouldve resulted in higher 
charges and lower performance and so less money when she retired. 
I think the investigator was right not to focus exclusively on whether the fees (including any 
fee payable if the recommendations werent accepted or implemented) had been disclosed 
or brought to Mrs Ws attention but to see if there were any other factors which should also 
be considered. Ive adopted a similar approach in considering what led to Mrs Ws 
unhappiness about paying Quilters fee. 
Quilter says theres nothing to say the recommendation was clearly not suitable. But, and 
bearing in mind the points made by the investigator, I disagree. I think the indications are 
that the recommendation to switch to the CRA wasnt justified. In summary, Mrs W was 
seeking advice about whether her existing pension plans were appropriate. Although it 
seems some changes may have been recommended (for example switching one of her 
plans to a lower risk fund or spread of funds more aligned to her balanced attitude to risk), I 
dont see that her existing arrangements were obviously unsuitable. 
In 2009 the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority, published a report and checklist 
for pension switching. Its still applicable today. The checklist identified four main areas 
where consumers had lost out, including being switched to a pension that was more 
expensive than their existing arrangements without good reason. I dont think the reasons 
put forward by the adviser were justified and when the switch came at the expense of likely 
lower retirement benefits for Mrs W. 
I agree with the investigator that options within Mrs Ws existing arrangements werent 
explored in favour of a new, complex and higher charging arrangement that appeared likely 
to deliver significantly lower benefits at retirement. I think that must call into question the 
suitability of the advice. Indeed it seems Mrs W identified the higher charges were likely to 
result in lower retirement benefits and that was the central reason she rejected the advice. 
Shed made it clear that consolidation might be an option but only if that made sense  so 
not at the cost of reduced benefits. I also think some of her recorded objectives were questionable. All in all, I think suitable advice wouldve been to retain her existing 
arrangements. 
I dont see it would be fair for Mrs W to have to pay a fee for advice that wasnt suitable. I 
agree with the investigator that the fee should be refunded, together with interest at 8% pa 
simple, from the date Mrs W paid the fee to the date of the refund. 
I also think the distress and inconvenience amount proposed by the investigator is fair and 
reasonable and in line with the sort of award wed make in a case such as this. As the 
investigator noted, being threatened with legal proceedings is a serious issue and wouldve 
been very upsetting and worrying for Mrs W. I can see that alone will have caused her a 
considerable amount of distress. She also had to find a significant amount of money quickly 
in order to avoid legal proceedings being instigated against her for a sum which Ive decided 
it wouldnt be fair for her to have to pay. 
I dont expect Quilter to agree but I hope Ive explained why Ive endorsed the approach 
taken by the investigator and the outcome he recommended.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
Quilter Financial Limited must refund to Mrs W the fee of £2,658.38 with interest at 8% pa 
simple from the date of payment to the date of settlement and pay Mrs W £500 for distress 
and inconvenience suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman