DRN-3183152
The complaint
Mr C complains TransUnion International UK Limited added an address to his credit file they 
shouldnt have and removed a Notice of Correction (NOC) which he didnt want.
What happened
From the information I have it seems Mr C contacted TransUnion in November 2020 about 
the NOC  saying the NOC had disappeared from his file without him being told. He asked 
TransUnion to explain why theyd never added it or had removed it without getting his 
permission to do so.
Ive then been provided with an email he sent TransUnion on 15 February 2021, where he 
again said theyd removed the NOC.
TransUnion did reply to this email, though they didnt acknowledge his concerns regarding 
the NOC. But Mr C raised a further issue in May 2021 which they did reply to. He contacted 
them, raising concerns about an address thatd been added to his credit file.
TransUnion explained as a credit reference agency (CRA) they receive the information they 
hold from many sources. They said the information is received electronically and is 
automatically updated to his credit report. They said their contracts with providers make it 
clear the information has to be accurate. But, looking at some information provided by a 
lender regarding the address hed mentioned, they could see it was added on 31 July 2020. 
They said if Mr C had any further queries about why the lender has uploaded this address, 
he should get in touch with them directly. And, as they could see he didnt have any 
connection to the address, they removed it from his records. 
By this time Mr C had already asked us to look into his complaint. In doing so, he shared a 
substantial amount of personal information. Id like to thank Mr C for doing this, as it provides 
helpful context for his complaint. Out of respect for his privacy, I wont go into any more 
detail, but I will factor in what hes told us when thinking about the fairest way to resolve his 
complaint.
One of our Investigators questioned TransUnion on why theyd not replied to Mr Cs contacts 
about the NOC. And, after waiting for a period of time without being given information shed 
asked for, issued her outcome. She found TransUnion hadnt done enough to help Mr C, 
who was a vulnerable consumer, and awarded £250 compensation. She also said they 
should record a new NOC for Mr C  providing the wording was accurate, and not 
misleading or offensive.
Mr C asked for some clarification on a few points, which our Investigator provided.
TransUnion got in touch, and said the only complaint raised with them was about the linked 
address which theyd answered in May 2021. They said during the course of Mr Cs 
complaint with our service wed asked about other issues hed raised. They said they 
thought it unfair we were addressing these points as theyd not been raised with them 
before. They also said theyd not received a NOC request as part of the complaint. As such, 
they didnt agree with our Investigator.
Our Investigator explained shed sent a copy of the email Mr C sent to TransUnion in 
February 2021, and in their response, theyd not said why they hadnt addressed the NOC 
issue. She added she didnt think it fair Mr C raised the issue in February 2021 and had this 
issue seemingly ignored. And, she pointed out shed contacted them about this first on 
9 August 2021  so theyd had 12 weeks to find out why the NOC issue raised in 
February 2021 wasnt addressed. She reiterated the compensation was because she didnt 
think Mr C was provided with good service, and he was vulnerable. She still felt the £250, 
and adding the NOC, was fair.
TransUnion said while they respect Mr Cs right to ask for a NOC, hes not engaged with 
their process, so they cant add what theyve not received. They said theyre happy to look at 
adding a NOC but need the wording.
Mr C provided this, but then TransUnion said it couldnt be applied because it didnt meet the 
criteria. Mr C asked for advice on this, which isnt something we can provide. So, our 
Investigator referred Mr C through to a charity who may be able to help. Weve not heard 
back from him since about this specific point.
Im aware Mr C has referred to another complaint hes got with our service, against a 
different financial business  but I cant see that case would affect this one. So, Ive gone 
ahead and issued my outcome on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain my role is only to look into the individual issues present in this 
complaint  I cant change how CRAs such as TransUnion work.
Here, I think its appropriate to consider two issues  the recording of the incorrect address, 
and the NOC related concerns Mr C has raised.
Incorrect address
As Ive mentioned above, I can see Mr C contacted TransUnion about this in May 2021. 
They replied to this point, saying the information had been provided by a lender  but they 
could see from their review the linked address shouldnt be linked. So, they removed it.
From what Ive seen CRAs will receive data electronically, but that data isnt owned by them 
 its owned by the lender. So, generally, they cant amend it without authorisation from the 
lender. But, in any case where a dispute is raised about information reported by a CRA, Id 
expect them to investigate that.
Here, TransUnion have done exactly that  theyve looked at Mr Cs concerns, have said 
they were able to determine it shouldnt be applied to him without reference to the lender  
and have removed it. Given that, I cant ask them to have done anything more.
Recording the NOC
Mr C told our service hed repeatedly asked TransUnion to record a NOC on his credit file, 
because he wasnt happy with the information on there. As Ive outlined above, our Investigator agreed Mr C had contacted TransUnion about the NOC but hadnt replied to his 
requests on this.
TransUnions response is something I find confusing. Theyve initially said they had no 
record of it  even though our Investigator shared with them an email from February 2021 
that clearly shows they were contacted about the NOC. Theyve then said they couldnt have 
recorded the NOC, because Mr C hadnt engaged with their processes. But, I cant see how 
Mr C could engage with their processes if they dont engage with his request to add a NOC, 
and tell him whats required.
To be clear, Im satisfied TransUnion were contacted by Mr C regarding the NOC on several 
occasions now. Mr C has provided a copy of a letter he says he sent to the CRAs CEOs in 
November 2020, but even if for some reason TransUnion didnt receive this  they clearly did 
receive the email in February 2021. It was addressed to them, and they replied to it.
So, Im satisfied TransUnion were made aware of Mr C wanting to add a NOC  and failed to 
engage with him on that. 
Summary
I can see from Mr Cs emails that hes incredibly frustrated and has real concerns over the 
accuracy of the data TransUnion are reporting. I think Mr Cs concerns will have been 
exacerbated by TransUnion not replying to him regarding the NOC  and I do agree its had 
an impact on him. 
I can see our Investigator recommended £250  and in the circumstances I think thats a fair 
way to put matters right.
I also think, once Mr C is able to provide an appropriately worded NOC, TransUnion should 
update this on to his credit file without delay.
Putting things right
I require TransUnion to:
Pay Mr C £250 compensation.
Upon receipt of an appropriately worded NOC, update it to his credit file as soon as 
possible.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require TransUnion 
International UK Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman