The complaint
Mr and Mrs T  on behalf of Company L  complain that The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) unfairly declined their legal expenses insurance 
claim.
NFU uses intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference to 
the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such 
intermediaries.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T made a claim on their business protection policy in 2018 for legal expenses, 
after receiving an application for adverse possession from their neighbour. 
However, NFU declined the claim on the basis that the defence of the adverse possession 
was not covered under the policy. Mr and Mrs T complained that the insurer was wrong to 
decline cover on this basis, which has led to them having to proceed largely without legal 
advice, and which has concluded with a judgment against them with an impending adverse 
costs order. In summary, they complain that:
There is no exclusion clause in the policy relating to adverse possession;
In reality the dispute was primarily about the location of boundaries (which was noted
by the tribunal judge during proceedings) so the claim ought to have been considered
on the basis of trespass rather than adverse possession.
The onus was on NFU to tell Mr and Mrs T to bring a trespass claim as an alternative
way of defending a claim for adverse possession, as a lay person does not have the
knowledge to make the connection between these two causes of action.
As a result, they say that NFU should provide retrospective cover for their expenses incurred 
defending the adverse possession claim, as well as their costs for pursuing an appeal.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he did not consider that NFU had declined 
the claim unfairly. Mr and Mrs T disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy set out the various insured perils that are 
DRN-1835277covered under the commercial legal expenses section of the policy, which includes property 
protection:
Property Protection
We will pay:
Costs and expenses relating to a civil dispute relating to property which is owned by 
you or is your responsibility, following
3. a trespass.
Please note that you must have established the legal ownership or right to the land 
that is the subject of the dispute.
Mr and Mrs T submit that NFU was wrong to decline their claim to defend the adverse 
possession action because trespass is what a claim for adverse possession seeks to 
regularise. They say there can be no adverse possession without trespass and, given that 
trespass is an insured peril, it must mean that adverse possession is also included.
I accept that trespass and adverse possession are interrelated, because possession can 
theoretically only be adverse if it is by someone who has no right or permission to be on the 
land in question  i.e. a trespasser. But even accepting this premise, this is not where Mr 
and Mrs Ts claim failed under the policy terms, which was to do with the fact that they were 
not pursuing a trespass claim, but were looking to defend an application for adverse 
possession. 
The property protection section of the policy sets out the relevant exclusions that apply:
We will not pay for any claim relating to
5. defending your legal rights other than in defending a counter-claim.
So although Mr and Mrs T could have brought a claim against a trespasser (i.e. for 
repossession and/or damages), the policy does not cover the defence of a claim brought by 
a trespasser seeking to establish legal title to land through means of adverse possession, as 
this is an example of Mr and Mrs T seeking to defend their legal rights and ownership over 
the land. So it was in this sense that the claim for adverse possession was not covered, 
rather than it being caught by an express exclusion or failing to satisfy the requirements of 
an insured event, for example.
Mr and Mrs T made their claim in February 2018. At the time of making their claim, they 
were asked what the nature of their legal dispute was, to which the NFU representative has 
noted:
The 3rd partyhas made a claim against the [policyholders] for an adverse 
possession claim in 2017 this is following a gate that was erected in 2008.
And having seen the other claim notes, Im satisfied that the claim was presented by Mr and 
Mrs T as one of adverse possession. And from what I can see, they were not seeking to 
pursue a trespass claim, although it appears the NFU agent did tell Mr and Mrs T on 19 April 
2018 that such action would be covered under the policy:
Called [Mr T] to discuss claimand confirmed the trespass of the fence is 
coveredAdvised the adverse possession claim is not a covered event. I have discussed benefits of panel with the customer whom does have [freedom of choice] 
and is considering own solicitorcustomer will come back to us when considered 
options.
However, it appears that Mr and Mrs T did not seek to pursue any trespass claim following 
this discussion. But overall Im satisfied that NFU declined the claim to oppose the adverse 
possession fairly, as this action is not covered by the policy for the reasons Ive outlined 
above.
Mr and Mrs T also submit that NFU failed to give them reasonable guidance to help them 
make their claim, as it only said that a claim for adverse possession was not covered, 
and did not explain that bringing a trespass claim was an alternative way of defending such 
a claim.
ICOBS 8.1.1R of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook sets out the relevant obligations 
placed on the insurer in this regard. It states:
An insurer must
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress.
I appreciate that an insurer ought to help point the policyholder in the right direction if they 
are confused about what they ought to be claiming for. But in my opinion, that does not 
extend (as Mr and Mrs T allege) to providing advice on how a policyholder ought to conduct 
their legal affairs  particularly when the policyholders had contacted NFU specifically for 
assistance in defending an adverse possession claim. NFU and its intermediaries are not 
legal experts. So it can only reasonably be expected to respond to the policyholders request 
to cover a particular claim by advising whether or not that cause of action is covered by the 
policy   based on the circumstances as they are presented by the policyholder.
In this instance Mr and Mrs T contacted NFU for assistance in defending a claim for adverse 
possession of their land, as they had been served with an ADV1 application in May 2017. As 
Ive mentioned previously, they did not mention wanting to make a claim for trespass, and 
their claim appears to have been very much positioned as one of defending the adverse 
possession application, which is what NFU responded to.
In any event, NFU did tell Mr and Mrs T that it could assist with a trespass claim  should 
they have wanted to make one  in the call outlined above on 19 April 2018, as well as in 
an email of 13 September 2018. NFU said it could instruct panel solicitors to consider 
whether a trespass claim would have prospects, if Mr and Mrs T wanted to pursue such a 
claim. 
It was therefore incumbent on Mr and Mrs T to decide how they wanted to proceed, and Im 
satisfied that NFU fulfilled its obligation to provide reasonable guidance to help them make a 
claim by setting out what the policy would and would not cover. But Im not persuaded that 
this obligation extends to giving advice about how to conduct the legal dispute itself  such 
as telling Mr and Mrs T to stay the adverse possession claim and proceed with a trespass 
claim instead  as the insurer cannot be expected to know all the alternative ways of 
defending a claim for adverse possession, or whether this would have even been a viable 
option for the policyholders. 
This is advice that should realistically be sought from legally trained professionals. Mr and 
Mrs T say that a lay person does not have the knowledge to make the connection between 
trespass and adverse possession themselves. But they seem to be overlooking the fact that the insurer is also a lay person in this respect, who typically instructs solicitors to advise on 
such matters if, on the face of it, a claim appears to be covered under the policy. So I do not 
think NFU has acted unreasonably by failing to provide the advice Mr and Mrs T said they 
expected, as it would not have been appropriate for it to have provided advice that its not 
qualified to give. 
Appeal
The hearing subsequently took place in the property chamber of the first-tier tribunal, where 
a decision was handed down on 7 August 2019. The tribunal judge concluded that the 
matter at hand was actually a boundary dispute rather than one of adverse possession. The 
tribunal found in the applicants favour and ordered for the land titles to be altered to reflect 
the boundary as it had been argued by the applicant. As a result, the application for adverse 
possession was cancelled and, in relation to Mr and Mrs Ts title to the disputed land, the 
judge stated:
[Mr and Mrs Ts] title is not affected in that they were never the owners of the disputed 
land. This is a case where the alteration to the title should be made unless there are 
exceptional circumstances which justify not making the order. In my judgment there 
are none.
Mr and Mrs T now want NFU to fund an appeal against the judgment, which was declined by 
the insurer for the same reasons as the initial claim. I appreciate that an appeal is not 
fundamentally defensive in nature in the same way as the initial tribunal proceedings would 
have been. But such legal action is still a result of Mr and Mrs T seeking to defend rather 
than assert their legal rights in these circumstances, as they were not the party to initiate 
either an adverse possession or a boundary dispute. 
I also appreciate that the adverse possession application was subsequently cancelled. But in 
any event, it seems that a claim for trespass (or any other insured event under the same 
section) would now not be covered on the basis of there being no property infringement at 
all. The tribunal deemed that Mr and Mrs T had never been the owners of the disputed land 
in the first place  which would fall foul of the policy requirement for the insured to have 
established the legal ownership or right to the land that is the subject of the dispute. So 
even if it could be argued that Mr and Mrs Ts appeal is not defensive in nature  which I 
do not accept   it seems it would be bound to fail anyway. Therefore, I do not consider 
NFU has acted unfairly by declining the appeal costs either.
In summary  and for the reasons outlined above  Im not persuaded that NFU has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in these circumstances by declining to cover any of legal costs 
incurred by Mr and Mrs T. So I will not be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T  
on behalf of Company L  to accept or reject my decision before 10  August 2020.Jack Ferris
Ombudsman