DRN-3616313
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has not fairly compensated him 
for the stress the bank caused when investigating his romance scam claim.  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. As such, Ill provide 
only an overview of the most essential facts here. 
Mr C made a connection with a person Ill refer to as N. They first met at a party and things 
developed from there. Mr C explains that he thought N was his girlfriend and that they were 
in a genuine relationship. He says that she didnt ask to borrow any money until five months 
after they started going out. He explains that he acted in good faith when he made the 
payments. 
Mr C paid £58,000 from his Halifax account, along with funds sent from his other bank that 
are being considered as part of a separate complaint. When Mr C asked N to pay him back, 
she disappeared. 
Mr C believes that N played on his vulnerabilities and good nature to manipulate him. Hes 
told us about his autism and how it impacts him day to day. He says that N exploited the 
restrictions imposed by the global pandemic to defraud him. He explains that because they 
could only communicate by video call and messages, he took N at her word. 
On 30 March 2021 Mr C reported the situation to the bank and was told he would get an 
answer in 15 days. On 6 April 2021, Mr C received just over £21,000 back. On 22 April 2021, 
Mr C received a further £5,000. 
On 6 July 2021 Mr C raised a complaint. Hed been waiting to hear what was going to 
happen with the reimbursement of the rest of the funds hed sent but only received holding 
text messages about waiting for the beneficiary bank to reply. He pointed out it had been 
over 100 days since hed first raised the fraud with the bank.
On 29 July 2021, Halifax issued its final response. It said it had been able to recover some 
money from the receiving account and then refunded the rest because it considered that 
Mr Cs personal circumstances meant he was not able to protect himself. 
But as part of the same letter, Halifax went on to say that whilst the bank had reviewed this 
matter as a scam and it would honour that, it did not consider the situation was a scam. It 
didnt think Mr C should have been given a refund and that meant the bank would not be 
able to compensate him for the distress thats been caused. It said that it would pay £100 for 
its mistake in treating the matter as a scam and raising his expectations. 
Mr Cs position is that the money should have been returned to him in full without question in 
the first 15 days following the claim. He wants compensation for the distress Halifax has 
caused throughout this process. He says that the bank has repeatedly failed him. He says 
that it failed to safeguard him because it did not ask him about the large payments he was 
making. Hes explained that the bank did not have updates for him when he called and that 
hed received text messages outside of the expected timescales. Overall, Mr C considers 
that he wasnt treated seriously by Halifax and that hes been ignored. 
Mr C referred the complaint to us because he was unhappy with the compensation offered 
and said it was not acceptable for the stress caused. 
Our Investigator considered both of Mr Cs complaints side by side. She undertook 
significant investigation on the linked complaint, including speaking to the Police. She 
explained to Halifax that the wider evidence suggests N had set out to deceive Mr C right 
from the start. 
She thought that Halifax had caused Mr C unnecessary stress as a result of the length of 
time the investigation took. But she also thought that Halifax had kept Mr C updated for the 
most part. She noted that there was around a month when Mr C had not heard anything 
when he should have done. She also noted that Mr C received a significant proportion of the 
lost funds back within the first week so stresses linked to any priority debts or concerns 
about his immediate costs of living would have been lessened. Overall, she thought a total of 
£250 was fair compensation for missed deadlines and lack of communication.
Halifax agreed with our Investigators findings. Mr C did not agree and felt the compensation 
did not go far enough. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been 
referred to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C thinks what the bank has now offered does not go far enough. Hes explained the ways 
that he feels Halifax has failed him. Some of these points I dont need to make a finding on. 
Mr C has said that Halifax didnt appropriately safeguard him when he made the payments 
and that caused him loss. But the bank has already executed the remedy I could potentially 
recommend to put that potential failing right by refunding the lost funds in full. Although 
Mr Cs financial loss has been mitigated, Ive thought about whether the banks actions 
affected him practically and emotionally. 
There is no question that Mr C has had a very difficult time in recent years. Discovering that 
he has been deceived by a person he thought he was building a life and a future with is 
obviously an incredibly upsetting experience. Mr C has described feeling crushed and very 
depressed. Its difficult for me to truly imagine how Mr C has felt day to day as hes tried to 
process and come to terms with what has happened.
It must have been some relief when Halifax said it was going to reimburse the loss Mr C 
incurred from his Halifax accounts in full. But Mr Cs position is that Halifax should have 
made this decision right from the outset. Instead hed endured a lot of anguish not knowing 
where he stood, something which exacerbated his anxiety at an already difficult time.
But I think it is important for me to say that it was not clear cut that Halifax was automatically 
responsible for the loss, even taking into account Mr Cs wider circumstances.
Its possible that Halifax could be responsible for refunding a customer that has lost money 
to a scam if it has failed to appropriately intervene to protect its customer from financial harm 
and that intervention would have stopped the payments from being made, or because of 
obligations under the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code, which Halifax has signed up to.
In this case, Halifax accepted the claim as a scam and decided to refund Mr C in full for the 
loss because it considered he was vulnerable to the scam. It then expressed second 
thoughts about that position because Mr C met N in person on a number of occasions, which 
is not something that typically happens with a romance scam. The inference was that this 
could have also been a genuine relationship that had broken down. 
I can see why, on the face of it, Halifax had concerns about whether N was intentionally 
acting fraudulently and deliberately setting out to scam Mr C. Mr C has been very clear that 
his position is that N fabricated the premise of the relationship in order to obtain money from 
him. But there is a high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud and Im mindful that our 
Investigators dialogue with the police has been an invaluable aid to understanding the wider 
situation here. It is inherently difficult for a bank to determine in isolation whether Mr C was 
deceived into a false relationship which was only for the purposes of taking money from him 
or whether it was a genuine relationship that had broken down. Ultimately Halifax decided to 
refund the loss. But I cant agree with Mr C that Halifax should have refunded it right from the 
outset. I think there was more investigation that the bank needed to do in order to better 
understand the situation.
Having said that, it still took the bank around four months to arrive at its end position despite 
being aware of Mr Cs vulnerabilities at the time he made the claim.  Whilst Mr C did get a 
large amount of money refunded to him fairly quickly, there was a still a significant proportion 
of the funds outstanding. I think Halifax could have been clearer about what was happening 
and provided specific updates rather than the same generic information. Its also unclear 
why Halifax kept telling Mr C it was waiting for a response from the beneficiary bank when 
the account Mr C had paid was also held with Halifax. Its no surprise that he didnt know 
where he stood and felt compelled to make a complaint. 
When thinking about compensation for the impact of this situation on Mr C, it is important for 
me to draw a distinction between the impact of the scam and the impact of the banks 
actions. A lot of distress and inconvenience is directly attributable to Ns actions as she was 
the direct cause of Mr Cs losses and I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for that. Im also 
not a regulator and I have no power to fine or punish Halifax for its conduct. But I have 
thought about whether Halifaxs actions at an already difficult time amplified the impact of the 
loss of the money and made a bad situation worse. 
Having done so, I do consider that Halifaxs actions have had a direct impact on Mr C. There 
was a lack of clarity about what was happening with the outstanding funds. I can appreciate 
why Mr C felt Halifax had not taken him seriously. Mr C was coming to terms with a very 
difficult time in his life and I think Halifax lost sight of this. There was no urgency or 
compassion displayed in the banks later interactions which is particularly disappointing 
considering the bank had identified that Mr C was vulnerable. But taking everything into 
account and thinking about the share of the impact reasonably attributable to Halifax here, 
I think the £250 now offered is a fair and reasonable way to recognise that the way Halifax 
assessed Mr Cs claim caused him to suffer some distress and inconvenience that could 
have been avoided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr C a total of 
£250 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience it caused if it has not 
already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman