DRN-1521969
Complaint
Mrs R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.                          
Background
This complaint is about one running account credit facility and twenty-nine high-cost short 
term credit loans that Sunny provided to Mrs R between November 2014 and May 2019. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Rs complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been 
provided with instalment loans 8 to 29. Sunny didnt agree in full. So the complaint was 
passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs R, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mrs R was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner when it provided Mrs R with her eighth instalment loan. I say this because by this stage, Mrs R already had a history of taking new loans after 
settling previous ones. Indeed this eighth loan was taken while loans six and seven (taken in 
April 2016 and July 2016) were still outstanding. In my view, this ought to have shown Sunny 
that Mrs R was struggling to manage her money and that she may well have been borrowing 
further in order to make her repayments. 
Sunny continued lending to Mrs R even when this pattern was repeated and on many 
occasions where she already had outstanding loans with Sunny to repay. In these 
circumstances, Sunny ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were more 
likely than not unsustainable for Mrs R. 
Mrs R had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided her with. 
So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs R paid on instalment loans 8 to 29;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
the number of loans means that any information recorded about loans 8 to 29 is 
adverse. So all reference to loans 8 to 29 should be removed from Mrs Rs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mrs R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman