DRN-2963337
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled their claim on a motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a seven-seat luxury sports utility vehicle with an 
automatic gearbox. A European car maker made the vehicle in about 2015. In about January 
2019, Mr K agreed to buy the vehicle on hire purchase. He agreed to pay instalments of 
about £580.00 per month.
For the year from 10 September 2019, Mr K had the vehicle insured on a comprehensive 
policy with Aviva. He was the policyholder. His wife and children were named drivers. Mr K 
agreed to pay for the insurance by instalments of about £140.00 per month.
Later in September 2019, a third party caused damage to Mr Ks vehicle. Aviva arranged for 
one of its repairers to repair the car. Aviva supplied Mr K with a large hire vehicle. 
On 4 November 2019, the repairer said it had finished and it gave the vehicle back to Mr K. 
But Mr K complained to Aviva about issues with the vehicle. Aviva arranged for other 
repairers to do further work on a coolant leak, a sensor wire, steering and bodywork. 
In January 2020, Mr K got the vehicle back. But he complained about the gearbox. Aviva 
had the vehicle taken to a garage franchised by the car maker.
By a final response dated 26 February 2020, Aviva said it had paid £150.00 and offered a  
further £300.00 to Mr K for earlier issues  but the gearbox issues werent related to the 
accident. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt collect the vehicle from the franchised garage. They brought their 
complaint to us on 24 August 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Aviva had acted fairly, acknowledged where they had gone wrong and offered suitable 
redress where required. 
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mrs K and her expert engineer say, in summary, as follows:
There were no fault codes, limp modes or gearbox issues prior to the hard impact 
collision.
The hard impact was to the left front including the driveshaft which is connected to 
the gearbox.
The car was however returned with several issues including the gearbox.
The only evidence supplied by Aviva to justify the gearbox issue was 'not accident 
related' was a fundamentally flawed post-accident oil sample analysis. There is no 
pre- accident data to compare it with which renders it meaningless and, in any case, 
the expert would expect debris in the oil after an impact.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that before the accident the car had no known faults. It was under four years old 
with a recorded mileage of about 70,000.
The accident caused damage to the front left corner including the wheel and suspension.
I hold Aviva responsible for its repairers. So Aviva is responsible for Mr and Mrs Ks poor 
experience between September and December 2019. That included unnecessary delays 
and disappointments. 
But Aviva arranged large hire vehicles  and got them upgraded when Mr and Mrs K asked. 
Aviva also paid for an MOT test. So Im satisfied that its offers totalling £450.00 were fair and 
reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ive thought about how Mr and Mrs Ks poor experience in late 2019 relates to the gearbox 
issue in 2020. I can understand that they may have lost faith in Aviva. But Aviva didnt rely 
on one repairer- it used at least three including a franchised garage. So I dont consider that 
Mr and Mrs Ks experience in 2019 is evidence that Aviva mishandled the issue of the 
gearbox.
Mr and Mrs Ks expert says that the impact was to the left front including the driveshaft which 
is connected to the gearbox. He has highlighted a photograph of the driveshaft disconnected 
and hanging during the repair. But I havent seen enough evidence of any damage to the 
driveshaft.
Mr and Mrs Ks expert says that he would expect debris in the oil after an impact. But I dont 
think hes given a persuasive explanation of that expectation.
Mr and Mrs Ks expert characterises Avivas oil sampling as fundamentally flawed. That is 
because there was only one sample rather than a series of samples showing a trend.
But the oil sampling company provided guidance notes with its test results. I will take the 
element of copper as an example. The guidance notes said the following:
Copper May originate from copper/lead bearings, oil coolers and pipework erosion 
or synchromesh's in gearboxes, we dont like to see above 50 ppm .
And its results found copper at 178 ppm.
The oil sampling company also highlighted the levels of iron and aluminium.
The franchised garage said that the gearbox is a sealed unit, so contamination can only 
have come from within it.
On balance , Im persuaded that the oil sampling shows wear and tear inside the gearbox. 
Im not persuaded that the accident (or the repairs) damaged the gearbox.So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to repair the gearbox or to do anything 
more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman