DRN-3785458
The complaint
Mr K complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly caused his car insurance 
premium to increase, after he reported an accident. 
What happened
Around November 2021, Mr K contacted Admiral to report an accident. He told the insurer 
that there was no damage or injuries caused by the accident. Mr K complained to the insurer 
after finding out that his insurance premium had increased, even though a claim hadnt been 
made. Mr K was unhappy that his no claims discount had been impacted and with the way 
Admiral had communicated with him  indicating that the third-party had made a claim when 
it hadnt done so.
Admiral explained why Mr Ks premium had been impacted and pointed out that he could 
shop around for a more competitive premium. The insurer explained that Mr Ks no claims 
discount would be reinstated after the six-month period Admiral planned to keep the claim 
open for - given the possibility of a third-party claim. Admiral said that it didnt think the 
letters it sent to Mr K were unreasonable. 
Mr K remained unhappy and asked this service to get involved. One of our investigators 
concluded that Admiral had acted fairly. Mr K didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
Mr K also raised concerns about the way his no claims discount was reinstated. Our 
investigator has already explained why this issue doesnt fall within the remit of this 
complaint. So I wont be commenting on this point further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that Admiral has acted fairly. I know Mr K will be disappointed to hear 
this, so Ill explain why.
Admiral has a duty to make a record of any incident, regardless of whether it leads to a 
claim. Such information is typically recorded on the Claims Underwriting Exchange, which is 
a database of insurance incidents and is generally accessed by most insurers. So its 
understandable that other insurers Mr K may have obtained a quote from will have access to 
information about this incident  and would have adjusted his quote accordingly. I cant say 
that Admiral has acted unfairly by recording this information, as it is obliged to do so.
Its not unusual that Mr K has experienced a premium increase after reporting the accident. 
Most incidents, regardless of fault or whether a claim is made will likely result in a premium 
increase. Admiral has shared its underwriting information with us. Although I empathise with 
Mr K because his premium increased by over £1,000, the information Admiral provided 
persuades me that the insurer calculated the renewal premium fairly. 
Mr K is unhappy with Admirals letters, saying the insurer made it seem like the third-party 
had made a claim. Having reviewed copies of the relevant letters, Im satisfied that Admiral 
communicated appropriately. It seems to me that Admiral had taken steps to ensure it was 
fully prepared for a potential claim. And Admiral explained to Mr K what it would do if he was 
unable to provide the information the insurer had requested. I can see that Mr K was left 
distressed by the situation, but I cant see anything that makes me think Admiral caused him 
to feel this way  nor have I seen anything that suggests that Admiral did something to make 
it seem like a claim had been made.
I acknowledge that Mr K is unhappy that he now faces an increased car insurance premium. 
But I havent seen anything that makes me think Admiral acted unfairly. So I wont be asking 
the insurer to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman