DRN-2866831
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Ms S, a director of D, has complained on Ds behalf. 
What happened
D held a business protection insurance policy with Zurich. D claimed on its policy after being 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Zurich turned down Ds claim as they didnt think there was cover for the circumstances of 
the claim under the policy. Following the High Court judgment in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) test case D re-submitted its claim. Zurich maintained that they had been 
correct in turning down the claim. They said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property and 
while the policy provided cover for a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the 
diseases specified. 
Unhappy with Zurichs response, D brought its complaint to our service. It said the policy 
defines damage as loss or damage and D suffered a financial loss. D also said that the 
policy provides cover for consequences of a notifiable disease and Covid-19 is a notifiable 
disease. D thought the policy should provide cover under business interruption as well as the 
extensions for notifiable disease and prevention of access. D added that at renewal Zurich 
clearly excluded Covid-19 and other communicable diseases, indicating that it was covered 
by the previous policy.
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the claim. 
D asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ds business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Zurich have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ds claim.
D has also told us access to its premises was hindered following lockdown due to the closing 
of the arcade where it was based to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Im not going to 
comment on that further in this decision as that would need to be dealt with as a separate 
complaint. 
Damage
The core business interruption section of Ds policy says:
We will pay for the loss of income and/or extra expenses incurred by you during 
the indemnity period as a result of interruption or interference with the business 
caused by damage to:
 the buildings of the premises shown in the schedule
 the contents or glass of the premises shown in the schedule.
Provided that at the time of the damage there shall be an insurance in force 
covering the property at the premises against damage and that payment shall 
have been made or liability admitted under that insurance.
Damage is in italics showing that it has a specific meaning in the policy. The policy defines 
damage as loss or damage. 
For this to provide cover the interruption or interference with Ds business would need to be 
due to loss or damage to Ds buildings, contents or glass. I understand that D has suffered a 
financial loss, but I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused loss or damage to 
Ds buildings, contents or glass. So I dont think there is cover for Ds claim under this 
section of the policy. 
Prevention of access
The cover under the policy is extended by various extensions. For this extension to provide 
cover the business interruption or interference would need to be as a result of:
damage insured by this policy to property in the vicinity of the premises which 
prevents or hinders the use of the premises or access to them
While property in the vicinity might have had to close, I havent seen anything to indicate that 
this was because Covid-19 had damaged that property. So this doesnt provide cover for Ds 
claim. 
Disease
This extension covers business interruption or interference caused by:
a) any occurrence of a notifiable disease at the premises or attributable to food 
or drink supplied from the premises
b) any discovery of an organism at the premises likely to result in the occurrence 
of a notifiable disease
While Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, Ds policy doesnt refer to the Government list of 
notifiable diseases and instead the meaning of words section sets out that notifiable 
disease refers to a specific list of diseases. The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-
19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expectit to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ds policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases. And I 
dont think that including specific exclusions in subsequent policies means it was covered 
under the one in place at the time of the claim. Therefore, this doesnt provide cover for Ds 
claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome D was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I cant fairly require Zurich to pay Ds claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman