DRN-3238767
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the service they received from Just Retirement Money 
Limited when they wanted to port their equity release mortgage to a new property.
Mr and Mrs B are represented in bringing this complaint by their son, who Ill refer to as 
Mr B1.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had an equity release mortgage and they wanted to move house. They 
contacted Just Retirement in January 2019 to enquire in principle, and in August 2019 they 
asked if a valuation could be undertaken at that time to ensure the property was likely to be 
considered as suitable security. They said, however, that they wouldnt be moving until 
August 2020 as the new property was currently tenanted, and that was when the tenants 
would be leaving.
Mr and Mrs Bs new property was worth less than their existing property, and due to the 
amount they owed on their existing equity release mortgage Just Retirement said Mr and 
Mrs B would need to make a capital reduction of around £8,000 when they moved to reduce 
the loan to value on the new property. Just Retirement provided this figure to Mr and Mrs B 
in a letter in October 2019. It also said a further valuation would need to be carried out 
nearer the time (as theyre only valid for three months), and the amount Mr and Mrs B would 
need to pay as a capital reduction would also be recalculated nearer the time.
Mr and Mrs B wrote to Just Retirement again on 12 March 2020. They said that the £8,000 
partial repayment had been unexpected and initially meant they were unable to proceed, 
however theyd decided to not replace the old kitchen in the new property as they originally 
intended as that would free up the money needed. They said that as interest rates had 
reduced, they felt it was reasonable to ask Just Retirement to recalculate the amount of 
partial repayment needed.
Mr and Mrs B sent a further letter to Just Retirement on 5 May in which they said they hadnt 
had a reply to their letter of 12 March. They said in the present very uncertain circumstances 
it would be helpful to have some clarification on the partial repayment.
Just Retirement wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 12 May. It said based on the property value a 
partial repayment of around £11,300 would be required. The letter then said:
To enable us to continue accepting and processing applications at this time, we have 
implemented some temporary lending criteria changes in respect to property criteria, 
Loan to Value limits and valuations. Therefore you may notice that the amount we can 
currently offer differs to the amount in our original estimation. 
Under the current circumstances were unable to continue with your application. Well 
hold your request until physical valuations can be carried out and contact you to confirm if 
you wish to proceed. We can then provide you with another partial repayment estimate 
when our Loan to Value limits return to normal.
Mr and Mrs B sent an email to Just Retirement on 17 May saying the latest letter 
contradicted the earlier ones. They asked why the partial repayment amount had increased 
when the property value was the same and asked if it was related to the pandemic. They 
also asked what the current circumstances were that meant Just Retirement was unable to 
continue with the application, and when it expected those circumstances to change.
Mr and Mrs B didnt receive a response and so they sent further emails between 31 May and 
21 June. In the meantime, Mr B1 had phoned Just Retirement on 15 June and had been told 
that Just Retirement couldnt see the emails had been received. Mr B1 was told that it would 
be looked into and hed receive a call back either that day or the next.
On 20 July Just Retirement phoned Mr and Mrs B as it wanted to discuss the partial 
repayment with them. Mr and Mrs B said that the new property needed work doing to it, so a 
partial repayment of around £11,000 knocked things out completely. Just Retirement said it 
would refer it to the underwriting team and actuarial department to see if it could reduce the 
partial repayment amount. It said it couldnt guarantee anything, but it would see what it 
could do.
Just Retirement made a further call to Mr and Mrs B on 27 July about the partial repayment. 
Mr B said theyd had their property on the market for two days when the first lockdown hit in 
March, and nothing had happened since then. He said estate agents were just starting to 
open but there had been no visiting, so they were back at square one. 
As theyd heard nothing further Mr and Mrs B sent a further email to Just Retirement on 
19 August. In that they said theyd planned to move in August 2020 and they expected a 
substantial reduction in any early repayment penalty to reflect the stress caused, and the 
additional costs incurred by their family in that theyd raised the finance so Mr and Mrs B 
could complete the purchase.
Just Retirement wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 28 August. It said a part repayment of around 
£7,600 would be needed if Mr and Mrs B wanted to go ahead with the move. It said, 
however, that figure would be reviewed once a new valuation had been carried out as the 
previous one had expired.
Mr and Mrs B completed on the purchase of their new property on 4 September, and their 
children raised the finance for them to do so.
The existing property was then sold, and the Just Retirement mortgage was repaid, on 
23 December (not November as Mr B1 said).
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr and Mrs B complained to Just Retirement in January 
2021. Just Retirement didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint, however it offered £100 
compensation as an apology.
Our investigator looked at things and didnt uphold the complaint. He said he felt the £100 
Just Retirement had offered was fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and so the 
matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I trust the parties wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Before I go any further I think it is prudent to explain why the partial repayment amounts 
varied. Just Retirement looks at the loan to value, so how much the new property is worth 
(which remained unchanged) against how much the mortgage balance is. 
The first partial repayment figure was given in October 2019 at which time the mortgage 
balance was around £102,500. But when the revised figure was given in May 2020 the 
balance had increased to around £105,900 due to the interest roll-up in that period. 
Every month the mortgage balance increased, so the loan to value percentage (based on 
the new property valuation) would also go up. This meant the partial repayment needed 
would have increased each month to bring the borrowing back in line with the maximum loan 
to value that Just Retirement was willing to lend. 
This means the partial repayment figure given in August would have been higher again 
except for the fact Mrs B had her birthday in August, so she was a year older. Because she 
was a year older Just Retirement could increase the maximum loan to value slightly (by one 
percentage point). But more importantly than that it agreed to accept a lower amount as an 
exception to try to help Mr and Mrs B. If it hadnt agreed to offer that exception the amount it 
would have asked for in August 2020 would have been around £10,800.
Mr B1 has said that Just Retirement didnt make it clear in its letter of 12 May that it was only 
a temporary hold, and when things could proceed. He also said that Just Retirement didnt 
explain the delay was due to the pandemic. Whilst I can understand the point Mr B1 is 
making in that Just Retirement didnt mention the pandemic, I think it would have been fairly 
clear to most readers that was the issue being referred to as the current circumstances at 
this time. Especially when put together with the reference to the fact that physical valuations 
couldnt be carried out. Just Retirement couldnt say when things could be progressed as 
that was dependent on when the country (or area, if longer) came out of lockdown. Just 
Retirement had no way of predicting that. 
It is unfortunate that Just Retirement didnt receive the emails that Mr and Mrs B sent, but 
Ive no reason to doubt what it is saying about that. Mr B1 asked if we had independent 
verification that the emails weren't received, or whether wed just accepted Just Retirement's 
word on it. Verifying something like that isnt something wed do as a free dispute resolution 
service, but Ive no reason to doubt Just Retirements honesty and integrity, just as Ive no 
reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Bs  and Mr B1s - honesty and integrity in saying the emails 
were sent as provided in evidence. 
On balance  which is the test I must use  Im satisfied Just Retirement didnt receive the 
emails, and so it would have no reason to believe Mr and Mrs B were trying to contact it or 
that there was potentially a problem.
It is a shame that Mr and Mrs B didnt phone Just Retirement on the number given when 
they didnt receive a response to their emails and Mr B1 hadnt received a call back following his call, especially as Mr B1 had been told it didnt look like the emails had been received. 
Alternatively Mr and Mrs B could have written a letter to Just Retirement, just as theyd done 
previously. To be clear, Im not saying they should have to take these steps, but Just 
Retirement wouldnt know Mr and Mrs B were trying to get in contact as it didnt receive the 
emails so it couldnt move things forward, only Mr and Mrs B could do that by trying 
alternative means of contact.
That said, Just Retirement should have called Mr B1 back when it said it would. That was a 
failing and Just Retirement has accepted that. But upon not receiving the call back I would 
generally have expected Mr B1 and/or Mr and Mrs B to have called Just Retirement. Again, 
Im not saying they should have had to, but they wanted to move house and when Im 
considering what has gone wrong I have to look at what a person could have done to 
mitigate their circumstances and their potential loss. Instead Mr and Mrs B sent a further 
email, despite them having received no response to the previous emails, and Mr B1 having 
been told there was no record of the earlier ones having been received.
Mr B1 has said that Mrs B doesnt deal with financial matters and Mr B is hard of hearing, 
but in that case Mr B1 could have assisted Mr B with the call, or called himself as he did on 
the one occasion on 15 June. 
I cant hold Just Retirement liable for not receiving Mr and Mrs Bs emails, so if we take 
those out of the equation all we have here is one call from Mr B1 on 15 June. Whilst Just 
Retirement should have called Mr B1 back as it said it would, I cant uphold this complaint 
just on the basis of one failed call back when Mr and Mrs B (or Mr B1) had the power to 
move things forward themselves by either phoning or writing to Just Retirement.
In fact things were going on in the background following Mr B1s call. Just Retirement 
referred matters to its actuarial team to check the May 2020 partial redemption figure was 
correct, which it was confirmed it was. It then looked into if there was a way that figure could 
be reduced (even though it was correct) to try to assist Mr and Mrs B. 
For that Just Retirement needed more information, hence the calls to Mr and Mrs B on 
20 July and 28 July. After it spoke to Mr B on the phone both times, it then reviewed the 
information and an updated partial repayment figure was sent to Mr and Mrs B on 28 August. 
It is clear that process took longer than it should, but that is understandable due to the 
pandemic and businesses needing to work differently, with staff working remotely and 
needing to potentially cover other areas due to staff absence. This was a process Just 
Retirement was going through to try to help Mr and Mrs B by agreeing to a lower partial 
redemption figure than was truly due. If Mr and Mrs B were willing to pay the full £11,300 
then matters could have proceeded once physical valuations could be undertaken again 
without that process needing to be gone through. But as Mr and Mrs B made it clear that the 
purchase could not proceed if Just Retirement needed the higher partial repayment figure, 
then going through the process to appeal that figure as an exception  which is what 
happened here  was the only way forward.
In any event, it seems the mortgage couldnt be ported anyway as Mr and Mrs B hadnt sold 
their existing property. So irrespective of what Just Retirement may or may not have done, 
Mr and Mrs Bs children would always have needed to raise the finance for them to buy the 
property as the mortgage couldnt be ported as the previous property hadnt been sold.
Our investigator put this point to Mr B1, and he said:
This is inaccurate and misleading. It implies my parents tried but failed to sell their 
property and effectively ran out of time. That is not the case. It was due to the silence from Just and their failure to give any indication that the equity release mortgage could be 
transferred to the new property by the planned completion date of end August 2020, that 
my parents had no alternative but to take their house off the market and finance the 
purchase through alternative means.
I queried that as there would have been no reason for Mr and Mrs B to take their house off 
the market to finance the new purchase through alternative means, to which Mr B1 said:
Apologies - I have realised there is an unclear / inaccurate statement in the quote above. 
My parents did not take their house off the market. It stayed on the market for sale but 
there was a time when no house viewings were taking place due to the pandemic. As 
soon as viewings resumed, there was strong interest and a sale was agreed quickly
That tied in with what Mr B said when he spoke to Just Retirement on the phone in July. He 
said theyd had their property on the market for two days when the first lockdown hit in 
March, and nothing had happened since then. He said estate agents were just starting to 
open but there had been no visiting, so they were back at square one. 
I cant hold Just Retirement liable for the fact Mr and Mrs Bs existing property hadnt sold, 
and that a sale didnt complete until December. As Mr and Mrs B needed to complete on the 
purchase of their new property on 4 September, and their sale wasnt ready to complete until 
23 December (with Mr B saying on 27 July that the sale was still at square one, the 
implication being there hadnt been any viewings or offers), it seems Mr and Mrs B would 
always have needed an alternative way to finance the purchase.
This means, once we put aside all the issues over what Just Retirement may or may not 
have done, and should or should not have done, the outcome would have been exactly the 
same because Mr and Mrs Bs existing property hadnt sold in time for them to port their 
mortgage to the new property in September 2020.
For that reason, whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs B found 
themselves in and for what they went through, I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied the offer of £100 made by Just 
Retirement Money Limited was fair and reasonable. I leave it to Mr and Mrs B to contact Just 
Retirement directly to accept that sum (if they want to and havent already done so). Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman