DRN-3040971
The complaint
Ms J and Mr S complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Ms J and Mr S have the benefit of travel insurance as part of  
Mr S current account. He purchased upgrades to the policy so that it covered his family 
and worldwide travel. 
Ms J and Mr S planned a trip to South Asia, staying in two countries. Their departure 
date was 15 March 2020 and their intended return date was 16 April 2020. During their 
trip, Ms J and Mr S first destination country imposed travel bans and their flight to their 
second destination country was cancelled. Air travel was difficult, and Ms J and Mr S 
remained in their first destination country until 22 May 2020, when they returned home. 
Ms J and Mr S made a claim against their policy in relation to additional accommodation 
costs incurred as a result of their extended stay. UKI said that in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the policy, it couldnt settle the claim in full, but it offered to pay 
Ms J and Mr S £500, that is, £250 each, in relation to delay. It also offered compensation 
of £50 in relation to its handling of the claim. UKIs offer wasnt acceptable to Ms J and 
Mr S. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
acted unfairly. The investigator said that Ms J and Mr S policy doesnt cover what 
happened here and that UKI acted fairly in offering to deal with the claim under the delay 
section of the policy. 
Ms J and Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. Mr S said that the policy was mis-sold 
to him as a comprehensive policy. Ms J and Mr S asked that an ombudsman consider 
their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision deals with Ms J and Mr S complaint about how UKI handled their claim 
against the policy, as that is the complaint they initially put to UKI and in relation to which 
UKI has had an opportunity to respond. If Ms J and Mr S wish to pursue a complaint about 
the sale of the policy, they should complain to the business that sold the policy to them.
Ive considerable sympathy with Ms J and Mr S. Through no fault of their own, their trip was 
extended beyond their planned return date in what was no doubt very worrying 
circumstances. But I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these 
reasons:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover everything that might happen on a trip.  
An insurer will decide what risks it is willing to cover and set these out in the terms 
and conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy.
Ive looked carefully at the policy and theres no cover for a claim arising out of 
extending a trip in the circumstances which arose here. The cancellation and 
curtailment sections of the policy dont assist us, as Ms J and Mr S trip wasnt 
cancelled or cut short. 
Ive also considered the Missed, Delayed or Abandoned Departure section of the 
policy which provides some cover when the insured is unable to return to the UK on 
the planned return date. In that section, the Missed Departure or Connection 
cover is limited to claims arising from public transport delay, a car accident or 
breakdown or traffic delay. Thats not what happened here. The Delayed Return 
cover is limited to extra car parking and certain additional pet care costs. Thats not 
what Ms J and Mr S claimed. 
UKI dealt with Ms J and Mr S claim under the Delay Benefit section of the policy 
which provides:
We will pay £10 per insured person after the first two hours and an additional £10 
every following four hours up to a limit of £250 if you have arrived at  your point of 
departure or connection and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed. You 
must have already checked in.
Its not clear to me that Ms J and Mr S arrived at the airport to take the flight and that 
theyd checked in. But I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to deal with Ms J and 
Mr S claim under this part of the policy. 
UKI also offered Ms J and Mr S compensation of £50 in relation to its handling of 
their claim. There was some initial confusion on UKIs part about the claim and it 
asked for additional information which wasnt in fact required. I think that UKI dealt 
fairly with this part of the complaint in offering compensation of £50. 
Considering everything, I dont uphold Ms J and Mr S complaint as I think that the 
amount UKI has already offered to pay is fair. I dont require UKI to pay any more 
than its already offered. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Ms J and Mr S complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms J and Mr S complaint. If they wish to take up the 
offer UKI has previously made, they should contact it direct. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman