DRN-3955763
The complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by allowing him an overdraft and 
increasing his limit to £5,000 when it ought to have known he had a gambling disorder.  
What happened
Mr D held an account with an overdraft with a limit of £1,050 in June 2017. The overdraft 
limit was increased to £3,000 in February and £5,000 in March 2018. Mr D paid off his 
overdraft and closed the account in October 2018.
Mr D complained to Lloyds that it was irresponsible to approve an overdraft for him 
considering his gambling disorder which wouldve been apparent from the activity on his 
accounts. 
Lloyds said when deciding on whether to approve the lending it looked at Mr Ds income and 
expenditure as well as information held with external credit reference agencies and as Mr D 
passed all checked it agreed to the amount of borrowing requested.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns and didnt think there was anything 
within the credit checks and information Mr D provided when he applied for the overdraft that 
should have led to Lloyds questioning the lending. And although there was evidence of 
gambling, they didnt think there was enough evidence to conclude the overdraft was 
unsustainable. 
Mr D disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Ds complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr D 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Mr D was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So overall this means the checks 
Lloyds carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr D would 
be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
Lloyds says Mr Ds overdraft limit was increased to £1,050 in June 2017 and reached its 
highest limit of £5,000 in March 2018. Lloyds have also told us Mr D closed his account and 
paid off the overdraft in October 2018. I can see from Mr Ds bank statements for this period 
that prior to being approved for a limit increase Mr D was using his account mainly for 
gambling and other non-committed discretionary transactions and it doesnt appear to have 
any priority bills coming out. I can see that in the months leading up to the overdraft limit 
increases although Mr D did use his overdraft most months he saw and maintained a credit 
balance and had a healthy salary coming in. 
Lloyds have told us that Mr D applied for his overdraft limit increases online and his 
applications were fully credit scored taking into account information Mr D provided about his 
income and expenditure as well as information held by other external agencies provided 
through credit reference checks. Lloyds say no adverse information showed up on the credit 
checks carried out and Mr Ds application shows that he had incomings declared of £5,300 
and outgoings of £2,600. Based on this information Lloyds was satisfied his score was high 
enough to provide him with the overdraft facility and limits he requested.
I accept that Mr D was using the account for gambling, but it is not for Lloyds to decide what 
he spends his money on or his time doing. What Lloyds needed to decide was whether the 
repayments were sustainable, and the lending was affordable. I also accept his financial 
position may well have been worse than the credit checks carried out showed or in any 
information he disclosed to Lloyds at the time. And it is possible that further checks might 
have told Lloyds this. But Lloyds was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit check it carried 
out. And given the incomings into the account were enough to clear the overdraft on a 
monthly basis and Mr D didnt appear to have a problem meeting any of his priority bills I 
think Lloyds checks went far enough. 
So I dont agree that Lloyds acted irresponsibly by approving Mr D for an overdraft and the 
increased limits he requested. Lloyds carried out the appropriate credit check on Mr D and 
were entitled to rely on the information provided to it when assessing Mr Ds overdraft 
applications. And given the historical credits going into the account I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude Mr D would be able to repay the funds within a 
reasonable period of time. 
This means that I dont agree Lloyds provided Mr D with an overdraft unfairly or 
irresponsibly. That said, even though Mr Ds overdraft wasnt approved irresponsibly, Lloyds 
still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr D if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Ds account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr D fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr D unfairly or unreasonably though. I say this 
because having looked at Mr Ds statements I cant see anything to suggest that Lloyds 
ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
I accept that from around February 2018 Mr D did mainly use his overdraft for gambling and 
for large amounts. But as stated above Mr D was able to see a credit balance on a monthly 
basis and Ive seen nothing to show me that his priority bills werent being met elsewhere. 
And Mr D did manage to pay off his overdraft and close his account within seven months of 
his highest limit being approved. 
Of course this doesnt necessarily mean Mr D wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Lloyds to 
any potential financial difficulty. And in these circumstances, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did. So I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman