DRN-2556564
The complaint
Mr C complains about the fees and charges Santander UK Plc applied to his credit card 
account. Hes also unhappy with how he was treated when he tried to bring his account up to 
date. 
What happened
Mr C held a credit card with Santander with a credit limit of £3200. On around 22 August 
2019 he received a statement from Santander which outlined that hed exceeded his credit 
limit. An over limit fee of £12 was applied and Mr C was sent a default notice as a result.
In September and October 2019 Mr Cs account balance continued to exceed his credit limit. 
So, further over limit fees were incurred. And Santander sent him a default notice each 
month that his account remained over its agreed credit limit.
In November 2019, Santander wrote to Mr C to inform him that hed failed to make Octobers 
minimum monthly payment. It explained hed need to pay £130 by 18 December 2019. But, 
from 28 November 2019 onwards, Mr C said Santander began to contact him about the 
status of his account by telephone on a frequent basis  often during anti-social hours. He 
stated he felt harassed and unhappy that these calls were made prior to his payment 
deadline date. And he said these telephone calls continued until he was able to bring his 
account up to date.
On 9 December 2019, Mr C contacted Santander in order to make a payment towards his 
account balance. He wanted to use a debit card issued by another bank. But Santander 
informed him that he could only use a Santander debit card to pay his credit card balance. 
Santander said it offered to provide Mr C with generic account information to enable him to 
transfer funds to his credit card. But he declined and stated hed attend a branch instead in 
order to make the required payment.
Mr C was unhappy with what had happened and complained to Santander. It investigated 
his concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that, as a result of his account 
exceeding his credit limit, it was transferred to its collections team. Santander said, once this 
happens, its policy is that the collections team telephone a customer in efforts to try and offer 
support. It therefore felt it had correctly followed its process. But it accepted Mr C may have 
experienced frustration with the level of contact hed received. And so, it credited his account 
with £20 as a gesture of goodwill.
Being dissatisfied with Santanders response to his complaint Mr C referred it to our service. 
After our investigator assessed the evidence Mr C and Santander had provided, they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They agreed with how Santander had decided to 
resolve this complaint. And they thought the goodwill payment it had paid Mr C was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. But Mr C disagreed with our investigators view of this 
complaint.  So, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr C and Santander, but Ill 
concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide this complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it. Its because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr C experienced here. I can understand why hes 
frustrated by what happened and I can see how strongly he feels about his complaint. But 
while I emphasise with him, my role is to assess whether I think Santander made a mistake, 
or treated him unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.  
The first issue Ive thought about is whether Santander made an error in applying fees and 
charges to Mr Cs account and Ill explain why I dont think it did.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account explain in clear terms the circumstances in 
which fees and charges will be applied. These include scenarios where minimum monthly 
payments arent paid on time and where an account holder exceeds their agreed credit limit.
Based on the account statements Ive seen, its clear that Mr C exceeded his credit limit in 
August, September and October 2019. And, during the latter month, he also failed to make 
his minimum monthly payment. Given Mr Cs management of his account throughout these 
months I cant fairly say Santander acted contrary to the terms of his account, or that it did 
anything wrong, in applying fees and charges.
Mr C has expressed his unhappiness at how Santander treated, and communicated with, 
him after he missed a payment. So, Ive assessed whether it acted unreasonably here.
Santanders procedure is that, if a customer fails to make a minimum monthly payment, their 
account falls into arrears. While theres a grace period of up to three days  beyond this a 
customers card is restricted and their account is transferred to collections and recoveries. I 
can see this is outlined in the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account in clear and intelligible 
language. So, I think Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware that his card would be 
restricted, and his account transferred to recoveries, in the event of a missed payment.
Our service has seen evidence that demonstrates Santanders policies are such that, where 
an account enters collections and recoveries, it will communicate this in writing with a 
customer. And I can see that Mr C was sent a number of default notices about the status of 
his account, which outlined how Santander would deal with his account while it remained 
over its limit. It would be unfair for me to criticise Santander for sending correspondence 
about the status of his account to Mr C  its required to do that as a responsible lender. 
Ive thought about whether the telephone contact Mr C received about his account was 
unreasonable and unfair. Hes told Santander and our service he was concerned the calls he 
received were fraudulent. And I can appreciate his concerns. But I think, if hed been 
concerned the telephone contact wasnt genuine, he could have telephoned Santander to 
query the authenticity of the calls he was receiving. Ive seen nothing to suggest he did this.
I understand that Mr C may not have wanted Santander to contact him by telephone with the 
frequency it did. And I recognise that he felt harassed  with some contact taking place 
during anti-social hours. As our investigator explained, relevant regulations state that a business must not contact 
customers at unreasonable times and that it must pay regard to the reasonable requests of 
customers in respect of when, where and how they may be contacted. In this case theres 
evidence showing that Mr C didnt engage with Santander over the telephone. And this 
explains why it continued to contact him. Im persuaded that the frequency of the calls 
Santander made, most likely, have been reduced had Mr C answered and responded to the 
telephone calls he received. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that the efforts Santander 
made to contact Mr C were motivated by a desire to understand whether he was 
experiencing financial hardship  particularly given the way in which he was managing his 
account was largely out of character. I think this, again, demonstrates that Santander was 
trying to ensure it practiced responsible lending. Im not persuaded it made an error or acted 
unreasonably in contacting Mr C to discuss his account. And, overall, Im satisfied Santander 
properly followed its recoveries and collections process here.
Mr C has described the difficulties he encountered when he tried to make a payment over 
the telephone in order to bring his account up to date. Ive therefore considered whether 
Santander made an error in this regard.
Santander has explained that it doesnt accept payments from debit cards issued by other 
banks. I appreciate this may have caused Mr C inconvenience. But the terms of his account 
clearly outline how payments can be made. They also state that when making a payment via 
telephone or internet banking a customer needs to set up a bill payment with their bank 
using the details on their statement. 
Ive listened to a call recording Santander provided  during which Mr C was informed he 
couldnt use an external debit card to make a payment. The call handler offered to provide 
Mr C with generic account information to enable him to set up a payment instruction with his 
bank. He declined this. And I can see Santander provides the same information on account 
statements. Im satisfied, overall, that Mr C was offered sufficient information to assist him in 
bringing his account within the agreed credit limit. Its difficult to see how Santander could 
have done more to assist Mr C here.
I can appreciate that Mr C may wish our service to tell Santander to accept payments from 
external debit cards. But, as Ive already outlined, that would be contrary to the process 
Santander already has in place. The Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator. We 
provide informal dispute resolution. So, we dont have the power to tell Santander to change 
its policies regarding how it processes credit card payments. Its entitled to exercise its own 
commercial judgment about that. And that isnt something wed interfere with. 
Ill turn now to Mr Cs dissatisfaction with Santanders response to his complaint. Its clear he 
wanted the final response letter to be more detailed as he doesnt feel it adequately 
addresses his concerns. However, our service doesnt have the power to look at how 
financial businesses deal with complaint handling because its not a regulated activity under 
the legislation that governs our service. So, even if I did think Santander hadnt done things 
well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of Mr Cs concerns or make an 
award. I cant act outside the law. So, I comment any further on this issue.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Santander credited Mr Cs account with £20 
as a gesture of goodwill in efforts to resolve his concerns. He doesnt feel this adequately 
reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced. And I can see that, in his complaint 
form, Mr C has requested Santander make a further payment of £80. However, as Im not 
persuaded Santander acted unfairly or made an error here, I wouldnt have directed it to make any compensation or goodwill payments of part of this decision. I therefore wont be 
asking Santander to pay anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman