DRN-4214480
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly turned down his claim under 
section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).   
What happened
In 2017, Mr W  together with his wife  agreed to purchase a timeshare interest from a 
seller based outside of the UK and the EU. The product purchased provided rights to use 
nominated accommodation on a biennial basis with effect from 2018.
The cost of the timeshare purchased was US$17,990 (plus various additional costs and 
charges), subject to an initial down payment of US$1,799. Documentation suggests a 
Deposit of US$350 was paid on 7 November 2017 with two further payments of US$938.40 
required on 8 November 2017. Mr W says that payment was made using a credit card 
provided to him by Santander in his sole name.
On or around 26 October 2018, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mr W 
made a claim to Santander under the CCA. The CMC allege that Mr W purchased the 
timeshare having relied upon representations made by the seller which turned out not to be 
true, together with various contract breaches. And under S75, Santander is jointly liable for 
those misrepresentations and breaches.
In particular, the CMC suggest that the following statements of misrepresentation were made 
by the seller as benefits and features associated with the purchase of the timeshare:
the product is unique and limited and exclusive to members;
they wouldnt be able to find a similar deal at a better rate at any other resort;
purchase of the timeshare is an investment, and they would be eligible to rent out 
their interest;
the product would increase in value with an option to sell their interest for a profit; 
and
the seller agreed to extend the cooling off period that applied to 30 days.
In addition, the CMC allege that the seller was in breach of contract because:
they didnt provide a copy of the public offering statement in breach of local statutes 
that applied;
the seller falsely asserted the value of the property was US$18,413.80 and in doing 
so, breached the locally prevailing Commercial Code.
Mr Ws claim was declined by Santander having been initially investigated by them on 1 
February 2019 and reviewed again on 7 February 2019. As Mr W was unhappy with 
Santanders findings, the CMC submitted a complaint to Santander on his behalf. 
In their response, Santander didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said Mr W hadnt 
provided any further evidence to show an alleged breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the seller. Santander didnt think Mr W had a valid claim under S75 as the scenario isnt 
covered by this legislation.
Unhappy with Santanders response to his claim, Mr W asked the CMC to refer his complaint 
to this service. Having considered all the circumstances and evidence available, our 
investigator didnt think Santanders decision to turn down Mr Ws claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. In particular, our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence 
available to demonstrate that the seller had misrepresented the timeshare, or that theyd 
failed to perform one or more of the contract terms.
In response to our investigators findings, the CMC referenced various aspects of the 
contract and documentation that they believe supports Mr Ws claims. So, as an informal 
resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Ws complaint has been forwarded to me in order to reach 
a final decision.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, whilst I ultimately came to 
the same outcome as our investigator, Id considered certain aspects not previously 
addressed. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 23 May 2023  giving the 
CMC, Mr W and Santander the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reached a final 
decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. The 
CMC say Mr W paid for the timeshare products using his Santander credit card. So, 
this means that Mr W is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him under 
those provisions. As a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding 
whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
believe Santanders response to Mr Ws claim was fair and reasonable given all the 
evidence and information available to me, rather than deciding the legal claim itself. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont 
provide a legal service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the 
role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, 
this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address every single point thats been made in my decision. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Is there a valid claim under S75?
The effect of S75(1) is that a consumer who has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that 
claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or 
in part; andthat the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in 
contemplation of future arrangements between the credit provider and the 
supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card 
schemes such as Mastercard and Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing 
arrangements. 
The CMC have provided copies of documentation from the time of the sale. Its not 
entirely clear when this actually took place. Most of the documentation provided 
appears to be dated 7 November 2017. For me to establish whether Mr W has a valid 
claim under S75, there needs to be evidence that Santander provided funding in a 
form governed under the CCA. 
Ive considered a document dated 7 November 2017 headed Purchase and sale 
agreement and Escrow Instructions. It confirms a purchase price for the product of 
US$17,990 with a down payment required of US$2,222.80 (including costs). It says 
an initial deposit was made on that date of US$350 with two further payments - each 
of US$938.40  due the following day. Ive seen no evidence that any payments of 
these amounts were made, or if they were, that they were made using Mr Ws 
Santander credit card. 
However, Mr Ws credit card statement shows he made a payment of US$329.35 on 
1 November 2017  six days before the sale documentation. The fact that Santander 
have considered and investigated Mr Ws claim persuades me that a payment was in 
fact made to the seller using Mr Ws Santander credit card. And on that basis, Im 
satisfied that such arrangements were in place in this case, and so I have considered 
what Mr W has said about the sale. 
Misrepresentation and/or breach of contract
Its relevant to mention that the documentation associated with the purchase wasnt 
governed by UK law. But, as the claim here was made under the CCA, for the 
purpose of this decision, Ive approached this complaint on the assumption that the 
prevailing law recognises claims for misrepresentation in much the same way as UK 
law does. In other words, where an untrue statement of fact or law made by one 
party (or his agent) to a second party induces that second party to enter the contract, 
thereby causing them loss. In order to find a misrepresentation has occurred, there 
must be proof that a false statement of fact has been made and it needs to be 
decided that any false statement induced Mr W to enter into the agreement.
The CMC have provided limited details and evidence to support the 
misrepresentations Mr W says the seller made, although I have been provided with a 
statement from Mr W setting out his memories and acknowledge that he does say he 
was told these things. So, Ive thought about this alongside the evidence thats 
available from the time of the sale. 
Although not determinative of the matter, Ive not seen any specific evidence from the 
time of the sale, such as marketing material or any amendments or addendums to 
the purchase documentation. And whilst I have seen some purchase documentation, 
I cant see that it supports what Mr W says he was told or that what was said 
amounted to misrepresentation. 
I accept Mr Ws understanding of what he was sold may differ from what the relevant 
paperwork suggests. But, based on everything thats been said and/or provided so 
far, while I certainly dont doubt the honesty of his recollections, Ive not found 
anything that persuades me that one or more of the alleged misrepresentations were in fact made. I have no way of knowing what was or wasnt said at the time of the 
sale.
For there to be a breach of contract, I need to find evidence that one or other party to 
the contract failed to perform their obligations under that contract. I havent found or 
been provided with any evidence thats the case. Theres been no allegation that the 
seller failed to deliver upon anything included within the documentation that Ive seen 
from the time of the sale. So, I cant reasonably conclude that a breach of contract 
did in fact occur here.
The CMC suggest that the seller was in breach of contract for failing to provide a 
copy of the public offering statement. However, the sale agreement, which Mr W has 
signed, refers to the Public Offering Statement that each Purchaser receives upon 
execution 
It may be that the contract in this case might not comply with some UK regulations. 
And that might be something a UK court could consider if Mr W was to pursue his 
claim in the UK courts, either directly or to enforce a judgment obtained in the 
prevailing jurisdiction. However, I dont believe that it would be fair for me to do so in 
considering Mr Ws claim under S75.
In response to our investigators view of Mr Ws complaint, the CMC raised various 
points to support the claim. In particular, that various aspects of the documentation 
provided supports that there were misleading representations made. 
Specifically, the CMC point to various aspects of the documentation which supports 
that Mr W thought he was purchasing a bricks and mortar property rather than a 
timeshare. Having considered the original claim submitted by the CMC, theres no 
suggestion within the original claim that the timeshare Mr W purchased was 
represented correctly or incorrectly as bricks and mortar. And, as a result, to what 
extent Mr W suffered loss as a result of any such misrepresentation. In any event, I 
believe the documentation makes it clear that all reference to property only relates 
specifically to the timeshare interest purchased here  the Purchase and Sale 
Agreement that Mr W signed refers to this.
The CMC also point to a Disclosure Statement in which reference is made to 
reversions, remainders, rents, profits, easements, appurtenances. The CMC 
suggest the reference to rent supports Mr Ws allegation that there was a promise 
of rental income. Ive not been able to find the particular document referred to here. 
And in any event, Ive found nothing that suggests that any ability Mr W has (or 
doesnt have) to rent out his interest under a private agreement:
was represented as a feature or benefit of the product;
meant that the purchase constituted a financial investment; or
included a promise or assurance of rental income.
On a final point, the CMC subsequently raised various concerns about the provision 
of finance in relation to timeshare purchases and the practices adopted by the seller. 
But any finance Mr W was offered specific to this timeshare purchased wasnt 
governed by the CCA. Any payment that falls under the CCA was said to have been 
made using Mr Ws credit card with Santander under a pre-existing agreement. So, I 
dont find the comments particularly relevant in Mr Ws case.
Summary
Its not for me to say whether Mr W has a valid claim against the seller of the 
timeshare. Or whether, if he does, he could bring that claim against Santander. What 
I must do is determine whether I believe Santanders response to Mr Ws complaint was fair and reasonable. And in these circumstances, I think it was. So, I dont intend 
to ask Santander to do anything more here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I want to apologise for certain typing errors in my provisional decision where I 
incorrectly referred to Mr W using another initial. Having corrected this within the wording 
above, I dont believe this ultimately has a bearing on the substance and findings within my 
decision.
Both Santander and the CMC have confirmed they received my provisional decision. 
Santander have confirmed theyve nothing further to add. The CMC asked me to agree to an 
extension in order that they could consult with Mr W before formally responding. Having 
done so, Ive not received any further evidence or comments to consider.
In the circumstances, having not seen anything that persuades me to vary from my original 
findings, I wont be asking Santander to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman