DRN-3194637
The complaint
Ms H complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) lent irresponsibly when it increased her 
credit card limit.
What happened
Ms H opened a credit card account with Aqua in early 2018. But within a few months the 
credit limit had more than doubled. And by the end of the first year her credit limit was over 
four times the original amount. 
Ms H says she accepted the credit increases but is unhappy they were applied 
automatically. She began to find it difficult to repay her debt as the year progressed. And she 
didnt think Aqua had lent fairly to her. The debt caused her a great deal of anxiety and 
stress. So shed like an apology and a full refund of all of the interest and fees charged since 
she opened the account. And Ms H wants any adverse reporting removed from her credit 
file.  
Aqua said when Ms H opened her account she had no adverse credit problems and a gross 
income of around £16000. Ms H met its criteria and shed been offered a credit limit of £450. 
Aqua said it regularly checked how customers were using their account as well as other 
credit commitments. Ms H had been given 40 days-notice of each increase. And she 
couldve opted out if she wanted to.
Ms H had first contacted Aqua in July 2019 to say she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
And a repayment plan had been set up to help her. The account had been closed in March 
2020 and the outstanding debt had been passed to a debt recovery unit.  And Aqua felt the 
checks carried out before each increase had shown they were affordable.
Ms H wasnt satisfied with Aquas response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator didnt think Aqua had acted fairly. It 
shouldnt have given Ms H some of the lending it did. She felt it was reasonable for Aqua to 
offer Ms H a small credit of £450 when she opened her account. 
And she didnt feel Aqua had acted unreasonably when itd increased the credit limit to 
£1100 in July 2018. There was nothing to suggest Ms H was overcommitted or having 
financial difficulties.
But when Aqua increased the credit limit to £1850 in November 2018 Ms Hs outstanding 
debts with other lenders had increased to nearly £900. And there were signs Ms H was 
struggling to maintain the credit she already had with Aqua. 
The balance in October was over the agreed limit. And thered been late payment fees and a 
returned direct debit. With her commitments to other lenders our investigator didnt think it 
was reasonable for Aqua to have increased the credit limit to £1850 in November. 
So in brief she said Aqua should remove any interest and charges incurred as a result of the 
credit limit increase in November 2018. 
Any repayments made by Ms H should be used to reduce the remaining balance. And any 
negative information should be removed from Ms Hs credit file from November 2018 
onwards. 
Aqua didnt agree with our investigator. It didnt think a late payment or being over the credit 
limit was sufficient to say it was inappropriate to increase the credit limit without further 
checks. And the information it had showed other debts of around £600 at the time it 
considered the increased. It wasnt aware of the higher figure at the time. So its asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms H has experienced. She feels if Aqua had carried 
out better checks it wouldnt have given her a credit card and then increased the limit. So 
Ive looked carefully at everything Ms H and Aqua have said to see if Aqua has done 
anything wrong. And if so what it needs to do to put things right.
Ms H applied for a credit card with Aqua in February 2018. She said she had an income of 
£16000. Aqua carried out an affordability assessment and credit check before approving a 
credit card with a limit of £450. In July 2018 Aqua increased the limit to £1100. And in 
November it was increased again to £1850. Aqua says it took into account how Ms H was 
managing her account as well as her credit file. And both increases were approved in line 
with its lending criteria.
So the first thing I need to look at is whether I think Aqua carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook details the sort 
of assessment Aqua needed to carry out. Aqua is free to decide how to set its own lending 
criteria. But it has to complete proportionate checks to ensure the borrowing is sustainable.
Ive looked at the affordability data Aqua has provided. The opening credit limit is modest 
and theres no history of credit or payment problems. So I think Aqua carried out 
proportionate checks when deciding to offer Ms H a credit card account and when setting the 
limit at £450.
In July 2018 Aqua increased the credit limit to £1100. Although that was a considerable 
increase within five months of the account opening there was nothing to show Ms H was 
experiencing any financial difficulties at the time. She had low levels of debt with other 
lenders although thered already been one late payment fee applied to her account. Overall I 
think the levels of checks Aqua carried out were sufficient and proportionate. 
When Aqua increased Ms Hs credit limit in November to £1850 it carried out the same level 
of checks. And it felt the increase was affordable. But the previous month Ms H had again 
suffered a late payment fee. And shed exceeded the current credit limit, incurring further 
fees. The October direct debit payment had also been returned unpaid. 
Aqua says her credit with other lenders was around £600 at the time it approved the 
increase. It only rose to around £900 shortly afterwards. 
But Ms H was clearly beginning to find it difficult to meet her monthly repayment 
commitments. Shed exceeded her existing credit limit. And further checks wouldve shown 
that Miss H was only receiving maternity pay at the time while increasing her commitment to 
other lenders.Based on what Ive seen I dont think Ms H was able to manage a higher credit limit in a 
sustainable manner at this point. I agree with out investigator that Aqua lent irresponsibility 
when it increased Ms Hs credit limit to £1850.
Where we find credit has been lent irresponsibly our general approach is to direct the lender 
to refund the interest and charges but not the capital borrowed. Ms H has had use of this. 
And we ask the lender to remove any adverse information on the borrowers credit file from 
the date of the irresponsible lending onwards.
Putting things right
As I think Aqua lent irresponsibly Im going to direct it to refund all interest, fees and charges 
applied to Ms Hs credit card as a result of the November 2018 limit increase. This means 
from November 2018 Aqua can only add interest accrued on a balance up to £1100.
Any repayments made by Ms H should be used to reduce the adjusted balance. If there is an 
outstanding balance Aqua should look to set up a suitable repayment plan with Ms H. If 
there are funds now owed to Ms H they should be repaid with 8% simple interest from the 
date of overpayment to the date of settlement. 
I also dont agree it is fair for Aqua to report adverse information about a debt that was lent 
irresponsibly. So Im going to tell Aqua to remove any negative information from Ms Hs 
credit file from November 2018 onwards. And it should not be reapplied if any remaining 
balance is repaid within a reasonable period of time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd must take the steps 
Ive outlined under putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman