DRN-1722683
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. At the point of supply the car was 10 years old and had 
covered 64,000 miles.
Within the first month the car went into limp mode. Mr H took the car back to the dealership 
who diagnosed a problem with the glow plugs and the EGR valve. Repairs were carried out 
in January 2019.
In November 2019 Mr H experienced further issues when the car broke down. He contacted 
Close Brothers an raise da complaint about the quality of the car.
Close Brothers said that because the engine issues had occurred more than 6 months after 
the point of supply it was up to Mr H to provide a report confirming what the current fault was 
and that it would have been present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr H provided a report from a local garage. Close Brothers also spoke to the garage and 
conclude that the issue was due to wear and tear. Mr H obtained another report from a  
different garage, but Close Brothers said the report didnt confirm that the engine issues 
were due to a point of supply fault.  It also said it had considered the previous repairs but 
concluded these were serviceable items.
Mr H paid over £2000 to have the engine repaired himself. He complained to this service 
because he feels that Close Brothers treated him unfairly. He wants the cost of repairs 
refunded.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the fault with the engine was due to an issue which wouldve been present at the point 
of supply.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the initial report hed obtained from the local garage was based 
on a  visual inspection only and that its opinion that the fault was related to the timing belt 
had subsequently been proved to be incorrect. He felt that the garage wasnt competent to 
give a professional opinion that the issue was caused by wear and tear. Mr H also felt that 
the replacement of the EGR valve within a short time of the point of supply showed that the 
car hadnt been properly serviced before it was sold to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as amongst other this the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
I would expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr H  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require more frequent repairs than a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the 
car, as opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed to have been present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer 
to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr H and Close Brothers disagree about whether the fault was present at the point of supply. 
In order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and determine, on 
the balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality. 
I can see that repairs were carried out in January 2019 to the glow plugs and the EGR valve. 
From what Ive seen, these repairs were successful, and Mr H didnt report any further 
problems until November 2019. 
Ive looked at the reports obtained by Mr H from the local garages. The first garage told 
Close Brothers that the issue was due to wear and tear. I appreciate that Mr H doesnt place 
a great deal of faith in this report because (he says) the garage misdiagnosed the fault. I 
understand why Mr H feels this way. But just because the first garage got things wrong 
diagnostically doesnt automatically mean that the true fault was present at the point of 
supply.
The report from the second garage says the engine is knocking, the big end bearings are 
worn and the crankshaft is ruined. It says the car hasnt been serviced recently and has 
been run on low oil. It says the car has covered 5000 miles since the point of supply and that 
the wear to the engine could not have been done over that mileage.
The second garage is more supportive of Mr Hs case. However, I dont think the report goes 
far enough in terms of showing that the engine fault was present at the point of supply. It 
also suggests that the issue could have been caused by running the car on low oil, which is 
a service and maintenance obligation of Mr H.
On balance, I dont think the report from the second garage is sufficient to discharge the 
burden of proof, which falls on Mr H, to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. 
Ive taken into account the repairs carried out in January 2019. If there had been low oil at 
this point, and/or worn bearings, I think this wouldve been identified by the garage. Further, 
if there was a fault with the  engine at the point of supply, I wouldve expected this to present 
itself sooner than 10 months into the agreement, given that the engine is an integral part of 
the car.
Taking the age and mileage of the car into consideration, and based on the available 
evidence, Im not persuaded that there is enough to show that the engine fault was present 
or developing at the point of supply. So, I cant conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. I wont be asking Close Brothers to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint,Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman