DRN-2965241
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC gave her an overdraft limit which she couldnt afford
and continued to apply charges to her overdrawn account when she was in financial
difficulty.  
What happened
Ms W has a current account with Lloyds. In 2014, Ms W challenged the fairness of the
arranged and unarranged overdraft charges she was incurring on her account. Lloyds
reviewed Ms Ws account at that time and agreed to reimburse Ms W a total of £875, which
they paid to Ms W in February 2015 and which put Ms Ws account into a credit position.
In 2019, Ms W raised a complaint with Lloyds on the basis that she was unhappy with the
continuing charges that she was incurring on her overdraft. Lloyds looked at Ms Ws
complaint, but they felt that the charges that had been applied to Ms Ws account had been
done so legitimately, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms W wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. While they commended Lloyds for
reimbursing the charges to Ms Ws account that they had in February 2015, they felt that
Lloyds had done so because Ms W had demonstrated that she had been in financial
difficulty, and that Lloyds hadnt confirmed that Ms W wasnt still in financial difficulty before
they started applying charges to Ms Ws overdrawn account balance again.
Because of this, our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ws
favour and that Lloyds should reimburse all charges incurred on the account since February
2015 back to Ms Ws account and remove all adverse information relating to this account
from Ms Ws credit file from that date.
Lloyds didnt respond to the recommendations put forward by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 July 2021 as follows:
Lloyds didnt initially respond to the view put forward by our investigator. However, 
Lloyds have subsequently responded and stated that they dont feel that a 
reimbursement of all overdraft charges from February 2015 is merited in this 
instance.
One of the reasons that Lloyds give for their position is that, when Lloyds reimbursed 
£875 to Ms W in February 2015, this reimbursement took Ms Ws current account to 
a credit position, and that following this, Ms W voluntarily took her current account 
back into an overdrawn state.
Ive reviewed Mr Ws current account bank statements surrounding this time, and 
having done Ive seen that, following the receipt of the £875 from Lloyds in February 
2015, Ms Ws account balance stood approximately £50 in credit.
At this time, Ms W made a transfer of £500 from her current account into her Lloyds 
savings account, taking her current account balance from a position of credit to a 
position of being approximately £450 overdrawn.
Because of this, it doesnt feel fair to me to instruct Lloyds to reimburse incurred 
overdraft charges to Ms Ws account from February 2015, in the manner that our 
investigator has recommended here. And I say this because Im satisfied that Ms Ws 
act of transferring £500 from her current account to her savings account does 
represent a voluntary, and nonessential, use of her overdraft at that time.
Lloyds further explained that, while they dont feel that a refund of all charges from 
February 2015 onwards is fair in this instance, they have been able to establish that 
Ms W made contact on 1 August 2017 and asked them to reduce her overdraft limit 
in monthly increments moving forwards from that date  a request which Lloyds were 
unable to implement.
Lloyds have explained that they feel that a full review of Ms Ws financial position 
should have been undertaken at that time and the relevant financial assistance 
provided  but this didnt take place.
Because of this, Lloyds have suggested the following remedial steps:
A reimbursement to Ms Ws account of all interest, fees, and charges applied to 
the account from 1 August 2017.
If this reimbursement results in Ms Ws account being returned to a position of 
credit, any credit balance would be reimbursed to Ms W along with 8% interest.
The removal of all adverse credit file reporting relating to this account from 1 
August2017 onwards.
The removal of Ms Ws overdraft facility moving forwards (on the provision that 
the reimbursement stated above will leave Ms Ws account with a credit balance).
Lloyds suggestions here seem fair and reasonable to me, and I can confirm that they 
are commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances 
here.
As such, my provisional decision will be that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds on 
the basis outlined above.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Ms W and Lloyds the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Ms W didnt provide any comments or further information, while Lloyds confirmed 
that they were happy to accept my provisional decision.As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision on the same basis as outlined in my 
provisional decision, and therefore my final decision will be that I uphold this complaint 
against Lloyds on the basis described above.
  
Putting things right
Lloyds must reimburse to Ms Ws account all interest, fees, and charges applied to the 
account from 1 August 2017.
If these reimbursements result in the account being in a credit balance in Ms Ws favour, 
Lloyds must pay this credit balance to Ms W along with 8% simple interest.
Lloyds must remove all adverse reporting relating to this account from Ms Ws credit file from 
1 August 2017 onwards.
Finally, if the reimbursements referenced above result in Ms Ws account having a credit 
balance in her favour, Lloyds may elect to remove the overdraft facility from Ms Ws account 
moving forwards. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman