DRN-2415977
The complaint
V, a management company, complains that Zurich Insurance PLC has declined its claim 
under a block residential policy for water damage.
What happened
In 2018 there were reports of leaks into two top floor flats of the block, which were thought to 
be entering around the windows. In December 2018, the windows company provided a 
report suggesting repairs to the windows. A claim was made in January 2019. Zurich 
appointed loss adjusters who advised that V would need to obtain a report to investigate the 
leak before it could consider the claim. As the flats were on the top floor and as scaffolding 
had to be put in place the investigations cost in the region of £25,000. 
The survey was carried out in April 2019. Its conclusions were that essentially water 
(presumably rainwater) was entering due to there being no damp proof membrane (DPM) 
and through the unsealed jointing seams of the bull nose cladding panels.
Zurich declined the claim as it said there was no external damage caused by an insured 
peril. In respect of the internal damage it could only consider that under accidental damage, 
but there is an exclusion for inherent vice, latent defect or gradual deterioration. It 
considered the lack of a damp proof membrane (DPM) to be a latent defect. After further 
complaint from V, Zurich said also that the lack of sealing to the jointing was also a latent 
defect.
On referral to this service V pointed out that it was Zurich that required it to get the report, 
and that it at least expected to get the cost of it refunded. It also said that it believed the 
claim should be covered as an escape of water, due to it entering behind the cladding 
panels.
Our investigator thought that Zurich had acted reasonably, and the claim wasnt covered.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy here is a type of all risks policy, the wording in the policy being:
Provided it is shown as insured in the Schedule and occurs at the premises we will pay for 
damage (unless it is excluded) to the buildings.
The schedule says:
The policy cover provided by this buildings insurance is on a bespoke All Risks market 
wording basis including subsidence, accidental damage, damage to underground services, 
loss of rent or alternative accommodation and the reinstatement of the building including 
professional fees, subject to the application of policy terms and conditions.
And, going back to the policy, that sets out a list of perils which apply only in so far as they 
are set out in the schedule. In this case unless the damage specifically comes under 
accidental damage, subsidence or damage to underground services its otherwise generally 
covered. If cover is under one of those specific perils then the policy terms relating to those 
perils apply. In this case I think its fair to say that there was no damage to the outside of the 
building. The internal damage by water coming in was caused by the lack of a DPM and the 
unsealed bull nose cladding panels. For the internal damage I think it fair to categorise that 
as accidental damage. Theres is an exclusion under the accidental damage cover for:
damage due to or consisting of:
i) inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration.
The conclusions of the report obtained by V were that:
1 The entry point of water is by way of the fact there is no perimeter EPDM membrane.
 
2 The entry point for the water is through the unsealed jointing seems [sic] of the bull nose 
cladding panels.
Both of those appear to me to be latent defects.  So unfortunately the internal damage isnt 
in my view covered.
Ive considered Vs point that this is an escape of water. I dont think it appropriate to regard 
it as that as that usually applies to escapes from water pipes, tanks or domestic appliances. 
The rain coming in is not an escape as such.
As regards the cost of carrying out the report, I appreciate that there was a very high cost to 
this and that Zurich asked for a report. But I can see no indication that Zurich agreed to be 
liable for those costs. This is a commercial policy and the property is managed by an 
experienced firm of surveyors. So I think it fair first of all that it was asked to get a report, and 
as Zurich didnt accept liability, the costs Im afraid fall on the property owners. And the 
report wasnt just for Zurich, it was useful in diagnosing the problem and what needed to be 
done about it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman