DRN-3588277
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain about multiple errors by Al Rayan Bank PLC in relation to their 
home purchase plan and application. Mr K has dealt with the complaint. He says Al Rayan 
intentionally down valued the property they wanted to buy. Mr K says they lost over £2,500 
and had to move into rented accommodation. He asks that Al Rayan improves its processes 
and staff training, investigates its down valuing of properties and pays compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had a home purchase plan (HPP) with Al Rayan. They wanted to move home. 
Mr K says Al Rayan caused delays with the redemption of the HPP when they sold their 
property. He says its unfair for Al Rayan to apply a fee in relation to the redemption when he 
did all the work and chasing to ensure it happened.
Mr K is also unhappy with the process for applying for a new HPP. He says the property he 
wanted to buy was undervalued, which reduced the amount Al Rayan would lend. And he 
was asked to re-send documents hed already provided. 
Our investigator said Al Rayan was entitled to make a decision about the amount it would 
lend. Our investigator said while Al Rayan had followed its process when asking for 
documents to support Mr and Mrs Ks application and when providing a redemption 
statement, there had been some poor service when Mr K called about the redemption and 
recommended Al Rayan pay £150 compensation. 
Al Rayan didnt agree, saying there was no bank error to justify payment of compensation. It 
said it was unfair to say it failed to provide a good service or was responsible for delays with 
the redemption of Mr Ks mortgage when the matter was being dealt with by the solicitors.
Mr K didnt agree either. He asked how compensation of £150 was arrived at when he was 
charged a redemption fee of £240. He said the investigator hadnt investigated Al Rayans 
pattern of down-valuing properties. He said Al Rayan hadnt given the valuer the correct 
purchase price.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms Ks complaints about Al Rayan fall into three main areas: the redemption 
process; the property valuation; and the mortgage application process. 
The redemption process
Mr K asked for a redemption statement on 16 July 2021 (a Friday) with redemption planned 
for 26 July 2021. Al Rayan sent the redemption statement to its solicitors on 19 July 2021, 
the next working day. It says its solicitors received the redemption statement on 22 July 
2021. 
Al Rayan says the process was then in the hands of the solicitors until it received the 
redemption funds. It says its solicitors received documents from Mr and Mrs Ks solicitors on 
26 July 2021. It provided emails between the solicitors which support this. Al Rayan received 
the redemption funds on 28 July 2021. However, it backdated the redemption to 26 July 
2021 and waived the rent due up to 28 July 2022. I havent seen any evidence that Mr and 
Mrs K suffered a financial loss due to the redemption monies arriving two days later than 
planned.
Theres no doubt though that Mr K was worried about everything being in place for the 
planned completion date. He made 12 calls to Al Rayan during this time, as well as sending 
emails. 
There was a short time period between Mr K asking for the redemption statement and the 
planned completion date. Al Rayan wasnt responsible for this timing, although it might have 
helped matters if it had told Mr K at the outset that this could be problematic. Ive listened to 
recordings of the phone calls during this time. I dont agree that Al Rayan spoke to Mr K 
inappropriately. I 
Mr K was concerned that Al Rayan (or its solicitor) needed to send draft documents to his 
solicitor before completion, despite Al Rayan telling him this wasnt its process. Mr K was 
frustrated that the people he spoke to at Al Rayan didnt understand what he was asking for. 
But Al Rayan was following its usual process, and I cant fairly hold it responsible for Mr K 
expecting it to do things differently. 
Mr K was also was concerned that Al Rayan hadnt sent the redemption statement to its 
solicitors. I think Al Rayan could have been more helpful here. Al Rayan posted the 
redemption statement and it arrived almost a week after Mr K requested it  this was only 
two working days before completion. It must have been frustrating for Mr K to be told by his 
solicitor they didnt have the redemption statement when Al Rayan told him it had sent it. Al 
Rayan told Mr K it was still looking into this two working days before the completion date. Al 
Rayan might have been following its usual process when it posted the redemption 
statement, and it isnt responsible for any postal delays. I dont know if its internal policy 
meant it couldnt send the redemption statement by a quicker means (such as fax or secure 
email). But I think it could at least have better explained what was happening with the 
redemption statement, given the short time to completion and Mr Ks obvious worry. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Al Rayan to refund its 
administration fee. The HPP was redeemed, and Al Rayan carried out the necessary tasks 
to achieve this. Some of Mr Ks worry related to matters (such as draft documents between 
the solicitors) which Al Rayan told him werent necessary. But I think its fair for Al Rayan to 
pay compensation for the unnecessary worry caused by it not explaining the timing and 
process with the redemption statement better. I think compensation of £150 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The property valuation
Al Rayan requires a valuation of the potential security property before offering a mortgage. 
This is to help it decide whether the property is suitable security. Al Rayan instructed a 
suitably qualified valuer, a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, to carry 
out the valuation. The surveyor valued the property at £410,000, which was the purchase 
price Mr and Mrs K had originally agreed with the seller.
Another buyer was interested in the property and Mr and Mrs K agreed to pay £420,000. 
They needed to borrow more to fund this. I can understand Mr Ks frustration that Al Rayan 
didnt agree the property was worth more than the valuation, or agree to lend more. But I dont think it had to do so. Theres some dispute about whether or not the valuer was (or 
should have been) aware that Mr and Mrs K had agreed to pay more. Either way, this 
doesnt change my view. I cant see that there was an obvious error in the valuation that Al 
Rayan should have challenged the surveyor about, or which made it unreasonable to rely on 
the valuation.
Mr K says we need to take into account that this was part of a pattern of properties being 
down-valued. Al Rayan provided the valuation report for a previous application and I can see 
that this property was also valued by a qualified surveyor. 
I think Al Rayan is entitled to ask for a valuation to be carried out on its behalf, and to rely on 
the expert opinion of the surveyor. 
The application process
I think its reasonable for Al Rayan to ask for up to date documents (it says it requires the 
latest three months pay slips and bank statements) to support an application for a HPP. Mr 
and Mrs K had provided documents for a previous application. Some of these would have 
been out of date, although Mr K had sent some updated documents in May and June 2021. 
Al Rayan asked Mr and Mrs K to provide these documents again, to support the new 
application. It says its usual process is to ask for all documents again when a new 
application is started. I appreciate there was some inconvenience for Mr K in re-sending 
documents. But I can also understand that it was Al Rayans process to ask for all the 
required documents for a new application, rather than review previous applications and send 
a list of what remained outstanding or needed to be updated. 
Given this was Al Rayans usual process, and there was inevitably some inconvenience in 
having to send outstanding/updated documents anyway, I dont think its fair and reasonable 
to require Al Rayan to pay further compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Al Rayan Bank PLC to pay £150 to Mr and 
Mrs K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman