DRN-4053671
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) havent been able to 
resolve issues hes experienced while trying to login to his NS&I online account.
What happened
Mr C couldnt login to his NS&I premium bond account and felt the issue had arisen following 
a change NS&I had made to its login process. Mr C contacted NS&I about the issue, but he 
remained unable to login to his online account. Mr C wasnt happy about this, or with the 
long hold times hes experienced when trying to contact NSI, and so he raised a complaint.
NS&I apologised to Mr C and explained the alternative ways he could access his account. 
NS&I also paid £75 to Mr C as compensation for any trouble and upset hed incurred. Mr C 
wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They agreed that Mr C had been 
inconvenienced by not being able to login to his NS&I account, but they noted that NS&I 
were trying to resolve the issue and felt the £75 that NS&I had paid to Mr C already 
represented fair compensation for the trouble and inconvenience Mr C had. Mr C remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that NS&I have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr C has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr C for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr C notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr C and NS&I. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
 
I can appreciate Mr Cs frustration at not being able to login to his premium bond account 
online. But having reviewed the information submitted by both Mr C and NS&I, Im satisfied 
that NS&I are trying to resolve the issue but unfortunately havent yet been able to do so.
NS&Is lack of success in this regard leads me to consider the possibility that the source of 
the issue might lie outside NS&Is area of control. And I note that Mr C has been unwilling to 
follow some requests from NS&I, such as attempting to login via a different web browser, 
which may have mitigated against the problems Mr C has been experiencing. 
Additionally, while Mr C has been inconvenienced by not being able to login online, NS&I 
have explained how he can manage his account via other channels. These include via 
phone or via online or postal form for withdrawals, and by phone, post, or faster payment for 
deposits. And given these alternatives that remain available to Mr C, I dont feel the level of 
inconvenience hes experienced can reasonably be considered as being significant. 
Im aware that Mr C has contacted NS&I by telephone on several occasions and is unhappy 
with the long hold times hes experienced as well as NS&Is use of virtual assistants for 
incoming calls. But the use of a virtual assistant system to direct inbound calls is a 
commercial decision that NS&I are entitled to make. And it isnt in NS&Is control as to how 
many people are attempting to contact it at any one time, which can lead to long hold times. 
And while I accept that this is frustrating for Mr C, I dont feel that this is unfair. 
Finally, NS&I have explained that Mr C holds £25 of premium bonds, which is the minimum 
amount that can be held. And I feel that this is a relevant factor when considering the impact 
of these events on Mr C, because I feel being unable to login and monitor an account that 
holds £25 of premium bonds is less impactful than being unbale to login and monitor an 
account which holds a larger amount of premium bonds, which can be held up to a 
maximum amount of £50,000.
All of which means that I feel the response that NS&I have issued to Mr Cs complaint, 
including payment of £75 compensation, already represents a fair outcome here. And it 
follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NS&I to take any further action.
My position here is in consideration that NS&I are working to try to resolve the issue Mr C 
has experienced, that alternative means to access his account are available to Mr C, and 
that the impact of these events on Mr C doesnt appear to be significant such that I feel the 
£75 compensation already paid to Mr C by NS&I is a fair amount. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was wanting here, but I trust hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman