DRN-3460204
complaint
Mr C and Ms C say Santander UK Plc, Abbey National at the time, mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
background
Mr C complained of PPI sold with a mortgage in the 1980s. Forms sent by Mr C and Ms C to 
us referred to a date of sale in the 1980s. 
Santander hasnt identified any PPI policy sold in the 1980s. But it has said the insurer 
identified a PPI policy for Mr C with a premium history that started in 1993 and ended in 
1995  and Santander has accepted it sold this. In my decision Ive considered whether that 
policy was mis-sold.
Mr C and Ms Cs circumstances in 1993, as summarised by them for us, were set out by our 
adjudicator previously. I wont repeat all that here.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 in which I said that, from what Id seen so 
far, I didnt think the policy was mis-sold  and also I didnt think Santander needed to refund 
any of the commission Mr C and Ms C paid on the policy.
Mr C and Ms C disagreed with my conclusions and raised further points. Ive considered all 
their points but, by way of summary, these included, in brief:
They continue to believe PPI was taken with the mortgage in the 1980s. They believed 
PPI from their first house wouldve been taken forward to their second house. They did 
not believe the PPI sale was in 1993. Changes to their mortgage in 1993 were likely due 
to a switch from endowment to repayment. They recall no changes to PPI. As far as they 
recall, PPI passed to the new property.
They asked whether the policy referred to in my decision was the policy, and policy 
number, they had referred to in their correspondence.
They questioned what Id said about the PPI ending in 1995, as nothing changed in their 
relevant underlying circumstances at that time. They said a two-year policy sounds 
ridiculous, the end date is hard to believe and no extraordinary events happened then.
They asked what mortgage account number I was referring to when I referred to a 
mortgage running in 1993 being replaced, at the latest, in December 2002. 
They asked what mortgage account number I referred to that started in December 2002 
and ended in July 2006, noting again that these dates didnt relate to anything in their 
relevant underlying circumstances at the time (like a house move). 
They found it difficult to follow the Plevin provision and what Id said about 6 April 2008 
and December 2002.
They say Santanders points lack credibility, having for five years denied there was PPI.  
They disagreed with my view that any complaint handling errors made in recent years by 
Santander were not an indication that Santander got things wrong when the PPI was 
sold (which I said was in 1993). They said they dont recall signing further documents or 
having options explained in 1993 so the faults from the sale in the 1980s were carried 
silently on to 1993.
They say it is common for consumers to take unnecessary insurance - salesmen can 
easily mis-sell to make commission. They continue to believe the PPI was mis-sold.
They say the PPI was not needed. Accidents causing work absences of more than six 
months are uncommon. Life is a risk and insuring against everything would mean not 
having money for the basics of life. 
Mr C and Ms C had also previously provided further points in reply to our adjudicator. For 
ease of reference, these included:
They took the PPI unaware that it was optional - or feeling that taking it would help them 
obtain the mortgage. They recall being told getting the PPI would help get the mortgage, 
and they felt pressure applied there. They were not advised PPI was optional. Santander 
hasnt given information to show options were given. Their financial security isnt enough 
to confirm they were offered options. They werent offered options.
They didnt need the PPI. They had a stable financial position which indicates PPI was 
not needed rather than that it was needed. They were covered in other ways anyway. 
Being eligible for the PPI doesnt mean they needed it. 
Our review of the documents sent regarding communications with Santander wasnt of 
sufficient depth to expose Santanders neglect and shallow investigation. Up to now our 
conclusions lean too easily in favour of Santander when it - and what it recalls - is 
discredited by its earlier failures. Santanders memory of events is selective.
Santander failed to identify the PPI policy when Mr C and Ms C first enquired in 2016 
and this casts doubt on Santanders credibility and answers  so we should side with 
Mr C and Ms C where issues are tied.
Mr C and Ms C have asked to see the policy and the premium records. As my provisional 
decision said, all the details I have of the policy are contained in, or derived from, summary 
information provided by the insurer. I dont have a copy of the policy  and I dont think a 
policy document or printed version of it exists any longer. I also dont have a copy of the 
premium records  what I have is a summary from the insurer of what their, limited, records 
say about the policy. This includes the start and end date of premiums for the policy. My 
provisional decision set out in full the information that the summary contained. 
To summarise again what I said there about the summary:
It said the policyholder was Mr C. It gave the policy number Mr C and Ms C have 
referred to. It said the first premium was in August 1993 and the last in August 1995. It 
gave the premium amount (as set out previously by our adjudicator) but the first premium 
amount stated is three times this amount. So most likely the actual start of the policy was 
June 1993.
It quotes a three-letter code (followed by the word Abbey). Santander says this code 
indicates the type of PPI sold. According to Santander, it can tell from this the nature of the cover, benefit length and excess period. Santander says the benefits here were for 
accident and sickness, payable for 36 months, and for unemployment for 12 months - all 
with an eight-week excess period. Mr C and Ms C havent provided anything to suggest 
anything else. If there were evidence to show the benefits were different, Santander has 
said it would review this. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the benefits were different, 
also I dont see that a change in the detail of the benefits would affect the outcome here.
It says that the policy is on its archive system, so there is limited information. Indeed the 
information we have been given is as Ive outlined above. There is nothing else on the 
summary from the insurer.
In reply to the provisional decision, Mr C and Ms C quoted a policy number and asked if this 
was the policy and policy number my decision was referring to. I confirm it is  as mentioned 
in my provisional decision, Ive seen no records for any other PPI policy.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr C and Ms Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr C and 
Ms Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Ms Cs complaint about the sale of the 
PPI  for broadly the same reasons as I gave in my provisional decision. Ill explain them.
Firstly, the FCA rules and guidance about the non-disclosure of commission, related to the 
Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited, dont apply here. 
So Santander doesnt need to do any partial refund of PPI commission that might otherwise 
have been required under by those provisions. Im sorry if what I said about this in my 
provisional decision was difficult to follow. Ive set out the relevant points again below.
For those provisions to apply, the mortgage agreement Mr C and Ms C took the PPI policy 
out with - and from what I have, I find this means the mortgage agreement that started or 
was running in or around June 1993 - would need to have still been running on 6 April 2008. 
Mr C and Ms C think the PPI started earlier than 1993. I give their view some weight, but I 
have nothing else to support it. The records of PPI I have start in 1993. On balance what I 
have makes me think that 1993 is when the PPI started.
Also Mr C and Ms C have said that 1993 is when their mortgage changed from endowment 
to repayment. In my view it is plausible that they took PPI at that time but not before. This is 
not what they recall, but what I have makes me think they took the PPI with the repayment 
mortgage agreement theyve mentioned.
I dont think that mortgage agreement was still in force in April 2008.I accept Mr C and Ms C had a mortgage of some sort in place in 2008. But I dont think it 
was governed by the same mortgage agreement they had in 1993. I say this because 
although Santander has no records to show when the 1993 arrangement ended, it does 
have a record of a mortgage for Mr C and Ms C that started in December 2002 and ended in 
July 2006. The reference ends -65 and was stated by Santander in a 6 December 2019 
letter to Mr C  it is the first of two accounts mentioned there and described as Mortgage. It 
was also shown in the first line of a table on page 2 of a 21 November 2019 letter sent by 
Santander and addressed to Mr C and Ms C.
I think this means that Mr C and Ms Cs 1993 repayment mortgage agreement ended at the 
latest in December 2002  because, if it was still running then, it was replaced at that time by 
the December 2002 mortgage Santander has found. In my view it follows that the 1993 
mortgage ended before April 2008. So the Plevin provisions dont apply.
Id mention, in reply to Mr C and Ms Cs question, I dont know what the account number of 
the 1993 mortgage was. Aside from the December 2002 account Ive only seen one other 
mortgage account number in the records and thats the number on the notice of deposit from 
the 1980s (also referenced by the insurer in a 19 December 2019 letter to Mr C and Ms C).
I note Mr C and Ms Cs scepticism about having a policy ending in 1995 after only two years. 
But from what I have this is what happened here. The end date of the policy isnt relevant to 
the outcome here, though. I mentioned it in my provisional decision by way of background. 
Turning now to the sale itself, Ive concluded the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain my reasons.
The nub of Mr C and Ms Cs complaint is that the PPI was mis-sold because they agreed to 
it only after having been misled into believing that taking it would help them get the mortgage 
 and they felt pressure, presumably because, amongst other things, they felt that if they 
didnt agree to the PPI they might not get the mortgage.
Ive considered this carefully. But the length of time since the sale means that while I give 
some weight to what Mr C and Ms C recall, this isnt enough on its own to make me think 
they were misled in the way they recall  and I havent seen anything else to make me think 
they were misled like that. For example, Im not aware of any general failing in Santanders 
sales processes at the time that would lead me to think it more likely than not that customers 
like Mr C and Ms C wouldve been misled in this way at that time.
Id add that Mr C and Ms Cs recollections of being misled about the policy were set out for 
us as recollections from a year in the 1980s or from when they first took a mortgage. They 
still maintain the PPI started at that time. So what they recall doesnt help me to conclude 
that they were misled in 1993 or when moving from one mortgage arrangement to another.
Also I dont consider that failings by Santander in 2016 or later would say much at all about 
whether it is likely Santander acted incorrectly at a sale in 1993. I dont agree failings of the 
kind Mr C and Ms C have told us about, can lend weight to what they recall of a different 
type of transaction that happened at a different time over 20 years earlier. I acknowledge 
that Mr C and Ms C take a different view.
Taking everything into account, what I have doesnt persuade me that, more likely than not, 
Mr C and Ms C were misled about needing to take the PPI when it was sold to them in 1993. 
And I havent found any other reason to say the PPI was likely mis-sold. For example, I dont 
have the terms and conditions of this particular policy  these are no longer available due to 
the passage of time  but nothing Mr C and Ms C have said of their circumstances makes 
me think it likely Mr C was ineligible for the PPI. He wasnt affected by any of the factors that 
most commonly stop a consumer claiming on PPI or being eligible for it. For example, he was in permanent rather than temporary employment, he had been with his employer for 
over a year and he wasnt suffering from any health issue  so he wouldnt have been 
affected by any exclusions or limitations relating to pre-existing health issues.
So what Mr C and Ms C have told us doesnt make me think the policy was mis-sold on the 
basis of Mr C being unable to claim the benefits for any of the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Also Mr C has told us he thinks its likely his pay wouldve halved if hed been off work for 
more than six months due to accident or sickness. So if Mr C were to have been off work for 
an extended time, I think the policy benefit couldve been useful to Mr C and Ms C. By 
helping with mortgage related costs, the policy benefit wouldve helped Mr C and Ms C keep 
any savings they had intact or free to help meet other costs at what could be a difficult time if 
Mr C were unemployed or too sick to work for an extended period. I say this bearing in mind 
that any such savings will have been savings theyd chosen not to put towards the mortgage. 
Also, I note what Mr C and Ms C have said about extended work absences being unlikely, 
but the cover here was to help protect payments on a mortgage secured on Mr C and Ms Cs 
home, so I dont agree such cover couldnt have been worthwhile or that it could only have 
been taken by them as a result of them being misled or the cover mis-sold.
Mr C and Ms C had other insurances, like life cover and critical illness cover, but these sorts 
of insurance wouldnt usually pay out in the event of unemployment or help with mortgage 
costs in the event of sickness.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr C and Ms C did not have a need for Mr C to have cover of 
the kind the PPI policy could provide. So, with this and all Ive said above in mind, Im not 
persuaded Santander was wrong to recommend that Mr C and Ms C take the policy. Also, 
from what Mr C and Ms C have told us, Mr C was the higher earner, so I see nothing wrong 
in cover having been on him rather than on Ms C or on Mr C and Ms C jointly.
Given the passage of time, I dont know what information was provided to Mr C and Ms C 
about the policy  and so its possible that information was not as full or as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, for the reasons Ive given, I think the benefit wouldve been useful for 
Mr C and Ms C if something went wrong  and I havent seen anything to suggest that more 
information about the policy restrictions or exclusions wouldve affected Mr C and Ms Cs 
decision  because, as Ive explained above, what Mr C and Ms C have told us suggests to 
me that it was unlikely Mr C was affected by those. So, overall, I dont think Mr C and Ms C 
would have declined the cover had Santander done more in terms of the information given.
I appreciate that insurance is sometimes mis-sold, and consumers may sometimes be 
persuaded to buy inappropriate cover. But taking everything into account, I havent found a 
reason to say it is more likely than not that the PPI here was mis-sold. 
In light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mr C and Ms Cs complaint.
Im sorry that my conclusions will disappoint Mr C and Ms C but Im grateful for their timely 
and considered responses and for the assistance they have given us throughout our 
consideration of their complaint, which has greatly helped me.
my final decision
Having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint overall, for the reasons I have set out 
above I dont uphold Mr C and Ms Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
  
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman