DRN-2832658
The complaint
Ms H complained that her claim for escape of water had been unfairly declined under her 
buildings policy with Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) and she didnt have any 
premiums refunded when she cancelled her policy.
What happened
Ms H insured her late mothers property. As the property was left empty for around 18 
months or so, Ms H said she checked on the house at least once a week to make sure there 
were no problems. On one of these checks, Ms H said she noticed water had damaged the 
cupboards and work surface, so she rang Fairmead to make a claim on her policy.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster, but due to Covid restrictions the loss adjuster couldnt 
visit the property. Instead, a digital assessment was carried out. Ms H said she was asked to 
take the bath panel off and film under the bath, to try and find where the leak was coming 
from. She said she was asked to find a plumber. On the first visit the plumber couldnt find 
the leak and had tried looking through the kitchen ceiling. The location of the leak was later 
identified by Ms H and on a second visit, the plumber fixed the leak in the bath / shower 
wastepipe.
Fairmead used the information provided by the plumber as part of its assessment. It said the 
leak was from the bath waste and would have occurred when water was flowing through it. It 
said as the bath hadnt been used for c18 months, the leak didnt get any worse once 
nobody was regularly using the bath as there wouldnt have been enough water in the bath 
waste to cause the damage evidenced. Fairmead said the amount of mould growth in the 
affected areas is indicative that the leak had been ongoing for some time and had occurred 
prior to the inception of the policy. 
Ms H explained she had a stressful time during this period. She said she had never claimed 
before and Fairmead said it would take her through the process. Fairmead declined her 
claim and Ms H feels let down and feels like she has been made to look dishonest. Ms H has 
since sold the property.
Ms H also complained that when she cancelled her policy mid-term she wasnt refunded any 
of her premiums. Fairmead explained to Ms H that in line with her policy If you have made a 
claim in the period of insurance and we have been unable to recover our costs from an 
identifiable third party deemed to be responsible, we will not refund any premium.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint for her claim being declined, but he didnt 
comment on the fairness of the premiums not being refunded. He said that he thought it was 
more likely that the damage was caused steadily over time, rather than a recent and sudden 
leak. So, he thought Fairmead were fair in rejecting the claim as it thought the damage 
happened before the inception of the current policy. He said as Ms Hs policy had a condition 
that she needed to inspect the property regularly, he thought the damage should have been 
noticed and reported to Fairmead sooner. Ms H disagreed, so the case has been referred to 
an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 28 April 2021. I said:
Ms H has had a lot to deal with over the past couple of years and I understand that this 
would have been a difficult time for her. However, I need to be fair when assessing this 
complaint and unfortunately I am unable to uphold it. Although, Ms Hs policy does cover her 
for escape of water, I think Fairmead have justified fairly why it declined her claim. Ill explain 
why.
I have looked at the evidence that has been provided, which includes the various 
photographs of the kitchen and the damage caused by the water. I agree with Fairmeads 
assessment that it seems more likely to me that the water damage is long standing in nature, 
as opposed to a more recent leak. The damage appears as if it has been there for some 
time. There is mould that has developed in the affected areas, which is a sign that the water 
damage wasnt recent. I think the conclusions drawn by Fairmead seem reasonable. 
I have viewed the invoice provided by the plumber who attended the property. Fairmeads 
experts said his invoice stated that he fixed the waste pipe connecting the shower and bath. 
It also said that Ms H had stated that the bath and shower have not been used for c18 
months, due to the circumstances with the property. This led Fairmeads experts to think it 
more likely the leak occurred at least 18 months ago which would have been before the 
inception of the current policy. I think Fairmead have reached a reasonable conclusion and 
so it follows I think it has been fair in declining the claim.
As a vacant property, Ms H says she has been inspecting the property weekly in line with the 
requirements of her policy. It maybe that Ms H simply didnt see the damage that the water 
had caused and only noticed it on a more recent inspection. However, I dont think its fair to 
expect Fairmead to cover the claim in these circumstances, as the damage does look like it 
has been there for some time. I think it would be reasonable to have expected this damage 
to have been noticed earlier and reported to Fairmead. I know Ms H has said she would 
have needed to open all her cupboards to spot the leak. However, from reviewing the photos 
myself there do seem other visible signs of a leak having occurred and I think these would 
have been visible for some time.. The photos show discolouration to the ceiling tiles and they 
appear to be bulging slightly in the area above where the mould can be seen in the 
cupboards. 
Ms H has questioned the photos that Fairmead have used in making the decision. She said, 
I do not have a clue why a pipe would just start leaking but waste water that had rested in 
that pipe, it was stagnant, and it stunk, just emptied out in the room below I cannot explain 
why but it was a genuine claim, I am not a dishonest person. I can understand that Ms H 
may have thought this was the cause of the leak. Fairmead said it thought it more likely the 
leak occurred over 18 months ago when the bath and shower were in use. It said the extent 
of damage doesnt suggest this was from a small amount of standing water in the waste pipe 
or from a recent event. The evidence does suggest to me that it is more likely the leak 
occurred at an earlier point in time and probably over an extended period, so I think 
Fairmeads conclusions based on the evidence are reasonable.
Ms H expressed concerns of Fairmeads handling of the complaint. Given the Covid 
lockdown restrictions, I think Fairmead have acted reasonably in using a digital assessment 
in order to try and progress this claim. Ms H thinks she has been made to look dishonest. I 
dont think Fairmead have accused Ms H of being dishonest, but I can understand why Ms H 
may feel this way after her claim was declined. Unfortunately, with the nature of insurance 
claims the insurer will give their opinion of what caused the damage. This can contradict that 
of the policyholder. In assessing this complaint, I have made a judgement of what I think is most likely to have happened. And in this scenario, I think Fairmeads explanation best fits 
with the evidence I have seen and that is why I intend not to uphold the complaint.
Finally, Ms H complained that when she cancelled her policy mid-term she wasnt refunded 
any of her premiums. Fairmead have explained to Ms H that as she has made a claim on her 
policy, then under the policy terms they do not need to refund any premiums if it incurred 
costs that it has not been able to recover. Ms H has made a claim and Fairmead did incur 
costs from the digital survey at Ms H home and from administering her claim. These costs 
havent been recovered. I know Ms H was unhappy with the effectiveness of the survey, but I 
think Fairmead carried this out fairly and in good faith to try and progress Ms Hs claim 
during the Covid restrictions. Therefore, as I think Fairmead have acted reasonably and in 
line with the policy, I cant say they have been unfair and I intend not to uphold this aspect of 
the complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Ms H didnt accept my findings and she made the same points that I considered in my 
provisional decision, so I wont repeat these again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information. I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman