DRN-2185064
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) has recorded a Credit Industry Fraud 
Awareness System (CIFAS) marker against his name. He feels the marker should be 
removed.
What happened
Mr Ss account was opened in 2013. In February 2015 Metro Bank had concerns about 
funds that had been paid into the account and closed it the following month. Metro Banks 
records reflect Mr S called it in 2016 to discuss the account closure and was advised he 
would need to write to its head office for further information.
In June 2020 Mr S contacted our service to complain about the CIFAS marker recorded by 
Metro Bank and the impact this was having on him. He said he hadnt committed fraud and 
he felt Metro Bank was treating him unfairly.
In July 2020 Metro Bank responded to Mr S. It said that:
In March 2015 it decided to close Mr Ss account because it was informed fraudulent 
funds had been directed to his account
When this happened, it sent a letter to the address it held for Mr S to let him know the 
account was closed
Because it had a duty to report instances of fraud, the CIFAS marker had been fairly 
recorded
Mr S didnt accept this and asked us to investigate the complaint. He explained the account 
with Metro Bank had originally been his, but he felt it was likely that people in his life at the 
time the funds entered his account had accessed his details and used the account without 
his knowledge. He felt they were liable for the potentially fraudulent activity and he shouldnt 
be responsible for this. 
Throughout the course of his complaint and our investigation at various points, Mr S has 
said:
He left the UK suddenly in December 2014 leaving many of his possessions behind 
including his Metro Bank card
Before he left the UK, he lived with 12 other people and shared a room with three 
people, all of whom wouldve had access to his belongings when he left the UK 
suddenly
Amongst his possessions were a diary and a spare phone which hes said at one 
point was for university use and at another point business use. Although he didnt 
give anyone his PIN, he kept all his security passwords and information in an email 
draft in his email account which hed left open and accessible on his phone
His PIN is his birthday and this may have been known to others as he thinks it 
mightve been in some personal correspondence he left behind and it wouldve been 
on a driving license he lost
He lived with someone who arranged marriages and loans who had asked to use one 
of his accounts in the past
His business partner had full access to the phone he left behind as it was for 
business use. Hes provided a series of correspondence hes said is between him 
and various other business associates and which he feels demonstrate his business 
partner wasnt a trustworthy person
His girlfriend at the time knew his PIN was his date of birth, although he couldnt 
recall if it was the day and month or the year of his birth
He doesnt recognise the mobile number registered to the Metro Bank account and 
this isnt and wasnt his number
He thinks its possible bank employees were involved in the funds entering his 
account
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as they didnt feel Mr S had been able to provide 
plausible or persuasive evidence the funds were deposited into his account without his 
knowledge. As Mr S didnt accept this, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Metro Bank have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that thered been a
misuse of facility  relating to the account retaining wrongful credit. In order to file such a 
marker, the bank isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of fraud 
or a financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion 
or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Ss account, whether they are retained or simply pass through the account.
Secondly, Metro Bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
In 2015 two deposits were made to Mr Ss account, each of around £5,000. Metro Bank has 
shown me the evidence it obtained suggesting the deposits were fraudulently obtained. And 
although I cant go into detail about this information here given the sensitivity of it, having 
considered it carefully, Im satisfied Metro Bank has acted reasonably in relying on this 
information. So as a starting point, Im satisfied Metro Bank did have reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud had been committed.
Was Mr S responsible for the deposits?
Mr S has said he wasnt complicit in receiving the funds into his account. Hes provided the 
service with numerous explanations as to how someone else in his life at the time wouldve 
had full access to his account and couldve used it without his knowledge. He thinks this is 
what has happened in this case. But overall, Im not persuaded by what hes said. Much of Mr Ss testimony hangs on the fact that he left the UK in 2014 in a rush due to the 
death of a family member and knew he wouldnt be returning. And, as a result, he left behind 
items which a reasonable person wouldnt generally abandon, such as bank cards, diaries, a 
smart phone and private correspondence. But the evidence hes provided of his emergency 
departure is a flight he appears to have booked a month in advance and around four days 
before he said his family member sadly passed away. And whilst it may show he left the UK 
in December 2014 (although I would note the year is not shown anywhere on the ticket) this 
doesnt demonstrate he wasnt in the UK in February 2015 or that (even if he was overseas 
at that time) he couldnt have been involved in receiving funds into his bank account.
Mr S has said he left some of his personal items behind because his visa was coming to an 
end in December 2014 and he knew he wouldnt likely return to the UK. But this is at odds 
with what hes said about leaving the UK quickly and unexpectedly. And it seems odd that if 
he was leaving the UK permanently he would leave behind so many valuable items as well 
as the busy business he says he was running at the time. 
Also, on another occasion Mr S told us he left his things behind because he moved to his 
uncles home in a different part of the UK city he was living in, which again, is at odds with 
his testimony that he left in a rush. But Id also add that whether Mr S initially left in a rush or 
left the UK as planned, I dont think hes explained why at some point he didnt arrange to 
close down his UK accounts which is what Id expect a reasonable person to have done if 
they didnt plan on returning. Especially as he says he didnt receive any letters from Metro 
Bank confirming the account was closed so he believed it was left open.
Throughout the course of the investigation Mr S has listed numerous people that he said 
potentially had access to his accounts and couldve used them to deposit and then withdraw 
money. But I havent found this information very persuasive and the information Mr S has 
provided about this again hasnt been very consistent.
Ive also taken into account that Metro Banks records show it received contact from Mr S in 
2016  he asked why his account had been closed. Its records suggest he was told he would 
need to contact head office for more information about this. He didnt do this. I think this 
indicates Mr S likely asked about the account closure at this time, and in being told to 
contact its head office was given enough information to suggest something unusual was 
happening with the account. It seems strange that Mr S didnt pursue the matter at the time. 
Especially if he was aware he left all of his banking information openly available to many 
different suspicious people in his life.
Also, when Mr S discovered the CIFAS marker in 2020, he initially denied any knowledge of 
the activity on the account and suggested bank staff mightve been involved. Over time, hes 
suggested it mightve been various other people in his life, but it seems unusual that the 
amount of different people Mr S has described all wouldve known how to access his 
account and have the motivation to do so.
Mr S later appears to have narrowed this down to believing either his ex-business partner or 
ex-girlfriend used his account without his knowledge. When asked specific questions about 
how this mightve happened, over time rather than from the outset, hes revealed his PIN 
was his birthday and this wouldve been in letters he left behind. Also that all his security 
information was in an email draft he left open on his phone when he left the country and this 
phone was not password protected. 
But its not clear to me why someone would need to write down their own birthday in order to 
remember this. And whilst hes said he left behind paperwork that might contain his birthdate 
he hasnt been specific about what this paperwork was. Hes also said he lost his driving 
license which explains how someone would know his birthday, but its not clear how someone would know this was also his PIN.  Or that the person who found his driving 
licence would also have had access to all his other personal items.
Mr S has provided correspondence which he feels demonstrates his business partner/ex-
girlfriend had access to his email accounts. Hes also provided correspondence between him 
and various people he says he worked with who confirm these people were suspicious 
characters. But theres no way for me to verify this. So I dont think it provides persuasive 
evidence someone else used Mr Ss account to receive and withdraw funds without his 
knowledge.
Overall, I dont think Mr S has provided a consistent, plausible explanation as to who 
accessed his account and used it to deposit the funds in question. In all the circumstances I 
think Metro Bank has acted reasonably in concluding its more likely than not he was 
responsible for the deposit and subsequent withdrawals. As such, I think Metro Bank has 
fairly recorded a CIFAS marker in relation to this.
In any event, a CIFAS marker usually remains for six years from the point its first filed. As it 
has now been more than six years since it was filed it is likely no longer recorded against 
Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman