DRN-4389293
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the service provided by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) under his emergency home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term RSA includes its agents and contractors for the 
purposes of this decision. 
What happened
Unfortunately, Mr Ws home was broken into in November 2022, and he reported the matter 
to RSA as he wanted his home to be secured under his home emergency policy. He said 
that the locks needed to be changed and a door wouldnt close. Mr W had to chase RSA and 
received no information from it for over 24 hours. Mr W then arranged the locks to be 
changed under his buildings and contents insurance policy, however this meant that he had 
to pay a £250 excess under that policy. 
Mr W complained to RSA as he considered there had been a service failure. RSA upheld Mr 
Ws complaint and offered £75 compensation. Mr W didnt consider that this adequately 
reflected the distress and inconvenience which had been caused by RSA. As RSA 
maintained its stance, Mr W referred his complaint to this service. The relevant investigator 
upheld the complaint. He considered that an additional £125 compensation (£200 in total) 
would provide a fair and reasonable level of compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
RSA disagreed with the investigators view. In the circumstances, this matter has been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W explained the circumstances of his claim and that hed telephoned RSA on the 
morning of the break-in to inform RSA that his home wasnt secure as the back-door lock 
was broken, house keys had been stolen and the locks needed changing. He also explained 
to RSA that there were vulnerable persons living in the home. 
Mr W was informed by RSA that someone would contact him within four hours. After four 
hours, he rang the relevant RSA contact as hed heard nothing and my house was still 
insecure and exposed to the cold. Mr W said they rudely told him to be patient. He then 
waited most of the day until early evening and then rang again as he was getting worried as 
hed heard nothing, and it was dark outside. He was informed that hed still have to wait and 
didn't know when somebody would be coming. 
Mr W then spoke to his buildings and contents insurers who were very helpful, however they 
had to restart the claim and Mr W had to pay a £250 excess, even though he said no excess 
was payable under his policy with RSA. Mr W paid the excess as he wanted to secure his 
home. A locksmith was eventually sent around 19 hours after the break-in. RSA telephoned 
in the early evening of the following day to say that a locksmith could come round that 
evening even though Mr Ws locks had already been changed.
In summary, Mr W said hed already been in an extremely distressed state as hed 
encountered the burglars. He was unsettled as his home had continued to be left unsecure 
all day, as the back door was open, and the burglars had a set of keys to the house. Hed felt 
extremely stressed and vulnerable, and he also had vulnerable family members at home. On 
top of the shock, hed found the claims process and lack of service extremely stressful and 
upsetting. Hed paid the excess so he and his family could get some sleep. He said he 
shouldn't have had to pay this excess as he paid a premium for home emergency cover. Mr 
W said hed also had to take two days off work. Mr W said that RSA hadnt delivered what 
hed paid for each month through his insurance premiums.
RSA said that at the point and when the claim was registered, it wasnt assessed as the call 
had been transferred through to an Overflow Team, due to the call volumes being received 
at that particular time. It said that following Mr Ws second call, unfortunately the call was 
again directed to the same team. It said that a short while later, the claim was assessed and 
accepted and a text message was sent, advising that RSA would be in touch within 3 hours. 
It acknowledged that a further call was received from Mr W and the same team agreed to 
escalate the claim. This contact occurred the day after the break-in.
RSA upheld Mr Ws complaint. It accepted that for emergencies relating to security, it had an 
agreed service delivery timescale of 4-hours for an initial attendance. It fully accepted that 
this timescale wasnt met. It explained that it had experienced a higher than anticipated 
volume of requests for assistance and this had stretched the resources of its claims 
handlers and contractors. It said this resulted in calls being diverted to an overflow team who 
werent trained to assess complex home emergency claims. It added that the home 
emergency policy would provide a temporary repair only to make the home secure, and the 
replacement of the lock wouldnt have been covered under policy. It said that a change of 
locks would have needed to be completed by on a private basis in any event. 
It said it wouldnt have been able to advise Mr W at the outset that he could approach his 
buildings insurer regarding the changing of locks, as it couldnt make these assessments 
prior to the attendance of a contractor. It also said that the customer should have awareness 
of what the policy covered, and that policy documents were provided at point of purchase. It 
said it wasnt an advisory service and challenged the notion that it would be able to advise 
the customer what insurance would be more appropriate.
In summary however, it accepted that Mr W experienced delays in the provision of 
assistance, which was not addressed at the point of the claim despite you making several 
additional contact attempts. It considered that an apology and compensation of £75 was 
appropriate in the circumstances. It disputed that more money should be offered as it was a 
situation that we largely had no control over. It said that the events related to the burglary 
werent within its control and nor was the resource availability of the contractors. 
The starting point in determining cases of this nature is the wording of the relevant policy. 
Here, the relevant wording states in relation to security: The insurer will arrange an 
emergency repair to make the home safe and/or prevent further damage in the event of 
damage or failure to the...external lock, door or window. It also refers to: The reasonable 
efforts made by the approved engineer during a visit to the home to complete a temporary 
repair to limit or prevent damage or if at similar expense the cost of completing a permanent 
repair in respect of the cover provided.I appreciate that RSA experienced a high volume of demand on the day on which Mr W 
reported the break-in. However, Mr W reasonably expected emergency assistance in a 
situation where security at his home had been compromised as in this case. RSA accepted 
that its agreed service delivery timescale was 4-hours for an initial attendance. In this case, 
RSA didnt contact Mr W to offer practical assistance until around 30 hours after reporting 
the incident. I consider this to be a significant service failure. Whilst RSA rightly stated that 
the burglary events were not within its control, the customer experience in terms of service 
levels and communication were matters for which RSA was responsible. In this case, its 
clear that RSA fell short of its own service level standards.
RSA stated in its final response letter that the policy wouldnt pay for replacements of locks. 
However, I note from the wording of the policy that a permanent repair may have been 
considered in certain circumstances, and therefore its possible that the policy terms and 
conditions would have allowed locks to be changed. This is supported by RSAs comment 
that it couldnt assess the position until its own locksmith or contractor had attended. 
Nevertheless, this doesnt change the fact that it would reasonably be expected that RSA 
would provide an effective emergency service in the circumstances of this case.
Ive also considered the impact that the service failure would have had upon Mr W and his 
family. I note that RSA was aware that there were vulnerable persons in the household. I can 
also understand that Mr W was in a heightened state of anxiety at the relevant time. A set of 
keys had been stolen and the home was not secured with a second night approaching. The 
absence of emergency assistance from RSA will therefore have increased levels of distress 
for Mr W in an already stressful situation.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that £125 compensation in addition to the £75 compensation 
already offered by RSA would be a reasonable outcome to Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and I require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay £125 compensation in addition to the £75 already offered to Mr W 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman