DRN-3985947
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society didnt take any action when their 
investment lost value. They say they were paying a monthly charge for advice but received 
no contact from Nationwide when their investments lost around 12% of their value.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D sought advice from Nationwide in 2017 and again in 2021. They wanted to 
invest for the medium to long term with the objective of capital growth and, on an attitude to 
risk scale of 0 to 5, they were assessed as being 3. 
In 2017 they invested £9,650 each in a mixed investment fund in an ISA. In 2021 they 
invested a further £20,000 each. They chose to receive Nationwides ongoing service at an 
annual cost of 0.75% of the value of their investment, payable monthly.
Mr and Mrs D say they understood their investment was being looked after by Nationwide 
and that it would have reacted to the loss to protect the value of their investment. Mr and 
Mrs D decided to encash their investment and want Nationwide to compensate them for the 
loss they made, £2,758.80, plus interest.
Nationwide said it had provided the agreed service and that Mr and Mrs D always had 
access to its financial planning managers. It said Nationwide was satisfied with how the fund 
Mr and Mrs D were invested in was performing, so it didnt advise changing it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Nationwide had operated in line with the agreed terms and she didnt think its investment 
committee had failed in its duties.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and didnt think this service had considered their complaint with 
due diligence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Im satisfied that Nationwide provided the agreed ongoing service. Mr and Mrs D had access 
to a financial planning manager and could have contacted them at any time to discuss their 
investment. They received an annual report and Nationwide contacted them annually to 
confirm their investment remained suitable for them, but to also check if their circumstances 
had changed and would carry out a review if necessary. And Nationwides investment 
committee monitored its range of funds and Mr and Mrs D would have been contacted had it 
thought a change was necessary.
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwides annual report said:
Our investment committee continues to monitor the funds on our panel and will write to you 
if there are concerns about a fund that may no longer be suitable for you, so you can decide 
what action you would like to take.
And that Nationwide said the ongoing advice service provided them with reassurance that 
we are keeping an eye on your investment portfolio.
Im satisfied that Nationwide provided what it said it would. I say that because, although the 
value of Mr and Mrs Ds fund had gone down, Nationwides investment committee thought 
the fund would still meet its long-term objectives. So there was no reason for it to need to 
contact Mr and Mrs D because it didnt recommend a change to their investment. And 
Mr and Mrs D hadnt told Nationwide about any change in their circumstances which would 
suggest the fund was no longer suitable for them. 
It would appear the investment had reacted as expected to general market conditions at the 
time. And Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D received the necessary warnings about investment 
performance and risk and would have understood that their investment could fall in value. 
Nationwide didnt contact Mr and Mrs D to tell them that their investment had fallen in value, 
or to provide any commentary about the volatile market conditions. But I dont find there was 
any obligation on it to do so. The fall in the value of Mr and Mrs Ds fund was in line with 
market performance and, as already noted, Nationwide didnt have concerns about the 
suitability of the fund  it still aimed to provide capital growth with a small degree of risk. 
Nationwide could have provided commentary about market conditions, but this was being 
widely reported elsewhere and Mr and Mrs D could have contacted their financial planning 
manager if they had any concerns they wanted to discuss. 
In response to their complaint, Nationwide explained that it had received correspondence 
from other consumers about market volatility and, in response, it had sent out letters and 
emails about current economic and market conditions. I dont think the overall outcome here 
would have been any different if Nationwide had proactively provided Mr and Mrs D with 
commentary at an earlier stage. I say that because, when Mr and Mrs D did contact their 
financial planning manager, he provided commentary and explained why he didnt 
recommend any changes in their investment. But Mr and Mrs D clearly werent reassured as 
they decided to encash their investment at a loss. If theyd received that commentary any 
earlier, I dont think it would have changed their minds. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman