DRN-3438772
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way in which Fairmead Insurance Limited handled a claim
under their legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Fairmead, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
Whilst this is a joint policy, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mrs G as this is her claim.
What happened
On 9 June 2021, Mrs G issued proceedings in the small claims court for unpaid wages. She
subsequently contacted Fairmead on 28 June 2021 to make a claim for representation under
her legal expenses insurance policy.
Fairmead reviewed the claim and on 1 July 2021, it requested further information from Mrs G
including confirmation of whether she held a contract of employment or a contract of
services as she was self-employed. Mrs G responded on the same day stating that all
documents had been provided. She subsequently called on 6 July 2021 advising Fairmead
that her claim was subject to court deadlines and should therefore be treated as a priority.
On 8 July 2021, DAS declined the claim on the basis that policy cover was only available for
disputes arising from a contract of employment, and as Mrs G was self-employed her claim
fell outside of the policys terms and conditions.
Mrs G felt this decision was unfair, so on 15 July 2021 she asked Fairmead to reconsider her
claim. She said she has an implied contract of employment which is accepted by law and
that independent contractors can be considered as a worker / employee. She also said there
was no exclusion in her policy regarding self-employment.
As she didnt receive a response, Mrs G sent a further email on 1 August 2021 and called on
5 August 2021. Fairmead emailed on 6 August 2021 advising that it was reconsidering the
claim.
On 9 August 2021, Fairmead advised Mrs G that it was seeking concrete evidence that she
held an implied contract before it could put cover in place. It also requested details of the
wages accrued prior to Mrs G setting up her limited company. It explained that as Mrs Gs
policy was a personal one, cover wouldnt extend to wages owed to her business, that had
since been dissolved.
Mrs G responded the same day explaining that her case wasnt that straight forward and that
she was owed for both wages and fees for work completed.
Fairmead advised Mrs G, on 11 August 2021, that it was instructing one of its panel solicitors
to get an expert opinion on whether there was an implied contract of employment. It
explained that if the solicitors determined the money was owed to Mrs Gs limited company,
this would be considered a commercial dispute which would fall outside of the policys cover.
This email was followed by a letter from Fairmead of the same date, confirming that solicitors
 who Ill refer to as D  had been appointed to act for Mrs G under the policy.
On 12 August 2021, D advised they were unable to take on the case so Fairmead instructed
another panel solicitor  who Ill refer to as M. It spoke to Mrs G on 16 August 2021
confirming the basis of the solicitors instructions. And a further letter was sent advising that
M had been appointed to act under the policy.
On 19 August 2021, Mrs G informed Fairmead that the defendant to her claim had applied to
have the case struck out on the basis that the particulars of claim hadnt been served
properly. A relief from sanction hearing had been listed for 20 August 2021. Mrs G was
distressed as shed yet to hear from M. So Fairmead chased them for her.
Fairmead informed Mrs G, on 20 August 2021, that M were unable to accept instructions on
the claim. It advised that it anticipated most of its panel solicitors would be unable to assist
due to the narrow court timescales, but that it had made one final referral to solicitors Ill refer
to as P.
The sanction hearing was vacated, but a strike out hearing was scheduled for 31 August
2021. Mrs G requested representation for this date but was advised by P on 23 August 2021
that their instructions were limited to an assessment on whether or not there was an implied
contract of employment. Mrs G said this wasnt what she was led to believe and raised a
complaint to Fairmead.
As part of Fairmeads investigation into Mrs Gs complaint, it continued to obtain an expert
opinion from P on whether the claim fell within the policy terms. P confirmed that there was
no evidence to suggest Mrs P had a contract in place which could be interpreted as a
contract of employment, or that she could be considered by law as a worker / employee 
and in fact, much of the evidence provided by Mrs G showed otherwise.
Based on this advice, Fairmead advised Mrs G that her claim fell outside of the policys
cover. But as a goodwill gesture, it would cover the cost of counsel to represent Mrs G at the
strike out hearing. Mrs G located a barrister with availability and Fairmead covered the costs
of £1,200 which was paid into her account.
Mrs G tells us the barrister advised that her claim had been filed incorrectly in her personal
name. She says the delay in getting legal representation prejudiced her claim as there was
insufficient time to amend the papers to say she was trading as her limited company.
Because of this, she had no choice but to settle out of court and pay the defendants legal
fees of £3,000, as if shed proceeded to the strike out hearing she wouldve lost and been
liable for costs in excess of £10,000.
Mrs G brought her complaint to our service and our investigator upheld it. She said that
whilst she was satisfied Mrs G didnt have a contract of employment nor was her limited
company an eligible claimant under the policy, she felt the policy terms werent clear and
that a reasonable layperson could not be expected to know what a contract of employment
is. She recommended that Fairmead pay compensation of £800 in addition to what it had
already paid.
Mrs G accepted this outcome, but Fairmead didnt. So the complaint was passed to me, and 
in March 2022 I issued the following provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to a different
conclusion to our investigator and I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mrs Gwill be disappointed by this outcome, so Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Gs policy says it will cover legal action directly arising
fromyour contract of employment. It defines the term you or your as the policyholder
and any member of the policyholders family permanently residing at your home.
Im satisfied this is clear that the policy intends to cover employment disputes arising from an
employment contract and Im not persuaded that a layperson isnt reasonably expected to
know what that is.
Mrs G says the policy doesnt specifically exclude disputes arising from self-employment.
But that isnt the test here. The first step is to determine whether there is a relevant section
of cover that the claim would fall within. We dont expect an insurer to list every situation the
policy doesnt cover, but we do expect them to list the situations it does cover along with any
exceptions.
The Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS) say a contract of employment is
a contract between an employer and an employee or worker is a legally binding agreement.
This could be a 'contract of employment' or a 'contract of service'.
Fairmead asked Mrs G whether she held a contract of employment or contract for services,
but Mrs G didnt respond directly to this question nor did she provide either contract. So
based on the information it held at that time, Im satisfied it was fair for Fairmead to conclude
that the claim didnt fall within the policy terms and conditions.
I do acknowledge that in law self-employed persons can be deemed workers or employees.
But Im satisfied Fairmead considered this when it asked Mrs G for a contract of services if
she didnt hold a contract of employment.
Mrs G said she had an implied contract of employment and she would be considered an
employee. So Fairmead agreed to get legal advice. Fairmead isnt a legal expert  its an
insurer. So when making decisions on policy cover that involve legal considerations, Id
expect it to seek a legal opinion. As this is a legal question, Im satisfied this was the right
action to take.
Fairmead instructed several solicitors and its unfortunate they couldnt take on the case. I
appreciate this caused some delays which wouldve been stressful to Mrs G as she was
subject to court deadlines. But I cant see that these delays were the fault of Fairmead. Im
also mindful that Mrs G issued her legal case in court prior to making her claim under her 
policy. This meant Fairmead was against the clock from the outset. Despite the time
pressures, Fairmead has a duty to assess the claim correctly and it would be Mrs Gs
responsibility to protect her position with the court whilst the assessment of her claim was
ongoing.
Mrs G says she was led to believe the claim had been accepted and the solicitors were
instructed to act for her. But from the information Ive been provided with, I dont agree that
was the case. I can see that when Fairmead instructed the first solicitors D, it sent Mrs G an
email which said I will be sending your claim to one of our preferred solicitors today to get
their expert opinion on whether you do have a contract of employment.
Fairmead then sent Mrs G a letter which said I am pleased to confirm we are able to assist
and we have appointed D at act on your behalf. I appreciate this may have confused
matters. This is a standard letter and its reasonable to expect Fairmead to amend it to
reflect the individual circumstances of Mrs Gs claim and the basis of Ds instructions. But I
think Mrs G was already aware of Fairmeads position.When D advised it couldnt act, Fairmead spoke to Mrs G on the phone. The call notes from
16 August 2021 says cust. happy for me to send to M. Explained same caveat as before.
Again, Fairmead sent its standard letter implying M were appointed to act on the claim but
there was enough dialogue surrounding these letters that Im persuaded Mrs G understood
what the solicitors had been instructed to do. So I dont agree that she was misled.
The legal assessment received from P concluded that Mrs G didnt hold a contract of
employment or contract for services which would deem her to be an employee or worker. So
the claim doesnt fall within the scope of cover offered by the policy.
In addition, it was determined Mrs Gs claim had been filed incorrectly and shouldve been
issued in her business name or in her name with trading as as the claimant. Fairmead
had been clear with Mrs G that if it was determined the money was owed to her limited
company, this wouldnt be covered by the policy. Its email to Mrs G said regarding the
wages / fees, the solicitor will have to determine whether you transferred all of the existing
business into your limited company. If so, this would be considered a commercial dispute
and we will have to decline your claim as you only have a personal policy.
As the policy says it will cover claims arising from your contract of employment and Mrs Gs
limited company doesnt fall within the definition of your, this wouldnt have been a claim
Fairmead couldve accepted if it had been filed correctly.
I appreciate that Mrs G holds Fairmead responsible for the delay in receiving the legal
advice which made her aware shed issued her claim incorrectly. But Mrs G chose to issue
her case in court prior to making her claim on the policy and its reasonable to expect her to
have taken legal advice to ensure she did this correctly.
In summary, Im persuaded this claim wasnt covered by the policy from the outset. This is
because the legal advice is that she didnt hold a contract of employment or contract for
services, nor was she considered to be a worker or employee by law. In addition, this was a
commercial dispute between the business and her limited company, which falls outside the
scope of cover offered by the policy.
Im not persuaded the policy was unclear to a layperson, or that Mrs G was misled regarding
the basis of the solicitors instructions. And whilst I acknowledge it took some time to obtain
the legal opinion and subsequent counsels advice, I dont think these delays were the fault
of Fairmead.
Mrs G has been paid £1,200 for counsels fees to represent her at the strike out hearing.
These are costs she wasnt entitled to under the policy and Fairmead has paid this as a
goodwill gesture to assist Mrs G. I cant reasonably ask it to do any more than that.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mrs G and Fairmead have confirmed they accept my provisional decision and have 
nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my 
provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman