DRN-2478077
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy about the way Avantia Insurance Limited trading as HomeProtect have
charged her an inspection fee for a declined escape of water claim when shed already told
them there wasnt a leak.
 
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs H took out a building and contents insurance policy with HomeProtect. Mrs
H agreed when she took out the policy that shed pay excess fees for claims, and these were
detailed in her policy and included £250 compulsory excess fee for an escape of water
claim.
In April 2020 Mrs H contacted HomeProtect to make a claim as her flooring had become
springy and on lifting the laminate flooring shed found the joists were damaged. Mrs H said
there wasnt a leak of water and that the cause was probably due to a previous leak and
repair. In the call Mrs H referred to the water board carrying out work in the area. She said
none of the repairs theyd done were as a result of anything shed asked for.
HomeProtect referred her claim to their escape of water team and arranged for an inspection
to trace and access the cause of the damage. The inspection of the damage found the
cause to be from a previously repaired leak on the main supply outside the property.
HomeProtect declined the claim as they werent satisfied the damage was the result of an
insured event, as the cause happened before Mrs H took out her insurance cover with them.
They suggested Mrs H contact her previous insurer.
Mrs H wasnt happy with their response as she said shed told HomeProtect from the start of
the claim the cause of the damage. And Mrs H said shed had to pay £200 excess fee before
the inspection visit could be done, but her understanding was this would be returned if her
claim wasnt accepted. But HomeProtect has said the fee was to cover the cost of
investigating the leak and is non-refundable. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said he could understand why HomeProtect needed to determine whether
this was an insurable event. But said they should have discussed this with Mrs H so that she
could make an informed decision as to whether she wanted the inspection to go ahead or
not. And this would have determined whether she would have agreed to pay the £200 fee,
knowing she wouldnt be able to claim it back. So he didnt think HomeProtect had acted
fairly and said they should refund Mrs H the £200 fee.
HomeProtect didnt respond to the investigator so the complaint has been referred to an
ombudsman to decide.
I Issued a provisional decision in November 2020 that said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Its important to set out that Mrs Hs policy covers her for insured events, such as the escape
of water. But the policy also sets out that it doesnt cover for incidents which happen before
your policy started or after it has ended. So, Mrs H would only be covered for damage
caused by escaping water from June 2019 under this policy, when her insurance started.
Ive listened to the call Mrs H made to make her claim, and she was clear that there wasnt a
current leak, there wasnt any evidence of standing water and her water bills hadnt
increased. She was also clear that she thought the cause was from a previous repair that
had been done, and not something shed done. In the call Mrs H is told the excess fees
shed agreed to when she took out the policy. She was told her claim would be passed to the
escape of water team and that it might be necessary to provide details of the damage either
by a site visit or by the use of a video link and photographs, either way she would get a call
from the team to discuss her claim within 48 hours. And I can see a call was made. But the
recording of the calls with the escape of water team arent available. So, Ive looked at the
notes recorded about the calls.
I can see Mrs H provided photographic evidence that showed the joists and floorboards were
completely extiripated and rotten, and there are notes that say: At present there is no
insurable peril in force as wet rot and dry rot are not covered. The notes go on to say:
Appears a leak externally just outside the front door has caused water to get in to the
property 'sometime ago' and has then eventually created the present damage - We cannot
proceed further with the claim without a peril being identified
Mrs Hs policy says trace and access is covered by the policy, the cost of tracing and
accessing the cause of an escape of water or oil (up to £7,500 per claim) and repair costs for
the cause of the leak (up to £250 per claim). The invoice for the inspection visit shows the
cost of the trace and access visit was in total £375  and a £200 excess fee  the amount
Mrs H paid - was deducted from it.
The pity is that the calls arent available so its not possible to know the full content of what
was said or how this was explained to Mrs H. From the information HomeProtect had,I think
it showed it was more likely than not that the damage Mrs H was claiming for wouldnt be
covered by her policy. Mrs H had been clear there wasnt any sign of water leaking and she
connected the damage to a previous water leak that had happened some time before. I
havent seen any evidence to show Mrs H was told or knew the implications of continuing
with her claim when there was a strong possibility that her claim would be rejected and she
wouldnt be able to get back her £200 fee. And Id have expected this to be fully explained to
Mrs H so that she could make a judgement as to whether she wanted to continue with the
claim and to pay the excess fee.
Ive also checked Mrs Hs policy to see if she could have known from her policy details what
would happen about any fee she paid should her claim be declined. The policy shows the
total excess that needs to be paid towards a claim is calculated by adding the relevant
compulsory and voluntary excesses together. Mrs H had a compulsory standard buildings
claim excess of £100 and a voluntary claim excess of £100,there was also a compulsory
excess fee for an escape of water claim, £250. But HomeProtect didnt apply this excess
which I think shows they didnt consider this to be an escape of water claim. I havent seen
anything in Mrs Hs policy that explains what would happen to any excess paid if the claim
wasnt accepted.
So, I agree with our investigator that Mrs H wasnt given sufficient information to make an
informed decision and so the £ 200 fee should be refunded. As Mrs H was deprived of the
use of this money, I will also require 8% simple interest to be added.Responses to my provisional decisIon
Mrs H accepted my provisional decision. 
HomeProtect havent sent any comments for me to consider.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask Avantia Insurance Limited  trading as HomeProtect to:
refund Mrs H £200 and
add simple interest* at 8% per year on the refund from the date Mrs H paid this 
amount until they repay Mrs H. 
* Avantia Insurance Limited  trading as Homeprotect is required by HM Revenue and 
Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. Should Mrs H request it, Avantia Insurance 
Limited  trading as Homeprotect should provide her with a certificate showing how much tax
has been taken off so that, if appropriate, she can reclaim it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman