DRN-4404229
The complaint
Miss D says Embark Investment Services Limited, trading as Embark Platform, (Embark) 
delayed, and misled her about, the transfer to Embark of her investment portfolio.
Miss D says the portfolio had a fund (the Fund) that was amongst assets Embark told her it 
could accept but it later found it couldnt accept. Miss D says Embarks errors and delay 
meant she couldnt access her portfolio for months and caused her financial loss as well as 
distress and inconvenience.
The transfer was arranged by Miss Ds financial adviser who also brought her complaint. For 
simplicity in this decision I refer to Miss D when referring to things said or done by her or by 
her adviser on her behalf.
What happened
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought £220 Embark had already paid 
Miss D plus an offer it had made to cover the tax arising from her sale of the Fund, was fair 
redress for the trouble and upset she had suffered. Miss D didnt agree and referred us to 
other cases where the amounts and the length of delays were less than they are here but up 
to £750 had been awarded for inconvenience or distress. She suggested an overall award of 
£1000 because the Funds value had also fallen by about £300 during the delay.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. What I said there included, in summary: 
Embark wasnt right to say on 25 February 2021 that it could accept a transfer of the 
Fund. It didnt know enough at the time to give that assurance. It needed to ask the 
existing holder of the portfolio for more information on what all the portfolio holdings were.
If it had done this and the existing provider had responded after a week, Embark couldve 
had this information on 8 March 2021. This wouldve shown the Fund was of a share 
class Embark couldnt hold at the time. If Embark had then asked the existing provider to 
convert the Fund into a class it could hold, it might have got an answer by 22 March. This 
wouldnt have left much time before the end of that tax year for Embark to get a reply 
from the Funds manager on its proposal for holding the Fund. Even if some of the steps 
above had taken less time, it isnt apparent that the need to sell the Fund wouldve been 
established in time for Miss D to arrange to mitigate the tax on that sale. With all this in 
mind, Embark isnt to blame for that tax liability.
Also if she had known sooner that Embark wasnt able to accept the Fund, Im not 
persuaded it wouldve changed Miss Ds decision to use Embark. The Fund was a small 
part of the transfer, she had a larger holding already with Embark and she had made 
other arrangements for other assets Embark couldnt readily deal with, which hadnt 
stopped her using Embark. 
So Embarks error, in telling Miss D it could accept the Fund, didnt change her position 
overall. But it did cause extra disappointment or frustration when she found in July 2021 
that Embark couldnt confirm that it could take the Fund after all  and that looking into 
this meant more delay. For this disappointment or frustration arising from Embarks initial 
error, £150 would be fair compensation.
This wasnt the only error Embark made. It also delayed the resolution of this Fund issue 
after that time. I say this because after Miss D complained in August 2021, it wasnt until 
late October that Embark contacted her again about the issue. Also, whether related to 
the Fund issue or not, Embark also delayed the transfer overall. After asking it to proceed 
with the transfer of the other assets in early September  and with Embark having had the 
valuation since the start of July - Miss D was still chasing this up in December.
Embark is responsible for the delays Ive referred to above. Embark points out that Miss D 
requested a transfer from Embark a month and a half after Embark had said it could 
accept the assets  and didnt send the signed forms for two more months. But there was 
no reason for Miss D to send the forms in sooner if she didnt wish to do so. This wouldnt 
justify Embark delaying the transfer once it was requested in June 2021. Also, having 
requested the transfer in June, Miss D acted with urgency from July onwards.
Embarks delay meant Miss D didnt gain control of the assets on Embarks platform as 
soon as she should have done. But Ive not seen evidence showing there were particular 
plans Miss D had for the portfolio that she couldnt carry out due to the delay, causing 
loss. She didnt raise the prospect of such losses with Embark in the way she raised the 
tax issue. 
It is apparent Miss D was able to arrange to sell the Fund after finding it couldnt be 
transferred. It seems she couldve arranged to sell or modify portfolio assets during the 
delay if she had needed to do so. 
Also Miss D continued to participate in the performance of the portfolio assets during the 
delay - the situation wasnt like those she has pointed to in which money wasnt invested 
and so missed out on a return. 
Overall, Embarks delays in the transfer of the portfolio didnt cause Miss D loss. But they 
caused her inconvenience.
An agent was arranging the transfer for her, but this doesnt mean the delays didnt cause 
Miss D inconvenience (or that its earlier error didnt cause her frustration). Her agent 
wouldnt have been chasing Embark if the time matters were taking hadnt been of 
concern to Miss D. The portfolio value was high, and the delay was over a number of 
months - even after Embark had promised that the transfer would be made a priority. With 
this and all Ive said above in mind, Embark should pay Miss D £350 for inconvenience 
the delays to the portfolio transfer caused her. 
So my provisional decision was that £500 (£150 for frustration caused by the initial error and 
£350 for inconvenience caused by delays) was fair compensation for inconvenience and 
frustration Embark had caused Miss D, rather than the £220 it had already paid Miss D and 
its offer to cover her tax bill. Also I didnt think Embark needed to cover Miss Ds tax bill.
Embark replied and didnt disagree with my provisional findings. Miss D replied with further points. In brief summary: 
It wasnt correct to say that Miss D had access to the funds during the delay. The assets 
were held in a trust and would only be owned by Miss D once the transfer was complete. 
So she did not have any authority to request from the existing provider a withdrawal or 
instruct portfolio changes or the sale of assets. The existing provider would only accept 
instructions from the lead trustee. 
The sale of the Fund was arranged only when Miss D approached the lead trustee - an 
elderly relative - cap in hand in desperation. The lead trustee was very stressed about 
the administrative burden involved anyway and having to approach a relative in this way 
was far from an ideal scenario for Miss D. 
The above essential point has been completely overlooked when seeking to understand 
why Miss D was so distressed by Embarks delay. The delay directly prevented her from 
being able to access the monies and reorganise the portfolio in a more appropriate 
manner within an appropriate timescale. She did not have unfettered access to the 
portfolio during the delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusions as my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. Im grateful to Miss D for her further points, and Ive discussed these below.
I accept Miss D didnt have control of the assets until they had been transferred to Embark. 
But I remain of the view that Miss D had access to the assets, but through the trustee. It is 
due to this view - and the absence of evidence of specific changes Miss D tried to make and 
was prevented from making - that I conclude Miss D did not suffer financial loss as a result 
of a lack of access to the portfolio assets during the delays. 
The fact Miss D was able to sell the Fund supports my view that she was able to make 
changes to the assets before the transfer was complete. Also I noted that she had made 
other arrangements for other assets Embark couldnt readily deal with. 
I accept that these arrangements had to be made through the trustee and that doing so was 
more difficult and less convenient than being able to give instructions directly. In my view this 
lack of unfettered access is part of the inconvenience arising from the delay of the transfer, 
which I considered and covered in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that the 
delay did cause Miss D frustration and inconvenience, as outlined in my provisional decision. 
So, having taken everything into account, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ds complaint for the 
reasons Ive given and summarised above. So I think £500 is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience and frustration Embarks failings caused her, rather than the £220 it has paid 
her so far. I make no award in relation to any tax liability arising from the sale of the Fund. 
Putting things right
Embark Investment Services Limited, trading as Embark Platform, should put things right by 
paying Miss D £500 for inconvenience and frustration caused to her by its failings that Ive 
identified above. It may deduct from this the amounts it has already paid to Miss D for this.My final decision
I uphold Miss Ds complaint and order Embark Investment Services Limited, trading as 
Embark Platform, to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman