DRN-3950537
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) delayed consolidating her 
pension and she lost out.
What happened
Mrs T said that PIC sent her a transfer quote in early September 2021. It was for around 
£45,000 and was guaranteed until 12 December 2021. She decided to go ahead and 
transfer to another provider. She chased PIC in March 2022 and was told that it had not 
received a completed application form from her, her IFA or the receiving scheme. On 18 
March 2022 the new scheme emailed PIC and said they had sent the forms in February 
2022. PIC confirmed receipt of the forms on 29 March 2022 but said the transfer quote had 
now expired. PIC also requested further information  via email to Mrs T on 29 March 2022. It 
was resent on 30 March in word document format. PIC was sent the required ID documents 
on 4 April 2022. On 8 April 2022 PIC emailed her IFA and said it needed a new letter of 
authority. Mrs Ts IFA then complained and PIC sent its final response on 14 April 2022 
confirming the previous letter of authority (LOA) expired on 11 February 2022.
A new LOA was signed on 7 May 2022 and received by PIC on 16 May 2022. Mrs T made 
further contact with PIC on 19 May but on 31 May PIC said it was still awaiting confirmation 
that she had received advice from an FCA registered adviser. It was sent to PIC on 16 June 
2022 but on 20 June it said it was still outstanding. PIC emailed Mrs T on 30 June 2022 to 
say the confirmation from the IFA did not meet its requirements.
PIC said it hadnt caused any of the delay. It confirmed it received the information it needed 
on 17 August 2022.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said that PIC wasnt chased until March 
2022 which was after the transfer quote guarantee expired. Mrs Ts IFA supplied a copy of 
the application form it sent to her new provider on 19 January 2022. The new scheme said 
they sent PIC the forms 26 days later and then resent them on 18 March 2022 which is when 
PIC said it received them. The investigator said they could not fairly hold PIC responsible if 
the forms were not received when sent especially if sent by post. After receiving the forms 
PIC explained it needed more information. It received the LOA on 16 May and completed 
form from Mrs T on 19 May. It received confirmation of financial advice on 22 August 2022. 
PIC then confirmed the new transfer value was around £36,400. The investigator thought it 
was reasonable for PIC to need forms and a LOA to complete the transfer. They didnt think 
PIC was responsible for any of the delays. From what they could see their replies were 
timely and instructions clear.
Mrs T didnt agree. She said:-
1. That the investigator had not explained why they came to the decision they did. 
2. There had been no consideration of the detriment to her. 
3. The delay had caused a reduction in her pension due to paperwork going out of date 
due to PICs continuous failure to inform her or her IFA any timeframes for the 
paperwork. This is what caused the delays. 
4. She said there were a number of occasions when she had to chase PIC rather than it 
staying on top of the transaction and providing customer service. In a situation such 
as this I would not have expected PIC to chase in papers from other parties. I say 
that as it had no way of knowing whether Mrs T wanted to accept a transfer value 
until it received all the papers and even if it did know it would not be able to take any 
steps to make the transfer, until it had received all it needed. I would expect it to 
respond in a timely fashion to the papers it was sent as they were received. As I 
have already said based on the evidence, it seems that it did. Once it had received 
all that was needed I would have expected it to drive forward the transfer to make a 
payment within the required timescales. However it seems that this position was 
never reached as the papers were not sent to it in time and the transfer value had 
expired.
5. She said she felt PIC left her to it on many occasions leaving her to chase up 
paperwork from the other two parties involved (the IFA and new provider). Most 
papers had to be in paper form and not digital and it set short expiry dates. It didnt 
offer any guidance or communicate the short expiry dates to the other parties. This 
meant they had to redo papers as they had expired because of the lack of 
communication from PIC. The result was that her transfer value was £9,000 lower. 
She was intending to use the drawdown amount to pay off her credit card but she 
was unable to do this as the transfer had still not happened.
She could have paid off this card based on the original value. She now felt she had 
to wait for the transfer to increase. She had already paid the IFA a transfer fee when 
she decided to consolidate in January 2021. She was also missing out on new 
earning growth via being invested in the new scheme. In summary she felt there had 
been inactivity, lack of communication, lack of guidance on completing forms and 
expiry dates. Further she had to chase her IFA and the new provider. This had 
affected her mental health and caused anxiety which was not resolved. Now she had 
to wait for her pension transfer to increase before she could transfer it.
The investigator didnt agree and said the findings were based on the evidence presented.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular I would like to confirm that I have read and considered the letter of February 
2023 which Mrs T sent for my attention which included further statements and a log of 
events.
Before I can consider any award I must first decide if PIC caused the delay that meant Mrs T 
missed out. For the reasons given below, I dont think it did. 
There are a number of phases to events. I have considered each in turn.
Initial phase January to March 2021
In January Mrs T makes contact with PIC to request a transfer value quote. Based on her 
timeline of events it seems that this was sent to her on 15 January 2021 (TV1) with a value 
of around £44,000. Mrs T then tells PIC she is going to consolidate her pensions and is appointing an IFA to 
advise.
By early March she has appointed an IFA, I say that as her timeline of events shows the IFA 
saying it is in the process of sending letters of authority (LOA) to various pension companies 
to obtain transfer quotes.  There is then some confusion as to whether the LOA Mrs T signed 
is enough and the IFA says that PIC rejected the one it held and needed another. I dont 
have any copy letters to show this, but I am not suggesting that this didnt happen. 
By 19 March I can see from copy documents I hold that PIC acknowledges the LOA and 
says it will expire in February 2022. It also attaches a retirement quote which has been sent 
to both Mrs T and her IFA. The covering letter is very clear that Mrs T has defined benefit or 
final salary type benefits.
Based on the evidence, I dont think that PIC is responsible for any delay during this time as 
Mrs T was taking time to instruct an IFA. But even if I am wrong Mrs T had not progressed to 
the point of accepting the January 2021 transfer value, so she didnt miss out at this stage.
From March to August 2021 
There seems to be no activity as I have no copy papers to reflect this.
From early August 2021 to September 2021
In early August 2021 Mrs T starts to chase her IFA for an update. Mrs Ts timeline shows her 
IFA telling her that the receiving scheme had completed and sent on all forms to PIC on 4 
August 2021.
However on 24 August 2021 the IFA says that PIC have told the receiving scheme Mrs T 
needs to complete a transfer form that was not previously advised. I have no supporting 
evidence for these exchanges but can see a letter of 27 August 2021 from the IFA to the 
receiving scheme enclosing a signed LOA in favour of the receiving scheme and dated 25 
August 2021. 
I can see that PIC sent Mrs T a transfer value quotation and supporting papers in early 
September 2021. The value has increased to around £45,000 (TV2). The letter is clear that 
the transfer value is guaranteed until 12 December 2021. The value will be recalculated after 
that date and it warns it could be higher or lower than the current value. It warns that:-
 If you plan to transfer your benefits to a defined contribution arrangement you may have 
heard that the transferring scheme needs to see evidence that you have had financial advice 
before going ahead. This applies to all transfers over £30,000.
It seems clear to me that these requirements applied to Mrs T and she would need to 
provide this confirmation.
Between 14 September 2021 and the end of September 2021 there is confusion as to what 
has been sent to PIC. This results in a complaint made on 27 September. PIC replies on 4 
October 2021 denying any fault. 
Based on the evidence above I cannot reasonably conclude that PIC is responsible for any 
delay as I have no evidence to show that. By the end of September the transfer value is still 
capable of acceptance so Mrs T has not missed the window of opportunity. It also seems 
from what happened in the time period up to December 2021 (see below) that not all papers 
had yet been completed by Mrs T to accept the transfer value.
From October to December 2021I can see that in mid-October Mrs T says she chases the IFA. During this time she says the 
IFA comments that his existing business is taken over and becomes part of another one. I 
note that the FCA number and names of the new and old businesses are different, 
presumably therefore meaning that new LOAs will be required. 
I note also that Mrs Ts timeline shows the IFA saying he has been busy with the takeover. 
The IFA says he has asked for the transfer to go ahead without Mrs T needing to submit any 
further forms. However by mid-October Mrs T has a call with her IFA to go through a long 
transfer form. By mid-December the IFA chases Mrs T as he had not received the papers. 
Mrs T replies to say she had not had chance to deal with them and doesnt see why they are 
chasing given how slow they have been. Mrs T returns the forms to her IFA on 28 December 
2021.
It seems to me that PIC was not the cause of any delay during this time period. The delay 
between October and December seems to be with Mrs T being busy and unable to complete 
the papers. This is unfortunate as the letter sent with the TV made clear that the value was 
only guaranteed until 12 December 2021. By the time Mrs T returned the papers to her IFA 
the quote had already expired. So I cannot see I have any evidence that PIC was 
responsible for Mrs T missing the deadline to accept it and the chance to accept the quote at 
a higher amount. 
January to 24 March 2022
The papers Mrs T gave to her IFA are then completed by it and sent on to the receiving 
scheme in mid-January 2022 for completion and sending on to PIC. This is despite the fact 
that the quote has now expired.
Mrs T starts to chase in late January. I have seen an email from the receiving scheme dated 
4 March asking when the transfer will be released and asking if they need anything further. I 
can see PIC replies to Mrs T on 10 March and tells Mrs T that it has not received any papers 
and asks if she wants a new transfer quotation. The IFA reports sending the papers to the 
receiving scheme in January and it in turn told the IFA they were sent on in February 2022. I 
have not seen evidence of the papers being sent or received by the receiving scheme or PIC 
but in any event the TV quote had already expired in December 2021.
A further complaint is made to PIC on 13 March 2022 and PIC replies on 16 March saying it 
is not at fault. Further complaints are made in April.
It is clear there was confusion about when and if papers were received by PIC but I dont 
have any evidence to show that they were sent to PIC or received by it so I cannot 
reasonably conclude it is at fault and as I have said the quote had already expired.
From 25 March 2022 to September 2022.
I have seen a copy of a letter from the receiving scheme to PIC which is stamped as 
received on 25 March 2022 and which enclosed the signed discharge forms which were 
dated 28 December 2021. This is the first evidence I have to show the forms were received 
by PIC. It also enclosed a declaration signed by the IFA and Mrs T on 16 July 2021. 
However I note that while the same IFA is advising the name of the business that he is 
working with has now changed and has a different name and authorisation number to the 
previous one. This in turn leads to issues with the LOA. Further PIC had made clear in early 
2021 that the LOA would expire in February 2022. So even if there had not been a change in 
the business of the IFA requiring a new LOA the old LOA would have expired. I think PIC 
was clear about this at the time the first LOA was sent, so there should not have been any 
surprise that the LOA then needed to be updated. PIC also says that new rules were introduced in November 2021 (after the TV was issued) 
and Mrs T now needs to complete an additional form. It also reminds Mrs T and the IFA that 
the confirmation of financial advice must be given within 3 months of the transfer value. 
A new LOA is not then signed by Mrs T until early May 2022 and received by PIC until mid-
May 2022. By the end of May Mrs T has returned the new additional form but the 
confirmation of advice on IFA headed note paper is still outstanding. This is finally sent in 
mid-June 2022. There is some confusion and I suspect messages have crossed as PIC 
initially says it has not received it but then confirms it has. 
But this confusion makes no difference as on 20 June PIC tells the IFA the letter does not 
meet the requirements it set out and repeats them. I note these were made clear in the 
original transfer value issued in September 2021 and further in an email to Mrs T on 29 
March 2022. So I dont think there should have been any surprise that it needed to provide 
this information.
The IFA later suggests to Mrs T that these are new requirements. But  it seems to me from 
the papers I have seen that the position was clear already.  The confirmation is finally 
supplied by the IFA on 27 July 2022. 
However the 27 July 2022 letter is also rejected as it was not on letterheaded paper and 
does not comply with the requirement for advice to be given within 3 months. The IFA 
resends this on 2 August 2022. PIC confirms on 4 August it is still not compliant. A further 
version is sent on 17 August 2022.
A new transfer quote is issued on 18 August 2022 (TV3) but is now lower than the previous 
one. 
Based on what I have seen I dont have evidence to conclude that PIC was responsible for 
delay in this time. It seems that a combination of the need to submit a new LOA, provide a 
new form due to new requirements introduced in late 2021, and getting confirmation of 
provision of financial advice in an appropriate form seems to have caused the delays during 
this time. 
In summary therefore I dont think PIC was responsible for the delay in Mrs T accepting the 
transfer values issued to her during this time period.
Finally I have considered some of the other points Mrs T made. She said:-
1. She felt PIC failed to inform her or her IFA of timeframes and set short expiry dates. 
But I dont agree. I say that because I think PIC was clear about how long the LOA 
would remain valid (one year) and in any event the LOA would have needed to be 
replaced due to the change in her IFAs business. Further the timeframe for 
acceptance of a transfer value from a scheme of this type is three months and this 
was clearly set out in the TV. Also the timescale for confirmation of provision of 
financial advice was also set out. So I think that PIC was clear about the timeframes 
that applied. 
2.  She had to chase PIC and didnt feel it was providing customer service by driving the 
process forward. But I dont agree. I think PIC was responsible for responding in a 
timely manner to requests. Based on the evidence I have seen I think it did respond 
in a timely manner and pointed out when items were incomplete or out of date. 3. Most of the transactions had to be paper based as PIC didnt accept digital 
information. This was frustrating especially when papers had to be redone because 
they had expired. I can understand Mrs Ts frustration that PIC took a paper-based 
approach but I cannot tell PIC how to operate and it is free to stipulate the form of 
the papers required to be submitted.
4. She didnt think PIC had acted in her best interests, she felt there had been a lack of 
customer care from them and ownership of their rules and paperwork (e.g. expiry 
dates and how to guides for the other two parties completing the papers). I have 
already commented on expiry dates. With respect to the other two parties as they 
are professionals I think it is reasonable to expect they would have the knowledge 
and experience required to complete the papers requested without needing a 
specific guide. To the extent they were not able to do so I would have expected them 
to contact PIC to ask for clarification. I have not however seen evidence that either 
the IFA or the receiving scheme lacked what they needed to complete the relevant 
papers.
5. Due to the fall in value in the transfer value and the failure to complete a transfer she 
had not been able to pay off her credit card. This is unfortunate and I can 
understand it is frustrating for Mrs T but I cannot make an award against PIC for the 
reasons set out above. 
In conclusion I cannot uphold this complaint based on the evidence presented to me.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman