DRN-3305033
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, increased his credit 
limit on several occasions, which Mr H feels were unaffordable for him at those times.
What happened
Mr H had a Barclays credit account. In March 2015, Barclays increased the credit limit on Mr 
Hs account from £4,500 to £6,000. Barclays increased the credit limit again in November 
2015, from £6,000 to £7,500, and in April and November 2016, from £7,500 to £9,000 and 
from £9,000 to £12,500 respectively.
In 2021, Mr H raised a complaint with Barclays because he felt that he hadnt been able to 
afford any of these credit limit increases and that this should have been apparent to Barclays 
had they undertaken checks into his financial position before increasing his credit limit. 
Barclays looked at Mr Hs complaint. They confirmed they had undertaken checks into his 
financial position before offering the further credit to him, and that there was nothing 
resulting from those checks which they felt should have given them reasonable cause to 
suspect that Mr H might not be able to afford the additional credit at those times.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards Mr H by increasing the credit limit on his account as they had, and so they 
didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for 
that customer at that time.
Barclays say that they did that here, and theyve confirmed that before each credit limit 
increase they reviewed how Mr H had been managing and maintaining his account for the 
months leading up to that increase, and also obtained information from a credit reference 
agency in order to get a better understanding of Mr Hs wider financial position. 
These are the types of affordability and creditworthiness check what would be expected of 
Barclays here, and its notable that in the months leading up to the first credit limit increase 
in March 2015, that Mr Hs credit account statements show that Mr H was maintaining the 
balance of the account comfortably within the credit limit and was making monthly payments 
that were significantly more than the minimum monthly payments required on the account at 
that time, so that the account balance was being reduced on a monthly basis.
Such account usage isnt indicative of a person who is experiencing financial difficulty, and 
its also notable that the information that Barclays gathered from a credit reference agency at 
that time also didnt give any indication that Mr H might have been struggling financially.
It therefore seems reasonable to me that Barclays concluded that Mr H would in all likelihood 
be able to afford the further credit that they subsequently offered to him. And I dont feel that 
Barclays acted irresponsibly towards Mr H by implementing that credit limit increase.
Similar assessments can be drawn from the information that Barclays assessed for the later 
limit increases. For instance, in December 2015, when the credit limit was increased from 
£6,000 to £7,500, the account statements confirm that Mr H continued to maintain the 
balance of the account well below the available credit limit and continued to make monthly 
payments that were considerably more than the minimum monthly payments required on the 
account at that time.
Mr Hs credit file also continued to suggest that Mr H wasnt struggling with any of his other 
credit commitments, which included a loan and other credit accounts, and that Mr H would 
be able to afford the additional credit being offered to him at that time.
When the credit limit was increased for the third time, from £7,500 to £9,000, which took 
place in April 2016, the information that Barclays assessed before providing the credit limit 
increase suggested that the Mr Hs financial health had improved. I say this because Mr Hs 
account statements show that Mr H had continued to maintain his account in a similar 
manner to how he had previously, but had also recently made a large payment to the 
account to reduce the balance to under £1,000.
Furthermore, Mr Hs credit file showed that the balance of Mr Hs existing external loan 
account had also reduced by several thousand pounds, suggestive of a large payment 
towards the account being made by Mr H.
Finally, at the time of the final credit limit increase in November 2016, from £9,000 to 
£12,000, while Mr Hs usage of the credit account had led to the balance increasing from its 
recent lows, it still remained several thousand pounds below the available credit limit, and  
Mr H continued to make monthly payments that were regularly in excess of the monthly 
minimum payments required on the account. While at the same time, Mr Hs credit file 
continued to be unproblematic, and continued to suggest that Mr H was managing his 
existing credit commitments without incident.
As such, it seems to me that in all instances, the information that Barclays assessed when 
considering the creditworthiness of Mr H before offering the credit limit increases to him 
didnt provide anything that I feel should have reasonably given Barclays cause to suspect 
that Mr H might not have been able to afford that further credit at those times.
Instead, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays, in all instances, to have concluded 
from the information that they assessed that Mr H would in all likelihood be able to afford the 
additional credit under consideration, and it follows from this that Im satisfied that Barclays 
didnt provide further credit to Mr H irresponsibly as Mr H contends here.
It must be noted that this doesnt mean that Im declaring that Mr H wasnt experiencing 
financial difficulty at those times. I acknowledge that this may have been the case, but importantly I feel that it was reasonable for Barclays to have assessed that Mr H wasnt in all 
likelihood experiencing financial difficulty such that further credit shouldnt have been 
offered, based on the information that Barclays considered as described above. And its also 
notable that at no time surrounding any of these credit limit increases did Mr H himself 
advise Barclays that he was struggling financially.
Finally, Im aware that Mr H feels that when he did later fall into financial difficulty and 
contacted a debt-charity about this, that Barclays continued to apply interest and charges to 
his account following their being contacted by the debt-charity.
Ive reviewed the contact records provided by Barclays and I can see that the debt-charity 
did contact them in March 2018. Unfortunately, by this time Mr Hs account was already in 
significant arrears, with no payments having been received on the account from Mr H since 
September 2017. 
This meant that when the debt-charity contacted Barclays, that Barclays were already in the 
process of defaulting Mr Hs account for prolonged non-payment, which took place around 
the same time that the debt-charity contacted Barclays on Mr Hs behalf. 
This defaulting of Mr Hs account had the effect of stopping the accrual of further interest and 
charges on the account so that Mr H didnt fall any further into debt, and so Im satisfied that 
it wasnt the case that Barclays continued to apply interest and charges to the account 
following their being contacted by the debt-charity as Mr H contends.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr H here in how theyve administered his credit account, and it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any 
further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman