DRN-3219244
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) was 
irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr L took out a loan with Everyday Loans for £3,500. He said the loan 
was to consolidate his debts. The loan was taken out over 24 months with an APR of 
129.3% and his monthly repayments were £304.38 making the total repayable £7,305.12. In 
2019 Mr L had difficulty making some loan repayments.
In August 2019 Mr L applied for another loan from Everyday Loans. He said the purpose of 
this loan was to consolidate more debts. He borrowed £4,000 and repaid the balance of the 
original loan. The second loan was taken out over 36 months with an APR of 129.2% and his 
monthly repayments were £308.53 making the total repayable £11,107.08.
Mr L complained that Everyday Loans hadnt properly checked he could afford the loans.
Everyday Loans looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been 
properly carried out and it thought the loans were sustainable. Mr L referred his complaint to 
us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint in part. She thought Everyday Loans shouldnt have 
made the second loan. 
As Everyday Loans disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Loans, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr L would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ls ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. Checks 
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Loan 1
With regard to the first question Everyday Loans said it obtained and reviewed Mr Ls bank 
statements for two months and a credit search. It also checked where he worked. Everyday 
Loans said it used statistical data and figures to calculate the living expense element of 
affordability. This calculation takes into consideration the customers income, region, 
household composition and residential status. They also said they applied a buffer to the 
living expenses amount to accommodate any unexpected minor changes in the customers 
circumstances or one-off additional expenses. It said its affordability calculation showed that 
Mr L would have a monthly disposable income of £882.65 after taking into account his new 
Everyday Loan monthly repayments.
I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case and didnt indicate 
that the repayments on the loan were likely to be unsustainable for Mr L. In summary, I 
dont find that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when it provided this loan to Mr L.
Loan 2Everyday Loans carried out similar checks for Loan 2. But by the time Mr L came to apply for 
this loan, there were several indications that he was having difficulty managing his finances. 
His bank statement shows that in July 2019 there were six credits from different lenders of 
£2,440 in total and despite this his account was still in an unauthorised overdraft on the day 
his salary was paid in. The credit search showed that he was over the limit on one credit 
card account and almost up to the limit on two others. He had defaulted on one loan in June 
2019.
The need for repayments to be sustainable meant Everyday Loans needed to ensure Mr L 
could meet any repayments without undue difficulty and without having to borrow further. As 
Mr L was using a number of payday lenders to supplement his income, I think his financial 
situation was probably deteriorating at that stage and he was likely to struggle to make the 
repayments under this new loan. Even after repaying some of his debt, Mr L would still need 
to use a significant share of his income to service his remaining debt each month suggesting 
a risk of unsustainability. So I dont agree that further lending wouldve been sustainable to 
Mr L at this time. 
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
To put things right Everyday Loans should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 2,
treat any payments made by Mr L in respect of this loan as payments towards the capital 
amount of £4,000,
If Mr L has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Loans should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr L.
remove any adverse information about Loan 2 from Mr Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Loans 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
(trading as Everyday Loans) should put things right for Mr L as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman