DRN-4108222
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined his claim for roof damage following 
a storm.
Mr M had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by QIC. Any reference to QIC 
includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr M claimed under his policy after his garage roof was damaged during a storm in January 
2022.
QIC agreed the weather conditions met the policy definition of a storm and appointed a field 
surveyor to assess the damage.
Mr M had a temporary repair done to protect his garage from further damage.
The field surveyor concluded that the damage wasnt caused mainly by the storm because 
there was water damage and the felt roof was cracked. The field surveyor said the roof 
wouldve already been damaged by wear and tear before the storm, evidenced by 
debonding. QIC declined Mr Ms claim under the policy exclusion of anything that happens 
gradually.
Mr M didnt think QIC had fairly declined his claim. His builder provided a report stating that 
the temporary repairs included folding and manipulating the felt roof, which wouldve caused 
cracks. Mr Ms report said the storm folded the felt roof over, causing a crack, and his roofer 
said water wouldve gained access to the roof underneath the felt during the time before the 
field surveyor visited.
QIC arranged for a further in-house review of the roof damage. It concluded that the first 
surveyor had accurately determined the cause of damage, so QIC maintained its decision to 
decline Mr Ms claim. He brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. She found Mr Ms evidence more persuasive than 
that provided by QIC because the roofer had been aware of the condition of the roof before 
the storm. Our investigator thought QIC should pay the repair cost, along with 8% simple 
interest and £150 compensation in recognition of the delays responding to Mr M and its 
failure to make its final response available until six months later.
QIC didnt agree. It pointed to two photos of the roof damage explaining that the evidence 
confirmed pre-existing wear and tear. QIC didnt think it had unfairly declined the claim, so 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Ordinarily, Id address the three questions we ask when considering a complaint 
about a claim for storm damage:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm.
Theres no dispute that there was a storm, and Im satisfied that roof damage can be 
typical of that caused by a storm, so Ill only consider the third question here.
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
QICs evidence includes photos of the garage roof, its field surveyors report and its 
in-house surveyors comment on the report. The field surveyor said the roof was dry 
and cracked with evidence of water damage underneath the felt where it had 
debonded from the roof. The in-house surveyor agreed with the comments.
Mr M described the damage. He said the storm blew his garage roof up at the edges and 
caused it to fold over on itself. His roofer issued a report confirming that the garage roof was 
in good condition prior to the storm, and that the cracking QIC reported was where the roof 
had folded over and where hed moved the felt around when making the roof watertight. The 
roofer also said that water wouldve got underneath the felt during the time between the 
storm and QIC surveying the damage.
As the reports provide conflicting conclusions, Ive looked at the evidence to determine 
which is more likely to have happened based on all the circumstances. Having done so, I 
find Mr Ms roofers report more persuasive for the following reasons:
The roofer had seen Mr Ms garage roof before the storm and reported it was in good 
condition.
The roofers description of the fold in the felt and his actions when completing the 
temporary repair seem a plausible explanation for the cracked roof.
The photos QIC provided showing the full roof suggest it was in an overall good state 
of repair.
The 63 mph winds reported on the day could reasonably cause the felt roof to lift.
Putting things right
To put matters right, QIC should reimburse Mr M for the cost of his permanent roof repair. 
He provided an invoice showing the cost as £890.
As Mr M paid the invoice, QIC should pay 8% simple interest per annum on the repair cost 
from the date he paid until the date it reimburses Mr M.
Finally, Im satisfied that the evidence shows QIC failed to communicate in a timely manner 
with Mr M and that it failed to make its findings available to him until six months after it said 
the letter was provided. Mr M had to chase its response during that time, causing further inconvenience. For that, Im satisfied that £150 compensation is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that QIC Europe Limited must:
Pay Mr M £890 to reimburse him for the cost of his roof repair.
Pay 8% simple interest* per annum from the date he paid the invoice to the date it 
reimburses his payment.
Pay £150 compensation by way of apology for the delays and failed communication 
during the claims process.  
*If QIC Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman