DRN-4195688
The complaint
Mrs I complains DT & T Corporation Limited (DT) charged her for two failed international 
payments.
What happened
Mrs I says she attempted to make an online payment to the USA on her DT account, via her 
app. Mrs I says she was charged £3 for the payment even though it had been rejected 
without a full explanation why. Mrs I says she knew the bank details of the recipient were 
correct so attempted a second payment and again this rejected, and she was charged a 
further $4 for this. 
Mrs I says as a result of this delay the cost of her holiday increased by $500 and this could 
have been avoided if DT had investigated the matter fully when the first transaction failed. 
Mrs I wants DT to refund the charges for the failed transactions and to pay her $500 by way 
of compensation for the increased holiday cost.
DT says the two international payments were rejected by the recipient bank and Mrs I was 
notified of this. DT says its not its role to provide Mrs I with the correct receivers account 
details, this is solely her responsibility and if it executes the transactions in accordance with 
the instructions given and these prove to be incorrect, it will still charge the payment fee as 
outlined in its terms and conditions. Mrs I wasnt happy with DTs response and referred the 
matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt DT didnt advise or input the payment details that were rejected by the 
recipient bank, and there was evidence the payments were processed but rejected by the 
recipient bank, so this would have incurred fees. The investigator pointed out that DT 
provide the payment platform for customers to input their own transactions for processing 
and this is explained in its terms and conditions, so the investigator couldnt hold DT 
responsible for the information Mrs I input. 
Mrs I didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mrs I to discover that a payment she 
made to the USA had been rejected, even though she believed the details she input on DTs 
payment platform were correct. When looking at this complaint I will consider if DT were at 
fault for the international payment rejecting and if it was fair of them to have charged the fees 
for the two failed transactions. 
Mrs Is complaint centres around the fact DT unfairly charged her for two rejected payments 
she made online to the USA using its payment platform and it should have provided her with 
better  advice to enable the payments to correctly reach their intended destination.  
While I understand the points Mrs I makes here, Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I 
say this because DT here have followed the instructions Mrs I input herself on its payment 
platform and it wasnt involved directly in that part of the process, so Im satisfied it did carry 
out the instructions Mrs I asked of them. Unfortunately, the recipient bank rejected the two 
payments, and I cant hold DT responsible for that. So, its fair to say DT processed the 
payments as instructed and its reasonable to say the fees for doing so would become due. 
In fact, this is detailed in DTs terms and conditions under section 16.4 :
If we have executed the Transaction in accordance with the instructions you have provided 
to us, and that information proves to have been incorrect, we are therefore, not liable for the 
incorrect execution of the transaction  Additionally, under section 14.1 it goes on to say: 
You agree to pay our fees in connection with the use of our services. We will not process 
your transactions until we have received the fees from you.
Mrs I believes DTs counterpart should have known of the correct routing code and the app/ 
payment platform should have been clearer on this, however, while Mrs I may not agree 
thats the process DT uses and its not for me to tell DT to change or modify its operations or 
processes of its payment platforms. 
Given all the information I have seen, I am satisfied it was Mrs Is responsibility to check that 
all the correct details and information needed to carry out an international payment were 
provided before sending the payment, as outlined in DTs terms and conditions. With that in 
mind I cant hold DT responsible for the fact the two payments rejected as the details were 
input by Mrs I and not them. While Mrs I will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be 
asking anymore of DT here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman