DRN-1847541
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until earlier this year, Mr M and Ms N held with 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. Theyre unhappy at the way Barclays handled a request from them to 
sell off part of the mortgaged property as a strategy for clearing their arrears and further 
reducing the mortgage balance.
 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding some of the figures involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my decision is 
published.
The circumstances of this complaint, briefly, are that Mr M and Ms N wanted to separate the 
lower flat from the title of their mortgaged property and sell it as a means of clearing their 
arrears. They anticipated being able not just to clear the arrears but reduce the overall debt 
down to around £60,000. Barclays told them it would require a non-disclosable valuation on 
the residual property and asked for a fee of £200 by cheque. 
Mr M and Ms N replied agreeing to this, but when Barclays received their letter, it seems no 
cheque was enclosed. Ms N paid the £200 by card over the phone. After receiving the 
valuation, Barclays declined the request to sell off the flat; it said the arrears needed to be 
repaid first and Mr M and Ms N needed to demonstrate the remaining mortgage would be 
affordable.
Mr M and Ms N complained about the decision, the amount of time it had taken and about 
various customer service aspects relating to how Barclays had dealt with them individually. 
They were also very unhappy that Barclays wouldnt disclose the valuation outcome to them.
Barclays defended its decision not to allow the partial sell off, but accepted it had handled 
matters poorly in places. It offered Mr M and Ms N £600 compensation. In the meantime, 
Mr M and Ms N borrowed from a family member to clear the arrears and then a short time 
later, repaid the mortgage in its entirety.
Our investigator thought Barclays had responded fairly to the complaint. Mr M and Ms N 
have asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They say the compensation on offer 
might deal with the service matters but not the wider issue that it took five months for the 
bank to tell them something it could have told them right at the outset. They say Barclays 
acknowledged theirs was special case, but didnt have a strategy or person to treat it 
accordingly.
What Ive decided  and why
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. And I reiterate that I have to be mindful that I dont include anything in this 
decision that might identify Mr M and Ms N.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is contradictory, incomplete, or missing altogether, I have to decide what is 
most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities based on the evidence that is 
available. Thats broadly the same test used by the courts in civil cases.
Mr M and Ms N have said (and I paraphrase slightly here) that the problems with the 
valuation payment and other service-related matters are subsidiary to the wider issue. I 
agree; but Im satisfied the compensation Barclays has offered them for these matters is fair 
in all the circumstances. 
The real crux here is the decision not to allow the partial sell off to go ahead, the reasons 
behind it and the time it took to make that decision. 
What Mr M and Ms N were asking of Barclays was to agree to a reduction in the debt owed 
to it alongside a reduction in its security for that debt. Thats a lending decision, and as a 
starting point, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement on lending decisions. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an 
application for lending, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending 
criteria. 
Barclays lending criteria does allow for the partial sell off of the security for an existing debt, 
and its common ground that one of the banks requirements is that any arrears must be 
cleared in full before than can happen. Mr M and Ms N point to that as evidence Barclays 
could have told them it wouldnt agree to the partial sell off as soon as they raised it, which 
they say was in May 2019. Ill come back to that date in a moment.
On first glance, I can see why that might seem a reasonable argument, but when its put to 
close scrutiny, it seems to me that Mr M and Ms N are rather arguing against their own point 
that theirs was a special case that required special treatment. 
Yes, its true that Barclays starting policy is to insist on arrears being cleared first, and if it 
had simply said that from the outset, then it might have faced criticism for not giving 
consideration to what Mr M and Ms N describe as their non-standard circumstances. But 
Barclays did give consideration to those circumstances by agreeing to look further into Mr M 
and Ms Ns proposal. One aspect of looking further into it was to obtain a valuation of what 
would remain as security if the partial sell off went ahead.
Lenders arent themselves experts in property, so they have to rely on other parties who are;
typically firms of surveyors and/or valuers. Barclays duty to Mr M and Ms N was to appoint a 
suitably qualified surveyor to carry out the valuation. Provided it did that, Barclays was 
entitled to rely on the surveyors opinion when deciding whether, and on what terms, to 
sanction a partial sell off. Im satisfied Barclays met its duty to Mr M and Ms N; the surveyor it instructed is suitably 
qualified by virtue of being a fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
I have no remit to consider whether there were shortcomings in the way the valuation was
conducted, as it was the work of the surveyor, not Barclays.
As far as disclosure is concerned, the sole purpose of the valuation was to allow Barclays to 
make an underwriting decision. There was no duty in its part to share the result of the 
valuation with Mr M and Ms N, even though the cost of it (£200) fell on Mr M and Ms N. 
Insofar as it assisted Barclays in reaching a decision on their proposal, Mr M and Ms N have 
received the service the fee paid for, even if the decision reached wasnt the one theyd 
hoped for.
I said Id come back to the point about when this proposal first started. Mr M and Ms N say 
this was in May 2019 when they wrote to the bank to say they had a buyer. Looking closely 
at that letter, it makes no mention of selling part of the security; it refers simply to the sale of 
our property. 
The letter references an attached exchange between solicitors giving details of the sale. I 
dont know exactly what form that attachment took, but Ive seen a copy of a solicitors letter 
written on 22 May 2019 on which the property address given in the subject heading is the 
mortgaged property prefaced with the word Lower. But the letters content doesnt 
specifically mention that this is a partial sell off. If that was the attachment to the letter Mr M 
and Ms N rely on, Im not sure how helpful it will have been in clarifying what they were 
proposing to sell. 
Ive looked through the contact notes Barclays kept of its dealings with Mr M and Ms N 
during 2019. I accept such notes arent fool-proof, but they have the benefit of being 
contemporaneous; that is, they were made at the time of the events they record. So unless 
theres a compelling reason to do otherwise, Ill generally attach some weight to such notes. 
Whilst these do show that a possible property sale was under discussion, the earliest 
reference I can find to a partial sell off is on 24 July 2019 where the bank records receipt of a 
letter from a third-party firm acting for Mr M and Ms N.
Thats not to say I rule out entirely the possibility that Barclays knew sooner that the proposal 
was for a partial sell off. I dont rule out the possibility it may have been made aware by other 
means; but Mr M and Ms N are the ones who maintain the May 2019 letter was the means. 
Im not convinced the May 2019 letter was the starting point, and whilst I accept its possible 
the bank knew earlier than 24 July 2019, thats the earliest date I can rely on with any 
confidence from the available evidence. 
From that point, the contemporaneous notes show that telephone discussions took place 
over a number of weeks until on 27 August 2019, Barclays wrote confirming it would 
consider the proposal subject to a valuation and payment of the £200 fee. 
Stepping back and taking an overview, I dont find that to be excessive; and I make one last 
observation. Barclays letter of 27 August closes with the following narrative:
Once we have received the valuation we will contact you again with our requirements.
Aside from anything else, Im satisfied that sentence put Mr M and Ms N on notice that 
agreement to the partial sell off was not a formality to which they were entitled. Barclays did 
give their situation special consideration, and whilst there were some problems with how it 
was handled (for which Im satisfied the bank has offered fair compensation) the outcome of 
that special consideration wasnt unfair, even though I fully appreciate it was unwelcome. Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, Im not persuaded 
that a fair outcome requires Barclays to pay Mr M and Ms N more redress than it has 
already. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. If 
on further reflection Mr M and Ms N wish to accept Barclays offer, they should contact the 
business directly.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman