DRN-3709217
The complaint
Ms M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard (NewDay) irresponsibly gave 
her a credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 4 February 2015 Ms M applied for a credit account with NewDay. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £100. The credit limit was increased four times to £3,600 on 5 
February 2017. The credit increases were as follows; to £600 on 31 May 2015, to £1,500 
on 30 September 2015, to £2,750 on 3 March 2016 and to £3,600 on 5 February 2017.
On 26 August 2021, Ms M complained to NewDay to say that the account shouldnt have 
been opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
NewDay thought we couldnt consider the first two lending decisions as they were made 
more than six years before the complaint was raised. Our adjudicator agreed with that. He 
then assessed the complaint about the lending decisions from 30 September 2015 and 
thereafter. Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. NewDay didnt 
agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I disagreed with the adjudicator and NewDay about the scope of our investigation, and Ill 
repeat some of that argument below. But, in a sense, no-one has suffered detriment as 
our adjudicator thought that the complaint should be upheld only from the last credit 
increase. And so, presumably, even had he been able to consider the initial credit limit 
and the first credit limit increase, he wouldnt have upheld them.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 22 August 2022, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments provided by Ms M and 
NewDay to decide whether Im able to look at this complaint.
There are rules about the types of complaints that this service can and cant look at. One 
of those rules is about how quickly complaints need to be raised. It says that, where a 
business doesnt agree, I cant consider a complaint made more than six years after the 
event complained of. Or, if later, more than three years after the complainant (in this case, 
Ms M) was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R can be found on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website, 
or a copy can be provided on request.
Ms Ms complaint is that the credit given to her by NewDay was irresponsibly given 
because it was unaffordable and unsustainable for her. She says it caused her to suffer 
protracted financial difficulties. NewDay says that the account in question was opened in 
February 2015 and the first credit increase was in May 2015, which would be the event 
talked about in the rules. I can see that her CMC raised a complaint with NewDay on 26 
August 2021. So, clearly more than six years after the initial credit limits were given.
The question is whether I think she knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that she 
had cause to complain about NewDay more than three years before she first did so. In 
that way, I can decide whether her complaint was made within the second part of the time 
limit or not. It is disappointing to see that NewDay has not really engaged with this second 
aspect of the relevant DISP rules.
As already explained, I am required to consider Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R 2(b) when 
determining whether the complaint has been brought in time. Not whether Ms M knew she 
could raise concerns in general, but whether she ought reasonably to have known that 
she had cause to make this complaint.
It may well be that Ms M was aware before 26 August 2021 that she was experiencing 
financial difficulties in relation to this account. But the question is not whether she was 
aware of that, but whether she ought reasonably to have become aware that those 
difficulties might be the result of acts or omissions of NewDay before 26 August 2018. 
That is because she has three years from that point of awareness to raise a complaint.
In short, I have seen nothing to suggest that Ms M should have realised that she had 
cause for complaint against NewDay prior to her raising her complaint in 2021, nor has 
NewDay offered any evidence or arguments to support that conclusion. Without evidence 
to show that Ms M ought reasonably to have known that she had cause for complaint 
against NewDay, Im satisfied this complaint was not brought too late.
And so, I am proceeding to consider the complaint in its entirety.
Merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here.
Ms Ms complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. Its not 
easy to determine affordability when Ms M has been unable or unwilling to provide bank 
statements for her day to day account from the times in question. If Mrs M has some bank 
statements, I would be happy to consider them before progressing the case further.NewDay has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer and to consider this in association with 
Ms Ms management of her account in making further lending decisions about credit limit 
increases. Its possible that NewDay failed to make adequate checks before providing Ms 
M with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused 
NewDay to think the initial credit limits or the credit increases were unaffordable.
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the minimum monthly payments 
for that credit were also relatively modest. From the evidence submitted, there were no 
payment issues in the life of this account through all of the increases to the credit limit. 
Overall, I have placed more weight on this matter than our adjudicator did; that the 
account was well managed throughout. And Ms M did not, until after the last credit 
increase, use anywhere near the full amount of her credit limit and she appears to have 
missed not a single payment.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms M to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led NewDay to think that the credit it 
provided Ms M was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Ms M was 
managing her account or what NewDay could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did.
I know that Ms M will be disappointed with my decision, but I want Ms M to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. But having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the credit and the credit 
increases, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint.
I apologise for the fact that the letters which accompanied the provisional decision referred 
to a response date of 5th September. In the provisional decision, I asked the parties to the 
complaint to let me have any further representations that they wished me to consider by 19 
September 2022. As this date allowed more time to respond, I have waited for that date to 
pass before proceeding. 
At the time of writing, neither NewDay nor Ms M have acknowledged receiving the decision, 
or made any further submission, or asked for an extension to do so. I think that both parties 
have had sufficient time to make substantive further submissions if they had wished to. So, I 
am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Ms Ms complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman