DRN-3085457
The complaint
Mr W complains about the roadside assistance service he received from Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited (Acromas), when he needed help while he was travelling abroad.
Any reference I make to Acromas in this decision also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr W has European Breakdown Cover that is underwritten by Acromas. Acromas are 
responsible for the issues Mr W encountered relating to the recovery of his car. 
On 15 December 2019, Mr W says that while he was in Spain, on his way to his holiday 
destination, his car alerted him to an engine management system failure. Mr W says that the 
car was full of everything he needed for his six week holiday with his wife and their two dogs. 
Mr W says he called Acromas, who arranged for his car to be inspected the next day. 
Following inspection, the car was sent to a local garage, where Mr W also picked up a hire 
car for, what he thought would be, the 14 days he was entitled to under his cover.
On 17 December 2019 the garage emailed Mr W to say it would cost almost 5,000 euros to 
repair his car. Acromas said that it would need to see a copy of the diagnosis from the 
garage before it would decide what to do next. Mr W says he called Acromas twice a day 
every day for the next three days to confirm that it had the diagnosis. Eventually, after three 
days, Mr W says he emailed his copy of the diagnosis to Acromas.
On 20 December 2019, Acromas made the decision to recover Mr Ws car and transport it 
back to the UK. Mr W was given a replacement hire car which would be covered under the 
policy until 30 December 2019. 
Mr W says that he was contacted everyday by the garage to find out when the car would be 
collected. Mr W says that on 3 January 2020, Acromas contacted him to let him know that it 
didnt have the facility to pay the dealership for the diagnostic. And that the car couldnt be 
collected until the bill was paid. Mr W says that Acromas asked him to pay the bill of 644.33 
euros and to send a copy of the invoice to customer services to be reimbursed.
Mr W says that when his car was returned back to the UK on 24 January 2020, it was taken 
to his local garage and it took less than 24 hours to replace one fuel injector and return his 
car to roadworthy state. Mr W says that the delays in recovery meant that he didnt have the 
option to return to the UK to collect his car so he could drive back to continue with his 
holiday. And that as a result of the delay in recovery, he incurred a cost of 949.68 euro for a 
hire car.
Mr W says that it was very difficult and stressful for him, his wife and his dogs to get back to 
the UK without their car. In addition to the above, Mr W says he made many phone calls to 
Acromas, sent a number of emails and has written letters. But the communication he has 
received from them has been poor throughout. 
Mr W says the cost he paid for the diagnostic wasnt reimbursed until 17 April 2020 (when he 
paid this and sent the bill on 3 January 2020). He says the cost of additional hire car he 
needed hasnt been covered by Acromas. And his holiday was ruined as a result of having to 
contact Acromas so often  this stress and time could have been avoided or reduced if 
Acromas had responded to his issues.
To put things right, Mr W would like Acromas to pay late payment interest on the 644.33 
euros for when it didnt reimburse him in a timely manner. Cover the cost of the extra time 
he needed the hire car which was 949.68 euros  he would also like interest adding to this 
payment. Increase its offer of compensation to £1,000. And extend the cover on his car until 
February 2024.
Acromas responded to Mr Ws complaint to say that it didnt uphold his complaint about the 
recovery of his car, but it agreed to reimburse him the 644.33 euros for what he paid for the 
diagnostic, because it had given him some misleading information. It said his complaint 
about the communication he had received was being considered by a different company.  
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr W, but didnt uphold his complaint. They found 
that the time taken for Mr Ws car to be sent back to the UK wasnt unreasonable, and it 
found that Acromas had already done enough to try and resolve Mr Ws complaint by 
reimbursing him for the diagnostic.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Mr Ws situation. Its clear that he feels very 
strongly about his complaint. In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay 
or disregard the situation Mr W has found himself in. Ive no doubt that not having the use of 
his car while he was away was at best, a big inconvenience for both him and his wife.
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. And I have to look to see if Acromas has acted fairly and reasonably when
dealing with Mr W  and I think it has.
Acromas are the underwriters of Mr Ws Roadside Assistance European Breakdown Cover. 
So they are responsible for, in this case, bringing Mr Ws car back to the UK after it had 
become potentially unsafe to drive. The main crux of Mr Ws complaint here is that Acromas 
took too long to get his car repatriated back to the UK, and that he says he incurred 
additional costs as a result of these delays. So, its now for me to decide, if Acromas caused 
unnecessary delays, and if Acromas were the cause of these delays, did Mr W incur 
additional costs as a result of this.Mr Ws policy states that Vehicle recovery from Western Europe will take on average 8-14 
working days. At busy periods and from further destinations, recovery may take longer. 
Looking at whats happened, I can see that Mr Ws car was taken to a local garage on 16 
December 2019. At this point the garage needed to run a diagnostic test to determine what 
the issue with the car was and how much the repairs would likely cost. The following day, the 
garage let Mr W know that it would cost around 5,000 euros for the repair work. Ive looked 
at the contact notes provided by Acromas, which show that Mr W got in touch with it to 
enquire about recovery back to the UK. So it appears that Mr W didnt want to have his car 
fixed while he was away and his preference was for it to be repaired back in the UK. 
In order for Acromas to be able to arrange for a recovery agent, it needed to get information 
from the garage about the cost of repairs. This is because the policy conditions state that it 
wouldnt arrange recovery if the repair was going to cost more than the market value of the 
car. 
It took Acromas around two days to get hold of this information  based on what Ive seen, it 
appears that it got this information from Mr W in the end. But I dont find that the two to three 
days has caused a significant delay to Mr Ws car being repatriated. 
The notes from Acromas do show that it took longer than it would have liked for the 
repatriation to be arranged. And I can see that the garage was also contacting Mr W on a 
daily basis to find out when the car would be collected. Acromas agreed the repatriation of 
Mr Ws car on 20 December  it also started arrangements to get the car picked up on this 
date too. 
Acromas uses a third party to help with recoveries when abroad. Based on what Ive seen, it 
appears that one of the companies it used wasnt responding to numerous communications 
it had sent to it, regarding some information it needed from them before it could arrange 
collection of the car. This is what resulted in the delays in the car being collected. Because 
of this, Mr Ws car wasnt picked up from the garage until 18 January 2020 and it was 
subsequently delivered to Mr Ws local garage on 24 January 2020.
So, from when the repatriation was agreed, up until the car was delivered to Mr Ws garage, 
it took around 21 working days, which is more than the average time that Acromas has 
stated in the policy documents. 
But the wording in the policy documents doesnt provide a guaranteed timeframe for 
repatriation. And it states that it could take longer during busy periods. It also states 
National holidays and working hours vary throughout Europe. This will impact on the service 
arranged for the Authorised Driver, especially during busy periods. Mr Ws car was awaiting 
collection from the garage over the Christmas period, so I think Acromas comments that this 
was a busy period are probably fair. And so, I dont think Acromas have acted unreasonably 
here. 
Its clear that Mr W has incurred additional unexpected costs as a result of the problems with 
his car. But based on what Ive said above, I dont think it would be fair of me to hold 
Acromas responsible for these costs.
Even if I were to say that the delays were unacceptable, which to be clear Im not saying 
they were, I think its likely Mr W would have always incurred some of, if not all, of the costs 
he has done. And so, I dont think it likely it would have made a difference to him if his car 
had arrived back in the UK sooner. I say this because, Mr W hadnt planned on getting his car repaired abroad once he received 
the quote, so it would have always needed to have been repatriated to the UK before he 
could safely drive it. Mr W told Acromas that he wasnt planning on leaving his holiday 
destination until 1 February 2020, so, Mr W would have been without his car for this period 
anyway. And so likely to have incurred additional car hire costs during this time. 
Acromas has been clear with Mr W throughout the course of his claim that he was only 
covered for a hire car for up to 14 calendar days. And it wouldnt cover the costs for any 
additional time after this. So I cant see that Mr W has been misled in anyway about the hire 
car costs he would likely incur after the cover had run out  and he chose to continue to hire 
a car for the remainder of his stay.
Ive thought about what Mr W has said about the delays in repatriation removing his option of 
being able to travel back to the UK get his car fixed, and then traveling back with the car to 
continue his holiday. I havent seen any mention of Mr Ws intention to do this in the contact 
notes provided by Acromas, so I cant be certain that this was his plan at the time. And I can 
see that Mr W was in conversation with Acromas in early January about travel arrangements 
back to the UK on the 1 February 2020, so it seems as though his intention was to travel in 
February as planned. Because of this, I dont think I can fairly say that Mr W has incurred 
these costs as a result of the car not arriving back in the UK sooner. 
I can also see that Mr Ws car was back in the UK by the time he arrived home, so the length 
of time it took to get back to him hasnt exceeded his trip away and so I dont find it likely that 
the time it took for the car to get back to the UK has caused an additional inconvenience 
here.
Acromas asked Mr W to pay for the cost of the diagnostic to the garage. The notes that Ive 
seen suggest that the warranty extension (that Mr W had, but not provided by Acromas) isnt 
recognised outside of the UK. So the car wouldnt be released by the garage until the 
diagnosis cost was paid.
Because the garage didnt accept the warranty extension, I dont think it was unreasonable 
of Acromas to ask Mr W to pay this. Acromas arent responsible for these costs incurred at 
the garage, and so I dont find that it was unreasonable of it to initially not accept to 
reimburse Mr W this cost. Although, I can see that it did agree to do this to try and settle the 
complaint  which under the circumstances, I think is more than fair.
While it is clear Mr W has incurred costs as a result of the problems with his car, and not 
being able to use it. I dont find that these have been down to anything that I can fairly say 
Acromas is responsible for. 
Clearly, Mr W has spent some time on the phone to Acromas while he was away, which I 
have no doubt impacted the enjoyment of his stay. But situations like Mr Ws are likely to be 
an inconvenience. And I can see that many of the calls hes had are trying to arrange travel 
home, which again I can understand would be stressful. I dont think that Acromas have 
acted unfairly here, or caused Mr W unnecessary inconvenience. Even if I were to accept 
that some of the service Acromas provided could have been better, I wouldnt ask it to do 
any more for Mr W, given that it has already agreed to pay the cost of the diagnostic, which it 
didnt have to do. 
I understand that Mr W has also raised concerns about some of the service he received  in 
particular responses to some of his correspondence. But this part of Mr Ws complaint has 
been looked at by a different business and so I havent considered this in this decision about 
Acromas.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman