DRN-1462549
 
The complaint
Ms L says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term high-cost loans Mr Lender provided to Ms L between 
July 2016 and April 2018. They varied in term from three to 12 months. This is a summary of 
Ms Ls lending history from Mr Lender. 
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 18/07/2016 27/09/2016 250
2 08/10/2016 20/12/2016 750
3 23/12/2016 09/05/2017 1000
4 10/05/2017 14/04/2018 1500
5 14/04/2018 30/07/2019 1250
 
Our adjudicator thought the loans from loan 4 onwards shouldnt have been given. Mr 
Lender didnt agree, but made an offer on loan 5. Ms L rejected this settlement offer so the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint.
Mr Lender has shared the checks it carried out for affordability and creditworthiness before 
agreeing to lend to Ms L. I have found nothing to indicate Mr Lender needed to do more 
when it approved loans 1 to 3. So I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to 
Ms L.
However, I agree with the adjudicator that by loan 4 there were indications that Ms L was 
having difficulty repaying her previous loans and was most likely struggling to manage her 
money. I say this as from loan 1 onwards each time Ms L repaid a loan she borrowed again 
within a matter of days. And each time the loan value increased significantly. So much so 
that by loan 4 Ms L was borrowing six times more than she had ten months earlier when she 
took out loan 1.  I think at this stage Mr Lender ought to have realised that Ms Ls finances 
were most likely under pressure and stopped lending. 
At the very least it should have carried out a fuller financial review at this stage. 
Proportionate checks would have shown how frequently Ms L was borrowing from a number 
of short term lenders, seemingly only taking out new loans to repay existing ones. I know Mr 
Lenders checks asked for the value of short terms loans to be included in loan expenses, 
but I dont think the level of information it asked for was sufficient given the circumstances.
It follows I dont think Mr Lender should have given loan 4 to Ms L. I know Mr Lender argues 
that loan 4 was affordable and its checks showed Ms L was left with enough disposable 
income. But this ignores its responsibility not to lend if it was likely she was not going to be 
able to repay without borrowing further.  And by this stage I think there was information 
available to Mr Lender suggesting this was not most likely the case.
Ive then looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Ms L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ls case, I think that this point was reached at loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Ms L was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. As Ive said previously, each loan was taken out shortly after 
repaying the previous one - the longest gap in her borrowing was 11 days. So Mr 
Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms L was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan(s) was leaving in her finances 
and that Ms Ls indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
From loan 5 onwards Ms L was provided with a new loan on the same day as 
repaying a previous one. 
Ms L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mr Lender. She had 
taken out five loans in the 21 months after her first loan. Mr Lender ought to have 
known that Ms L was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income 
but to meet an ongoing need. Ms L had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
 
I think that Ms L lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing for loan 5 
because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ls indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
this loan was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Ls ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
I have carefully considered Mr Lenders response to our adjudicators view but for the 
reasons set out above its points do not change my conclusion. I have explained why the 
increase in value from loans 1 to 4 is of relevance. I note it also points to its reliance on Ms 
Ls answers to the questions it asked her prior to agreeing loan 4. But this does not change 
the obligations it had as a responsible lender.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 onwards, and Mr Lender should put things 
right. 
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Ms L paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loan 4 from Ms Ls credit file
any information recorded about loan 5 is adverse, so all entries about loan 5 should 
be removed from Ms Ls credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Ls complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Ms L compensation as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman