DRN-3723556
The complaint
Mr B (through a representative) complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
checks before it granted a loan which he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr B took four loans from Morses between July 2018 and May 2019. A summary of his 
borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £500.00 25/07/2018 05/12/2018 33 £25.00
2 £800.00 27/11/2018 01/11/2019 52 £28.00
3 £300.00 28/02/2019 18/10/2019 33 £15.00
4 £300.00 17/05/2019 06/11/2019 33 £15.00
The cost per week column is the weekly repayment for each loan, where loans overlapped 
the cost per week will increase. For example, while loans 2, 3 and 4 were outstanding Mr Bs 
commitment to Morses was £58.
Following Mr Bs complaint, Morses considered it and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this 
response, Mr Bs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Morses made a reasonable 
decision to lend the first loan. However, she thought, given the increase in borrowing and 
term for loan 2 that this loan and all future loans Morses needed to have carried out further 
checks perhaps by reviewing his bank statements. But these werent available, so the 
adjudicator couldnt say what Morses may have seen if it had carried out a proportionate 
check. 
Mr Bs representative didnt agree and explained it thought all the loans should be upheld 
because the credit report Morses carried out before loan 1 showed that Mr B had defaults 
and a number of recent missed payment markers. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Loan 1
Before the loan was approved, Morses took details of Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
Morses recorded Mr Bs income as being around £340 per week with weekly outgoings of 
£170. Morses was therefore aware that he had around £170 per week in which to make the 
weekly loan payment of £25. 
Morses may well have reasonably concluded that based solely on the income and 
expenditure information that Mr B would be in a position to afford this loan. 
Before this loan was approved Morses also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
copy of the results. 
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect the information Mr B 
may be able to view in a credit report that he can obtain. There could be for a number of 
reasons for this, such as Morses only asking for certain pieces of information such as the 
number of active credit accounts. But what Morses cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it 
received  if necessary.  
Ive considered the results that it has provided. Having reviewed these results, there is some 
adverse information such as Morses being aware of four defaults  but the most recent of 
which was recorded some 9 months before this loan. Which would indicate that in the past, 
Mr B had some repayment problems, but these defaults on its own wouldnt have led, in my 
view to Morses carrying out further checks. 
Morses was also aware that Mr B had around £4,200 of existing debt across at least 10 
credit accounts, I dont think this was an excessive amount of outstanding debt or something 
that wouldve triggered Morses to have carried out further checks. 
However, Morses was aware, that there may have been some recent repayment problems, 
for example, the credit search results provided by Morses show that two months before this 
loan was approved, a home credit account had entered delinquency  which would likely be 
Mr B had problems repaying this loan. 
So, I do think, given there was some evidence of some recent payment problems, within the 
credit search Morses carried out, its arguable that at this point further checks ought to have 
been carried out to find out what was happening in Mr Bs finances.  These further checks 
couldve included asking to review Mr Bs bank statements. 
However, further information hasnt been provided by Mr Bs representative, so while further 
checks may have been needed to have been carried out before this loan was approved, I 
dont know what else Morses may have discovered. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Morses to have 
relied on the information Mr B provided along with the income and expenditure figures to 
show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about the loan.
Loans 2  4 
Similar checks were carried out before these loans were approved form Mr B. 
For these loans, Mr B had declared a weekly income of between £250 and £280. With 
declared outgoings of between £105 and £164 per week. This may have then led Morses to 
believe that Mr B had sufficient disposable income to afford the largest combined weekly 
loan repayment of £58.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check before it approved 
these loans. I do think, by the time these loans were approved that Morses checks needed 
to go further. Not just because further checks were, in my view arguable when loan 1 was 
approved, but by loan 2 Mr Bs borrowing had increased significantly and he was committed 
to repaying over a longer term. Mr B was also advanced further loans while he had other 
loans outstanding and this is a further reason which ought to have prompted Morses to have 
carried out further checks. 
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mr B declared to it 
about his income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Mr B could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Bs actual financial position toensure these loans were affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as 
asking for evidence of his outgoings, or looking at his bank statements. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to 
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered 
that Mr B couldnt afford these loans.
Mr Bs representative hasnt been able to provide copies of his bank statements (which
may have shown us and Morses what other commitments Mr B had and / or his living
costs) or any other information that may have shown what Mr Bs financial position was at
the time. 
This information was requested in August 2022 but hasnt been provided and so without it, I 
cant conclude what Morses may have discovered had it carried out a proportionate check. 
Looking at everything together, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest Morses
shouldnt have lent loans 2 - 4. Even considering what Mr B declared to Morses for his 
income and expenditure. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding any of Mr Bs loans. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman