DRN-2113024
The complaint
Miss Ws unhappy with the actions of U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Green Flag, 
when she called them to attend to her car under her roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In December 2019 Miss W says she called UKI to come and look at her car after it cut out 
when she was driving to work. She says they refused to look at her car because it was 
starting and wasnt showing any warning lights. Miss W says she had to plead with UKI to 
look at her car, and eventually they diagnosed the earth strap was loose. She says they told 
her it was safe to drive her car to the nearest garage  but she says that was 15 minutes 
away on fast country roads with roundabouts. She says they left her on the side of the road, 
and when she called to express concerns about her safety she was told it was only their 
responsibility to ensure the car started  not that it was safe to drive.
Because of these issues Miss W complained to UKI. They said they were sorry she felt 
abandoned on the roadside but didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said when 
they arrived at Miss Ws car it was running, with no warning lights. They say Miss W then 
told them about a new battery being fitted by a different company  who Ill call H. So, having 
looked at that, they realised there was a loose earth strap. But they didnt want to touch this 
in case they invalidated any warranty for the battery. UKI say at this point they offered to 
take Miss W to the nearest branch of H as it was them who fitted the battery  but she turned 
down this offer.
Unhappy with this, Miss W asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, and 
during her investigation found that Miss W had called H straight after UKI left her at the 
roadside. H had found there was a loose wire not connected to the battery installation 
previously. Because of this, our investigator felt it unlikely UKI had offered to take her to H, 
otherwise why would Miss W have called H to do the same thing shed just turned down. So 
our investigator felt UKI should pay Miss W £100 compensation.
Miss W accepted this, but UKI didnt. They said theyd offered to drive Miss W to H, provided 
their job sheet to prove this, and felt they hadnt done anything wrong. Because of this, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have provided explanations about their processes to support their version of events. 
And theyve argued they did offer to take Miss W to H in order for the repair to be carried out, 
along with their agents statement on this.
But, as noted above, Miss W says this was never offered. So, in the absence of evidence to 
prove what happened, I need to consider what I think is most likely to have happened  
taking into account all the available information.
Ive considered UKIs information  including their job sheet which they say shows they 
offered to take Miss W to H as their process wouldnt show the information it does without 
that. But I couldnt reasonably say the recovery agent didnt make a mistake in the 
information recorded on the job sheet  as I wasnt there. So, while I can understand UKIs 
arguments about how this supports their position, Im not persuaded by this.
I find the testimony from Miss W, which has been supported by a statement from H, more 
persuasive. I cant understand why Miss W would call UKI, refuse to be taken to H, only to 
then immediately call H and ask them to fix it. This is what Miss W has said throughout this 
complaint, and that version of events is supported by the statement H has made.
UKI have argued by attending the roadside and making sure the vehicle is driveable then 
theyve fulfilled their obligations under the policy. This is seemingly a different argument to 
not wanting to repair the car at the roadside because they didnt want to invalidate a 
warranty. But I dont think this supports UKIs position either. The section under Breakdown 
in the policy says if something stops working and the car isnt safe to drive then theyll 
recover the car. Miss W has again been consistent in saying she was concerned about her 
car cutting out again  and given an example of it cutting out on a roundabout. I think its 
reasonable to say that could be considered not safe to drive because that scenario could 
easily lead to an accident.
So, taking everything into account Im more persuaded by Miss Ws version of events, than 
UKIs. Because of that, I think its more likely than not UKI left Miss W by the roadside when 
they should have taken her to H. And I think its appropriate to award £100 for the distress 
she was caused by this situation.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order U K Insurance Limited, trading as Green Flag, to 
pay Miss W £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman