DRN-1161693
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2003 when she applied for a credit card on a 
postal application form.
What happened
Mrs T complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the claim shouldnt be upheld. Mrs 
T disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
She added the following points:
she wasn't eligible for PPI;
she wasn't asked if she needed it;
she had no choice about it - PPI was automatically added to her credit card account;
she did not tick the box - she says Capital One ticked the box earlier;
the terms and conditions and the cost and benefits were not explained. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mrs T, so Ill explain why.
Capital One says Mrs T applied for the credit card and PPI on a postal application form. She 
said no-one told her it was optional as they should have done. She also complains the  credit 
card agreement only had an "opt in" box for PPI - so she concludes she could not opt out. I 
have seen Mrs T's credit card application form. It was addressed to her so I can reasonably 
assume the form was sent to Mrs Ts home and she completed it there without talking to 
Capital One staff. So it doesn't surprise me that Capital One staff were not around to 
explain anything to her.
I can see from the copy of the original postal application form that Mrs T signed the form to 
say she wanted to be enrolled in the payment protection scheme. Mrs T says the box was 
probably ticked earlier by Capital One - but I have not seen anything on the form to support 
that. I did see that the form had Mrs T's personal details, her annual salary and that she 
already held three other cards. So I can reasonably assume Mrs T completed these details. I 
also saw she ticked the "No" options for faster processing and an immediate cash 
withdrawal. However, it's clear that in the same section of the form, she ticked "Yes" for PPI. 
She could have ticked "No". So as she had that clear choice, I think PPI was shown to be an 
optional product - just like the faster processing and immediate cash withdrawal were also 
shown as optional extras. So I think its likely Mrs T knew she had a choice about taking out 
PPI and ticked the boxes for the products she did and didn't want. Capital One said the sale was non-advised - and this is most likely as there was no 
interaction with Capital One for Mrs T's postal application. For non-advised sales, Capital 
One didnt recommend the policy to Mrs T, it just gave her information about PPI. But the 
information needed to be clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
Capital One told us it didnt have the original policy booklet or leaflets which may have 
accompanied the form  but that isnt surprising because the sale is quite old. Its likely Mrs 
T would have received some documents with the application form that would have given her 
the key features of the PPI policy - like the benefits and the cost. But its possible Capital 
One  didnt do things properly when making sure the information provided on the policy was 
good enough.
That being said even if Capital One did give all the information Mrs T needed to make 
an informed choice, I think she would have still taken the policy because at the time of the 
sale:
She was eligible for the PPI due to her age, country of residence and employment.
I dont think she would have been caught by any of the main things not covered by 
the policy (the exclusions) which could have made it difficult to make a successful 
claim. So I dont think that more detailed information about the exclusions would have 
put her off from buying PPI.
Mrs T didn't say she had any savings and she told us she either wouldn't get any sick 
pay or, at most, she'd get statutory sick pay from her employer. I think the PPI could 
have lasted for longer than her employee benefits if she made a successful claim. 
Mrs T said she could have relied on her family to make her repayments. I do 
understand the point shes making. But she may not have been able to rely on this 
help at some unknown point in the future. So I think the PPI would still have been of 
some benefit to her.
 
I dont know how Capital One explained the PPI cost and benefits to Mrs T. But theres 
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for her in 2003, so I dont think that more 
detailed information would have put her off from buying PPI. So as I think she chose to have 
PPI because she wanted it,  I think she probably bought the policy as it was probably of 
benefit to her.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional. And I think the 
information was probably clear enough for her to make an informed decision. So Im not 
going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman