DRN-3105013
The complaint
Mr S complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) have refused to replace three of his tyres 
under the terms of his insurance policy. 
Any reference I make to Lloyds in this decision also includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr S was driving over a loose-surface road when his tyres were damaged. Mr S says one 
tyre blew out and the other three suffered damage to the inner sidewall.
Mr S has an insurance policy which specifically covers his tyres and alloys. Mr S reported 
the damage to his insurer and took his car to an authorised repairer, who Ill refer to as K, to 
get the tyres replaced. 
Mr S says initially there was a delay with K getting the authorisation from his insurer. Once 
this was received K told him that they only had permission to replace the blown-out tyre and 
not the other three tyres. Mr S was not happy with this. 
Mr S contacted his insurer who told him K had reported that the other three tyres had 
cracking on them due to wear and tear which is not covered by the policy.  Mr S was also 
told that Lloyds would not pay for a further inspection of the tyres since this was not covered 
under the terms of his policy. 
Mr S complained to his insurer regarding the rejection of the claim. Lloyds said it has relied 
on Ks assessment of the damage to the tyres since they are the experts. Lloyds have said 
K were clear in their assessment of the damage to the tyres and it had no reason to 
challenge their view. Lloyds maintained that the decision to decline Mr S claim for the 
remaining three tyres was correct and in accordance with the terms of the policy. 
Mr S was not happy with the response so referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for Mr S. The investigator felt that the policy was clear that 
any wear and tear or damage that isnt accidental damage or malicious damage would not 
be covered under the terms of the policy. The investigator agreed that Lloyds had made a 
fair decision based on the evidence it had and did not uphold the complaint. 
Mr S did not agree with the investigator and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S policy is clear that it covers the cost of replacing or repairing your tyresas a result of 
accidental or malicious damage  
Under section 4 What is not covered the policy specifically states the following;
4.7 any damage or defect to the tyre and/or alloy which is not accidental or malicious 
damage
4.8 general wear and tear
Mr S believes that the damage to the three tyres was related to the incident in which the 
fourth tyre burst. 
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, our service cant 
determine how the damage occurred. Instead what we look at is the information the 
insurance company relied on to make its decision and whether it treated the customer fairly 
in doing so. 
In this case Lloyds approved repairer was K who inspected the damage to the tyres. K 
referred their findings to the claim handler at Lloyds. 
During that call K confirmed that the damage to the three tyres was due to wear and tear, 
and not caused by driving on the loose-surface road. On that basis the claims handler 
provided authorisation to replace the fourth blown out tyre since that was the only one 
covered under the policy.
I know Mr S feels that K did not carry out an adequate inspection of the tyres. Since K are 
the experts in this matter they will carry out an inspection as they see fit. I am satisfied 
Lloyds used Ks professional opinion to make its decision to decline that part of the claim. 
There is not a specific report available but I have listened to the call between K and Lloyds 
in order to help make my decision. 
Mr S has provided a number of photographs and other evidence to Lloyds in order to 
support his assertion that the cracking on his tyres was as a result of driving on the 
aforementioned road. The fact that the tyres are damaged is not in dispute. According to K 
the damage was not due to driving on that particular road, but due to the normal wear and 
tear of tyres.
I have listened to the calls between the insurer and Mr S.  Mr S says that when he took his 
car to Mercedes to replace his alloys they told him that the tyres were not repairable and had 
cracks in them. I can see the insurer told Mr S that he could take his car to Mercedes for 
their opinion on the cause of the damage, since he did not agree with Ks assessment. In 
addition the policy states that it is possible for Mr S to use his own repairer as long as they 
contact the insurer to obtain authorisation prior to starting any work. I cant see evidence that 
Mr S took his car to Mercedes for an opinion on the tyres. 
I can understand Mr S feels it is unfair his insurer wont cover the cost of replacing the other 
three tyres. But the insurer is entitled to rely on the professional opinion of its authorised 
repairer. And when the claim was declined by the insurer it did explain that Mr S was free to 
take his car to another repairer for a second opinion. The insurer also said that if the other 
repairer felt that the damage was due to the road conditions then it would look at the claim 
again and pay for the replacement of the tyres. I cant see that Mr S took his car to another 
repairer for their opinion. I dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly here. 
I believe that Lloyds made a fair decision not to cover the damage to the tyres and is entitled 
to rely on the information provided to it by their authorised repairer My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman