DRN-2370413
The complaint
Mr G complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA has refused to refund a purchase 
under its Buyer Protection Scheme that was not delivered.
What happened
Mr G says he bought an item on a website that ought to have been covered by PayPals 
Buyer Protection Scheme. He says the item was not delivered on 25 June 2020 as the 
delivery company, I will call H, says. Mr G says he received notification that the item was 
delivered and searched for it in the vicinity of his house but couldnt find it and so asked 
PayPal for a refund. He says the incident caused him extreme stress and resulted in him 
attending a hospital. He also says the incident resulted in a lost tooth which cost him £200 in 
treatment.
PayPal says the item was bought on 18 June 2020 for £420 and says H provided evidence 
to it that the item was delivered on 25 June 2020. It says in those circumstances it was 
entitled to conclude that the item was delivered and so was entitled not to refund Mr G under 
the Buyer Protection Scheme.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought Mr 
G had contacted PayPal straight away and thought Hs policy was to take a photograph of 
the delivered item which was not provided. The investigator thought the Buyer Protection 
Scheme stated that a delivery address must match the transaction date and that the delivery 
information must show at least the city, state and postcode. The investigator thought PayPal 
should refund the money and pay £25 compensation.
PayPal doesnt accept that view and says it was given evidence the item was delivered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the tracking information provided by H and PayPals Buyer 
Protection Scheme. I can see that the tracking information from H only has part of Mr Gs 
address and just includes his house name and street but doesnt have a postcode, county or 
even a country. I have compared that information with PayPals requirements under its 
Buyer Protection Scheme which says it requires at least country, city/state and postcode 
details. I can also see that there is a requirement for the delivery address to match the 
transaction address and whilst I have not compared the two- I think it unlikely that Mr Gs 
address details would be as limited as the information H has provided to PayPal.
So, I dont think PayPal has acted in line with its own Buyer Protection Scheme and whilst I 
accept it isnt responsible for Hs actions, Im satisfied that Mr G ought to have been covered 
under that scheme in these circumstances.
I think the fairest approach would be for PayPal to refund Mr G the cost of the item which is 
£420. I appreciate Mr G says this incident caused him a significant level of stress and led to 
him attending a hospital and receiving an injury. I dont think Mr G has explained why the 
injury was linked to this incident or why this incident would cause such a high level of 
distress.
I accept Mr G was caused inconvenience and would have been concerned about the 
missing item. But I dont think that would have had a significant impact on Mr G and Im 
satisfied the compensation of £25 recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I intend to order PayPal to refund the money and pay compensation of £25.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to 
pay Mr G a total of £445 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman