DRN-3500629
The complaint
Miss S complains that she was mis-sold a Flex Plus Account (FPA) in February 2017 by 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S says that she wasnt told about the monthly fee for the FPA and would not have paid 
it or had the account if she had known about it.
Nationwide says it would not have opened the FPA without Miss Ss signed consent and it 
says it sent her copious statements and letters that showed the monthly fee and the benefits 
available from the account.
Miss S had previously held a fee free account since 2000. Both parties agree the change 
happened following a request from Miss S to upgrade her account which took place in a 
branch meeting in 2017.
The sale took place 5 years ago and I wasnt there, so I cant know what was said. I can only 
look at the evidence available today.
Nationwide says it does not have a copy the application form that Miss S signed. So, I can 
only look at the statements she received and examples of update correspondence that was 
sent to her. Those statements and the correspondence do show and refer to the monthly 
fee, and identify the account as the Flex Plus with benefits.
I accept Miss Ss point that she may not have received some of the mail due to the different 
channels she chose to use and challenges she had at various times. However, statements 
were sent to her monthly over five years along with many other items of correspondence 
with information about the account. So, I think its more likely than not she received much of 
it.
As Miss S held responsible positions in her work life, I think its more likely than not that she 
would have understood the correspondence she received. And she could have closed the 
FPA at any time over the five years, but she didnt.
So, although I dont doubt her honest recollections, I think its more likely than not her 
memory is mistaken, and she chose to take out the FPA and she knew was paying a 
monthly fee for it.
There is no evidence to suggest that Nationwide recommended the FPA or advised her to 
take it out, so Nationwide was only required to provide Miss S with enough information for 
her to make an informed decision whether to buy it. 
And I think it did. I say this because Miss S was asking to upgrade her account, so she likely 
knew what the FPA offered. And I can see why she may have been interested in the product 
as the information she has sent us about her circumstances at the time suggests that she 
could have used the benefits.
So, although I know Miss S will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not that 
Nationwide didnt do anything wrong in this sale. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman