DRN-3620817
The complaint
Mr B complains about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (WIC) who asked him for 
a new excess payment for a further claim, under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B mobile phone was damaged, and he made a claim. The claim was accepted by WIC 
and his phone was repaired and returned to him. A few weeks later, Mr B noticed new issues 
with the phone and returned it to WIC, under the three-month warranty. 
WIC inspected the phone and found that there was new damage on the phone and so 
classed it as a new claim, which would generate a new excess payment of £75. Mr B 
complained as he said that there were issues with the phone that showed a sub-standard 
repair. And that he hadnt damaged the phone again. He sent in a photo of the phone that he 
took before sending it back to WIC. 
In its final response, WIC maintained that the damage was new and so attracted a new 
excess payment. It relied on its technicians photo which showed damage to the top of the 
phones screen, which it said Mr Bs photo obscured. So, it provided Mr B with his referral 
rights. 
Mr B referred a complaint to our service, which was considered by one of our investigators. 
He thought that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said that there was a distinct black 
mark at the top of the screen of the phone in the image taken by WIC. Yet the image taken 
by Mr B appeared to be dark towards the top of the screen. So, he agreed with WIC who 
said that Mr Bs image wasnt a clear angle making it impossible for the damage to be 
located. He concluded that WIC could fairly seek the excess payment. 
WIC accepted the view, Mr B did not and requested a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mr B, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.
Mr B said that he had to return his phone due to what he considered to be a sub-standard 
repair. He said that he experienced issues with the phone such as poor sound quality, slow 
touch screen and a poorly fitted replacement screen. He said that he took a photo of his 
phone before he returned it to WIC, and this showed that there hadnt been any new 
damage to his phone. 
WIC said that when it received the phone there was a black mark on the top left of
the LCD which it said was indicative that the phone had been knocked/impacted in some 
way. It provided photos in support, one that showed the black mark on the top corner of the 
screen. The other was the packaging that the phone had been in. It said that packaging 
showed no signs of damage and this meant that any damage in transit could be ruled out. 
WIC also said the angle in which Mr B took a photo of his phone, was such that it didnt 
clearly show the top left of the phone screen, so wouldnt have shown any damage. 
I have carefully considered both parties comments and I have looked at the photos both 
parties sent. I can clearly see damage on the top left of Mr Bs phone from the WIC photo. In 
comparison, the photo sent in by Mr B shows the front of the phone at an obscure angle. 
That is, the front of the phone is not clearly shown in the photo so the damage cant be seen. 
I wouldve expected Mr B to have clearly shown the entire screen, so that any doubt was 
removed that the screen had not been damaged before its return to WIC.  For this reason, I 
agree with WIC that as a result of the further damage their ability to assess and repair any 
faults or damage was compromised.
Consequently, I dont think WIC was unreasonable in requesting a further excess payment to 
address the issues with the phone. I understand that my findings are likely to be a 
disappointment to Mr B, but I cant reasonably and fairly ask WIC not to charge the excess 
payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman