DRN-2577770
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G say that their insurance broker, Diane S Malone (DSM), trading as Diamond 
Insurance Consultants, misadvised them by selling them a home contents insurance policy 
which did not pay out when they were burgled.
What happened
Mrs and Mr G bought a house together, which I will call house B. Mr G was unable to sell the 
house he already owned, which I will call house A. Mrs and Mr G contacted DSM for advice 
on insurance for the two properties. They told DSM that house A was their main home but 
that they would gradually move their possessions to house B and move in themselves in due 
course. DSM say that Mrs and Mr G asked for buildings only insurance for house B, as the 
contents would remain at house A for the time being. DSM advised Mrs and Mr G that they 
could get buildings and contents insurance for house A as their main residence but only 
holiday home cover for house B. Mrs and Mr G therefore took out buildings and contents 
insurance for house A with company A, and holiday home insurance for house B with 
company M. The holiday home insurance for house B also included some contents cover as 
a policy benefit.
Soon after, house B was burgled. Possessions worth a substantial amount were stolen. The 
value of the items stolen was significantly more than the contents insurance cover Mrs and 
Mr G had as part of their holiday home insurance for house B with company M. Mrs and Mr 
G made a claim for the stolen items with company A, as the contents insurance policy they 
held for house A covered belongings temporarily removed from house A.
Company A carried out an investigation, including taking a statement from Mr G. Company A 
declined the claim, saying that the stolen items had been moved to house B permanently 
and so were not covered by the policy.
Mr G complained to company A about its refusal to pay the claim. Company A did not uphold 
his complaint. Mr G then complained to this service about company A, and this complaint 
was looked into by one of our investigators, and then by an ombudsman. The investigator 
and ombudsman did not uphold this complaint, agreeing with company A that the items had 
not been temporarily removed from house A. The ombudsmans decision in that case was 
final, and I am only dealing with the complaint about the advice Mrs G and Mr G received 
from DSM.
Mrs and Mr G then complained to DSM about the advice that they had been given about 
their insurance. DSM said that the advice given to Mrs and Mr G was based on what they 
had told it, and they had not kept it informed when they moved their possessions from house 
A to house B.
Mrs and Mr G then complained to this service. One of our investigators looked into their 
complaint. The investigator did not uphold the complaint. The investigator said she felt that 
as DSM believed that all the contents were staying at house A, it had no reason to think that 
the cover offered would not meet Mrs and Mr Gs needs. She said that company A refused 
the claim because the contents had been permanently removed. She said DSM would not 
have expected the contents to be moved without Mrs G and Mr G telling it. The investigator 
therefore found that DSM had not misadvised Mrs and Mr G.
Mrs and Mr G did not agree with the investigators view, so their complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
Mrs and Mr G say that DSM did know that some of their possessions had been moved from 
house A to house B, as they asked it to reduce the amount of contents cover at house A. 
They also say that the valuables stolen were temporarily at house B, and had they not been 
stolen would have been moved back to house A. Mrs and Mr G say that at the time of the 
burglary their primary residence was house A.
Mrs and Mr G say they claimed for portable valuables under the All Risks section of their 
policy with company A, and that, by definition, these items are never permanent anywhere. 
Mrs and Mr G say they did move some furniture to house B, as people would if they were 
furnishing a holiday home, but they did not themselves move in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me the question here is not whether Mrs and Mr G had permanently moved to 
house B, but whether they had permanently moved the items claimed for into house B.
I have seen the insurance policy with company A. The definition of home is as follows -
The private residence shown in your schedule including its garages and outbuildings if they 
form part of the property.
The private residence shown in the schedule is house A.
The policy also says what is covered for loss and accidental damage 
Loss or damage including accidental damage to you or your familys contents while they are 
in the home or within the boundaries of the land belonging to the home or while temporarily 
removed anywhere in the world.
The terms All Risk and portable valuables are not used.
I have seen Mr Gs signed statement which he made as part of company As investigation 
into his claim. He says 
We moved into [house B] on [date]All the big itemswere moved over to [house B] on 
[date]. I would say 70% of the Contents from [house A] were moved to [house B] that 
dayOur jewellery and watches were all transferred to [house B] the week of [date]No 
jewellery or watches were left at [house A] as we were due to be living permanently at 
[house B] from then onAll of my wifes designer handbags and purses also came over to 
[house B] the week of [date]
All these dates were before the date of the burglary at house B.Nowhere in this statement does Mr G say that any of the items claimed for were temporarily 
at house B, or that it was intended to take them back to house A. 
It does appear that Mrs and Mr G did ask DSM to reduce the value of the contents cover at 
house A as they started to move their furniture to house B. However I have seen no 
suggestion that they also asked DSM to increase the contents cover at house B above the 
relatively small amount they had as a policy benefit from their buildings insurance policy with 
company M. 
On balance I do not think that DSM knew the extent or the value of the items that had been 
permanently moved into house B, as Mrs and Mr G had not told it. I can see that DSM 
believed that the cover originally arranged and later amended was appropriate. I cannot 
therefore say that DSM misadvised Mrs and Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman