DRN-2336613
The complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M took out PPI in 2002 during a meeting at the same time as he applied for a buy-to-let 
mortgage. The policy gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. He 
paid a monthly amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed so 
the complaint was passed to me.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and so issued a provisional decision (an 
extract from this is set out below and forms part of this final decision). I found that:
Halifax accepted it recommended the policy to Mr M, so it had to make sure it was 
suitable for him. I didnt think it was.
Mr M was taking out a buy-to-let mortgage so the bank was aware that the mortgage 
payments would be covered by rental income from tenants, rather than his own 
income. So I didnt think it was right, at the time of this mortgage sale, to recommend 
he take out a policy that protected his own income against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Mr Ms risk of not making mortgage payments would have been if the 
property wasnt tenanted, or if his tenants failed to pay their rent. But those situations 
were not covered by the PPI.
I anticipated the bank might argue that this was a standalone policy so Mr M could 
have used it to cover payments on his residential mortgage (if he had one), but there 
is no evidence that it looked into this, and its relevance and suitability given Mr Ms 
circumstances, before making its recommendation.
Overall, I thought it was most likely Mr M would not have bought PPI if he had been 
properly advised.
I asked both parties to respond with any comments or additional information by 12 
November 2020.
Mr M responded saying he agreed with the content of the decision. But he would like to 
understand why it is not relevant to his case that he was persuaded to take PPI in order to 
improve his chance of a successful mortgage application, which is clearly mis-selling.
Halifax did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
In response to Mr Ms query  I had carefully considered everything he told us about the 
sale. He said he was led to believe taking PPI would help his application. But the bank 
disputed this. Mr M says that the banks documentation will never support his testimony. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting. I accept its possible Mr M was led to believe 
having PPI would help his application. But equally, whilst that is Mr Ms honest recollection of 
the sale, I had to consider how long ago the sale was and how that might impact what he 
recalls. So whilst Mr Ms testimony was of course relevant to the case, I didnt need to make 
a finding on this point as it would not have impacted the outcome. This is because I was 
already planning to uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above in the extract from 
my provisional decision.
Neither party provided any other new evidence or information, so it follows there is no 
reason for me to change the findings or outcome set out in my provisional decision.
It follows I think Mr M lost out because of the problems with this sale.
Putting things right
Halifax must put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. It must:
pay Mr M the amount he paid each month for the PPI;
add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15 % a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on; and
if Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is I am upholding Mr Ms complaint and Halifax must put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman