DRN-3904181
The complaint
Mr I complains that Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212) have restricted his trading account 
with them and prevented him from withdrawals and accessing up to hundreds of thousands 
of pounds. 
Mr I is being represented with this complaint but for ease I have referred to all comments as 
those of Mr I.  
What happened
Mr I says he had an account with Trading 212 and when he attempted to withdraw 11,000 
euros of his money, he wasnt able to. 
Mr I says he logged this with Trading 212 and they confirmed payment would be sent. 
However, he says he never received the funds and that this account was subsequently 
restricted. 
Mr I complained to Trading 212. However, they said they didnt have any record of an active 
account with funds of several hundreds of thousands of pounds as Mr I had described. They 
also said they didnt have any record of a communication from them stating payment would 
be sent to him. 
Mr I brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. We initially looked into 
the issue and one of our investigators told Mr I that there was no evidence of an error 
regarding a stocks and shares account. Mr I then confirmed the issue was regarding a 
trading account. 
An investigator looked into the issue. He said that having weighed the evidence up, he didnt 
think that Trading 212 had done anything wrong or were acting unfairly. 
Mr I remained unhappy. He was now represented with his complaint, and maintained that 
hed provided enough evidence to show that he had funds of several hundreds of thousands 
of pounds in a Trading 212 account and was bring prevented from accessing them. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mr I has provided much information that he feels supports his complaint. However I must 
make it clear that it is my role to weigh up the evidence provided by both parties to decide 
which is more persuasive. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made 
my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what 
evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have happened.
Mr I maintains that he has shown a considerable trading account balance with Trading 212 
and that they have obstructed his withdrawals and subsequently restricted his account 
access. As part of his complaint, Mr I has provided a lot of information, directly and through 
his representative, which he says shows this. 
Included in this, Mr I has provided copies of bank statements showing transactions and 
deposits into a Trading 212 account. However, Trading 212 dont dispute that Mr I had an 
account with them or that he made deposits into the account. 
I have also been provided with an account trading summary from Mr I. Again, these show 
historical transactions, but do not show a current and active account balance, for the amount 
of money that Mr I is purporting. 
Mr I has also provided videos he has recorded himself which he says show an active 
balance for the amount he is claiming. They show the amount Mr I has suggested and show 
him logging in to an account. Trading 212 have responded to say that that the videos dont 
show any correct account information and dont show a real and active Trading 212 account. 
They have suggested that the videos are of a demo account and have provided evidence to 
show that Mr I has a Trading 212 demo account in his name. On balance, Im not persuaded 
that the videos show a real and active trading account and substantiate Mr Is claim of a 
significant balance. 
I have also been provided by Mr I with copies of communications with Trading 212, including 
a chat message from October 2021 where he says he was told that 11,000 euros would be 
sent to his bank from his Trading 212 account. Trading 212 have disputed the authenticity of 
this message. They have provided account statements for the account details Mr I has given 
and they dont show any balances at any time for an amount in excess of 11,000 euros. 
They have also stated that the associate named in the chat message no longer worked for 
the company by October 2021. 
Mr I has complained that prior to the account closure, he was restricted from placing trades 
and the account was limited to what the business term sell-only. Trading 212 have 
provided a copy of the relevant terms and conditions and have stated that they think they 
have applied them fairly and restricted the account in line with term 5.14 where it stated 
there is suspicion of unlawful activity or abusive trading activity. Considering the evidence 
provided, I think Trading 212 have acted fairly with the account restriction. 
In summary, I can only base my decision on the evidence provided to me and in this case, it 
is clearly conflictive. Reaching my decision, on what I think is more likely, I am not 
persuaded that Mr I has shown an active account balance for the amount he has stated or 
that Trading 212 have unfairly denied him access to his account and funds.  
My final decisionMy final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman