DRN-2122713
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a theft claim she 
and Mr M made under their joint home insurance policy following a burglary. 
What happened
Mrs M made a theft claim under the contents section of their policy to Ageas following a 
burglary which Mr M reported to the police in October 2019. 
Ageas instructed a loss adjuster to interview Mrs M about the burglary and the items she 
said were stolen. These included luxury designer jewellery, handbags, footwear and cash. 
The total value of Mrs Ms claim was just under £52,000. The policys sum insured limit was 
£50,000.
After obtaining a police report and concluding its investigation, Ageas told Mrs M it wouldnt 
meet their claim. Ageas said:
1.  The items reported stolen were not consistent with the list of items provided 
to the police and detailed in their report.
2.  There were inconsistences in the statements Mrs M gave to Ageas 
3.  Lack of evidence to support the ownership/possession of alleged stolen 
items at the time of the break in.
4.  The items being claimed for didnt fit in with their reported lifestyle.
Ageas applied an exclusion under the policy for fraud and declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Ageas said Mrs M as the lead policyholder had breached various conditions of the policy. It 
said that Mrs M supported their claim with a false document or statement by providing 
differing information in her statement and conversations with the loss adjuster. And it said 
shed failed to provide Ageas with information it requested by not supplying identifiable bank 
statements and PayPal transaction history to support their loss.
The loss adjuster asked Mrs M to submit a list of the stolen items to the police promptly. Mrs 
M provided the police with a list of items three months after the incident. It included 
additional items that werent included in the claim to Ageas. 
Ageas said that following an interview with the loss adjuster, it didnt believe Mrs M had 
made a true account of the losses she was claiming for. It found on social media that Mrs M 
had carried out unauthorised raffles for some of the items she was claiming for. And that she 
promoted online items she intended to sell at fairs. But when the loss adjuster asked her if 
shed sold anything on social media or attended fairs, Mrs M said no.
Mrs M said the raffles either had been called off, or the winner had requested cash instead. 
The loss adjuster made attempts to contact the third parties to verify Mrs Ms account. But 
they didnt receive any reply. 
Mrs M asked us to look at her complaint. She said she felt Ageas kept moving the goal posts 
in order to decline their claim. Mrs M said she answered the loss adjusters questions 
honestly. 
Our investigator found that Ageas had fairly rejected the claim by relying on the fraud 
exclusion because of inconsistent and false information provided by Mrs M to the loss 
adjuster. She said there was no dispute that Mrs M had bought and owned the items in 
question. The issue was whether the items were in Mrs Ms possession when she made the 
claim.
In summary, PayPal transactions showed Mrs M was in receipt of payments for raffle tickets, 
but she couldnt show the prizes (the items being claimed for) remained in her possession 
and that the raffles werent concluded  or that a cash payment had been made instead. Mrs 
M had denied the existence of the raffles and involvement in sales at fairs, but changed her 
account when provided with evidence by the loss adjuster. 
As Mrs M had provided proof of purchase, the investigator didnt think the statement The 
items being claimed for didnt fit in with their reported lifestyle was relevant. And she didnt 
think it relevant that Mrs M promoted selling items at a fair on behalf of her parents  as 
these items didnt form part of the claim. But based on the remaining information, she 
thought Ageas had acted reasonably. Ageas had shown that Mrs M hadnt provided a true 
account to the loss adjuster. When provided with evidence, Mrs M changed her account.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said she didnt sell the items online, it was by a raffle which is 
different. She says the raffles were neither illegal or unauthorised. She sent a list of the 
stolen items to the loss adjuster and the police. She said she realised further items were 
missing as she went through her home after the burglary. This is why there was a 
discrepancy between the items listed to the loss adjuster and the police. 
As Mrs M didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas can decline a claim if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. In this 
case, Ageas feel that, based on the evidence it has, its likely Mrs M did breach the fraud 
condition of the policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy in relation to this, 
and they say:
5. Fraud
If you or your family:
- makes a claim under your policy which is in any part false or exaggerated;
- supports a claim with a false document or statement;
- makes a claim for any loss or damage as a result of your deliberate act or if the loss 
or
damage was caused with your agreement or knowledge;
- have committed fraud under any other insurance policy; or
- makes an untrue statement, fails to provide us with information we or (broker name)
have requested, or knowingly provides inaccurate information about their 
circumstances
in order to obtain insurance cover.We may:
- declare the policy void (treating your policy as if it had never existed from the date 
the
fraudulent act was committed;
- not pay any claims which may or may not have been made on your policy;
- recover any previous claims paid under your policy;
- not return any premium; or
- cancel your policy.
We also may inform the police, other financial services and anti-fraud databases.
Given the above, Im satisfied that, if a policyholder has breached this condition, Ageas is 
entitled to decline any claim made and cancel the insurance policy if it wants to. It isnt for us 
to decide whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Instead, I need to decide if 
Ageas acted reasonably on raising the fraud condition and taking the action it has.
So Ive looked at what Ageas has taken into account, and whether I think this was fair.
Ive seen Ageass reply to Mrs Ms complaint. It gives the reasons why Ageas declined the
claim. And I think it was fair for Ageas to explore these, and to decline the claim when they 
felt the answers Mrs M provided werent satisfactory.
Mrs M completed a signed statement on 16 December 2019. The loss adjuster asked Mrs M 
if she attended fairs or sold items at fairs. He also asked Mrs M if she sold items on social 
media. Mrs M answered no to both questions. 
The loss adjuster had discovered several posts from a social media account belonging to 
Mrs M which showed that her answers were untrue. Posts showed Mrs Ms intention to 
attend fairs to sell items. There were also several posts going back to 2018 showing Mrs M 
raffling off luxury handbags which were included in their claim as being stolen. Mrs M 
confirmed to the loss adjuster that the social media account was hers. She said she did 
attend the fair, but was advertising items for sale on behalf of her parents. She confirmed the 
handbags listed for raffle on her account were the same as those included in the list of stolen 
items. 
Ageas say that the changes to Mrs Ms account mean that the information provided in the 
initial statement was untrue and therefore false. So Ageas considered that the untrue 
information was provided for benefit of financial gain. And those untruths required it to review 
all aspects of the claim with the same degree of doubt.
The loss adjuster attempted to contact the people who Mrs M indicated had either won the
raffles and requested cash instead, or did not complete the transaction. But they werent 
able to reach any of the alleged parties. So Ageas said it was unable to verify that the items 
were in Mrs Ms possession at the time of the loss. So it could only assume that the 
unauthorised raffles were concluded as planned and the items were added to the claim for 
financial gain.
Its not uncommon for a customer to realise further items are missing later on. So I dont 
think - in isolation - the fact that Mrs M added items to the list for the police was an indicator 
for concern. But I dont think it was unreasonable  putting all its concerns together  for 
Ageas to decide the fraud condition of the policy had been breached. And, having reached 
that conclusion, I think it was entitled to decline the claim. I understand Mrs M is very upset about the decision Ageas made. But Im satisfied the 
actions Ageas took when looking into the claim were fair. And I dont think it should have 
done anything differently  or that it should have reached a different conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman