DRN-3947445
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service hes received from Scottish Friendly Assurance Society 
Limited Scottish Friendly (Scottish Friendly). Specifically, that he wanted his policies collated 
under one reference and was sent incorrect annual bonus statements. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons: 
Mr G contacted Scottish Friendly in September 2022 and asked that his child bond 
policies and whole of life plans, were merged under one client reference number. A 
reasonable request that he says they agreed to. 
I can see that this wasnt actioned when Scottish Friendly said it would, as one of the 
bonds couldnt be located. This wasnt resolved until the end of that month. 
Further issues were then encountered by Mr G, when bonus notices were sent with 
the previous client references. Scottish Friendly say this is because they were 
generated prior to the change being fully implemented. Scottish Friendly have also 
acknowledged that the policy owner and life assured were incorrectly listed. 
Bonus notices were then reissued in October 2022, but I can see these still included 
the previous references. I can see this will have been very frustrating for Mr G. 
Scottish Friendly have shown that all notices were processed by them. If Mr G didnt 
receive them all, I am satisfied that will be an external fault and I cant hold Scottish 
Friendly responsible for that. 
Scottish Friendly have offered Mr G £50 for the impact these errors had on him. I 
think that is fair in the circumstances. I know that Mr G has said he spent a lot of time 
on the phone trying to resolve the matter and even resorted to hand delivering a 
letter to their office detailing the matter. However, I believe the offer compensates   
Mr G for the impact the errors had and the inconvenience of the time spent to sort it 
out. I am glad to see that Scottish Friendly have said that bonus notices will be sent 
next year with the correct details. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Gs frustration, I think the offer already made 
by Scottish Friendly is sufficient and fair in the circumstances, considering the impact on    
Mr G. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that the offer already made by Scottish 
Friendly Assurance Society limited of £50 to put things right for Mr G, is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. They should pay £50 to Mr G if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman