DRN-1223113
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that her storm damage claim has been declined by Ageas Insurance 
Limited under her home insurance policy.
Ms H was represented by her brokers in negotiations with Ageas but Ill refer to Ms H for the 
purposes of this decision.
What happened
Ms H noticed loose tiles on her roof, so she made a claim. Ageas considered the claim but 
said its policy definition of storm (55mph wind speeds) hadnt been reached so it declined to 
pay for any damage. Ms H brought her claim to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the three points this service review to 
consider whether or not a storm had occurred had all been met. She said a storm incident 
had occurred and caused the damage regardless of the Ageas policy definition. Our 
investigator also felt the damage was an accident in line with the policy definition of 
accidental damage too.
Ageas didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Ageas said the policy required the wind speed to be in excess of 55mph before it would 
consider any claim to be caused by storm conditions. I accept that this is what the policy 
wording states. So, Ageas feel the answer to question one is no. Records show that wind 
speeds around the time of the damage were as high as 51mph. So, I think the answer to 
question one is yes. I dont think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to insist the 55mph limit 
needs to be reached for damage to be considered at storm levels. I think 55mph is above 
what this service and the wider insurance industry would consider fair and reasonable. I 
think at 51mph insurers should be treating the damage as if it had been caused by a storm.
In relation to question two I think tiles coming loose on a roof that is recorded as well 
maintained is consistent with storm damage. So, the answer is yes.
Turning to question three Ms Hs contractor said the roof was in good condition. He also said 
the high winds were the only logical reason for the tiles to come off. This information is the 
best evidence on the file and is therefore persuasive. So, the answer to question three is 
yes.
Putting things right
I think Ageas acted unreasonably when it declined to deal with Ms Hs claim, and it needs to 
pay her storm damage repair costs.
My final decision
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay Ms Hs storm damage repair costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman