DRN-1152223
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a credit card with Barclays in 2003. At the same time, he bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover his repayments for up to 12 months at a time if he couldnt 
work. It also provided life cover for the balance.
Mr B says he wasnt given enough information about the cover and that he didnt need it.
The adjudicator thought that Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive come to this decision.
Mr B selected the PPI when he completed an application form for a credit card. The 
application form made it clear that he had a choice about it. He chose to take it by placing a 
tick in a box and he signed the form. He could have ticked a different box to say he didnt 
want it.
Mr B doesnt suggest he didnt know hed bought the PPI and Im satisfied Mr B bought the 
PPI knowing he had a choice about it.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to take reasonable steps to check if it was 
right for him. And it had to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. 
Mr B originally told us he had six months full sick pay. He later told us he had more than 
this. Mr B worked for a well-known retail company. Its sick pay is usually considerably less 
than Mr B has suggested he would have been entitled to, so I cant be sure about Mr Bs evidence here. But even if he did have the sick pay he claims, the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to this and potentially for longer than his full sick pay would have lasted. 
Mr B says he had considerable savings. But the amount hes told us he had only equated to 
about two months salary. If Mr B wasnt working I think hed have had other expenses to 
cover as well as his card repayments, and I dont think his savings would have lasted long.
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr B. The cost was 
comparable to other similar policies on the market around the same time. And it couldve 
been cancelled at any time without penalty
So I dont think Mr B lost out because of anything Barclays did wrong. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint so it follows that Barclays Bank plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman