DRN-4120778
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs C have complained about their home insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc regarding 
a claim thy made in 2018 for damage caused by a water leak.
Mr S has dealt mainly with the claim and complaint. For ease of refence, Ill mainly refer to 
him during the body of my decision. AXA uses various companies to act on its behalf in 
handling the claim. AXA is liable for the actions of those it instructs. Ill only refer to AXA by 
name in this decision.
What happened
Mr S made a claim in 2018 following a leak. The claim was initially declined by AXA, with a 
complaint made to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Ombudsman colleague 
considered the complaint and issued a decision in May 2020 directing AXA to settle the 
claim and pay compensation. AXA, in June 2020 appointed experts with strip-out work taking 
place between November 2020 and March 2021. A scope of works was completed and the 
work put to tender in May 2021. The family, living elsewhere since November 2020, returned 
home in August 2022.
In November 2022 Mr S, having first referred to AXA, made a further complaint to this 
service. He felt AXA had delayed the progress of the claim, particularly in respect of the 
kitchen  AXA hadnt answered this issue. He wanted AXA to pay him for reinstating his 
garden  he had a quote for £10,800 for some work, with other costs pending but AXA had 
only offered £500. Mr S had also asked AXA for costs incurred for fuel for extra car journeys 
necessary due to the family living elsewhere between November 2020 and August 2022  
AXA said this type of cost wasnt covered.
Our Investigator asked AXA if we could consider the delay issue, which it agreed to. Our 
Investigator, considering the claim since our previous decision, felt that whilst it had been 
prolonged it had not been unreasonably delayed by AXA. She felt the £500 offered for the 
garden was fair. She felt AXA should be paying fuel costs. She noted some advice from 
AXAs loss adjuster, recommending payment in this respect of £600. She felt that was fair so 
said AXA should pay it.
AXA said it agreed with the view. Mr S said AXA had been shown proof his kitchen could not 
be reinstated and it had initially refused to include costs for the downstairs cloakroom, both 
of which caused delays. With AXA causing others besides. He said the garden was only 
overgrown due to the leak which necessitated living away from home  if AXA had told him 
earlier it wouldnt assist him much with this, hed have employed a gardener and challenged 
it for the costs later. He said the sum for fuel costs could justifiably be higher. His complaint 
was referred for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delay
I appreciate that, for Mr S, this claim took a very long time to conclude. But I dont think there 
were any unreasonable delays caused by AXA after our previous decision. I note AXA took 
some time, following our last decision, to decide its course of action but once that was 
decided a loss adjuster was appointed straightaway, with reasonable claim considerations 
resulting which allowed for strip-out to commence in November 2020. A full scope and then 
tenders could not be organised until after that phase was complete. Ultimately the parties 
agreed to settle the claim in cash and final sums were agreed in October 2021. I appreciate 
this is a high-level summary of activity  but within those phases I cant see anything which 
makes me think AXA caused overall delays to the claim.
Ive also carefully considered Mr Ss points about the kitchen and downstairs cloakroom. 
Considering the cloakroom first, I dont see any unreasonable delay caused by AXA here. 
Seemingly when strip-out work was being agreed in 2020, at which time Mr S was 
represented by loss assessors, AXA had some concerns about the extent of work necessary 
in this room. But the loss assessors presented further evidence to AXA and, following further 
claim negotiations, when it came time to settle the claim, the later discussions about what 
AXA would pay for reinstatement did not debate costs regarding the cloakroom at all. 
I havent seen that any delays were caused by AXA challenging the cloakroom costs and it 
wasnt unreasonable for it to have done so.
I know Mr S sent AXA proof in early 2021 to show the kitchen could not be refitted and 
AXAs final settlement, including kitchen replacement costs was not issued until 
October 2021. Given this detail alone, I can see why Mr S thinks AXA should have agreed 
the kitchen replacement sooner. But I see that AXA, having considered this evidence, 
wanted to review the units once they were returned from storage. That was a reasonable 
response from it. That occurred in July 2021, with the claim discussions regarding costs for 
replacement moving on after. The final settlement sum was agreed in October 2021 but 
hadnt increased markedly with agreement for the kitchen replacement. Im not persuaded 
this caused an overall delay to the claim.
Garden
Mr S presented a quote for £10,800 for clearing three flower beds and weeding the drive. 
Hes noted that included work to remove dead trees and that there will be additional costs for 
treating the lawn. Along with clearing and reinstating the greenhouse and repairing 
drainpipes overgrown with moss.
I appreciate it was difficult for Mr S to keep up with the garden and exterior maintenance 
whilst he lived elsewhere. And if he found that difficult and inconvenient to do, thats 
unfortunate, but its quite usual for a loss which results in a claim, with its necessary 
reinstatement work, to create difficulties and inconvenience. They arent covered by the 
policy. I see that here the family lived in a flat which was quite close to their home. 
I appreciate that Mr S and Mrs C worked and had young children to care for  making 
working on the garden in the light summer evenings difficult. I think though they could still 
have done more to maintain the garden and exterior of their home. 
I see Mr S has said that he told AXA he was having difficulty maintaining his home garden, 
but it didnt reply to him on this point. Hes said had it let him know it would not assist him 
with this later, hed have obtained a gardener  its silence caused him to think it would help. 
I think AXA has agreed to help. Although not to the extent which Mr S thinks is due, but it 
never promised to cover all/any costs. I note AXA has offered £500 towards the cost for 
reinstating the garden. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances, so Ill require AXA to 
pay it. 
FuelAXAs response to Mr S on this issue was, I think, a little unreasonable. It said this was just a 
consequential loss not covered by the policy. But AXAs policy offers cover of the cost of 
alternative accommodation, and its not unusual for additional fuel costs to be viewed in that 
light  a cost of living elsewhere. I note the loss adjuster considered detail Mr S had provided 
to it about his additional usage and thought £600 would be fair recompense. I note Mr S has 
said this could be more as there were more journeys. But I think Mr S had a fair chance to 
put forward detail of the extra journeys he took, with the detail he had provided having been 
considered by AXAs loss adjuster. I bear in mind that Mr S explained that journeys they 
could walk from home  such as to nursery and to visit family, had to be taken in the car 
whilst living in the flat. I note the flat was not far from the home, such that the usual car 
journeys would not have been much further than normal. And it is only the extra 
distance/costs that I could reasonably hold AXA liable for. I think £600 is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Mr S and Mrs C:
£500 for the garden.
£600 for additional fuel.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman