DRN-2375341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that they were mis-sold an Advance Account (AA) in September 
2013 by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
again. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicators for these reasons.
Mr and Mrs M are clear that their complaint is that they say they were told they had to take 
out a fee-paying packaged bank account, the AA, in order to get a mortgage with HSBC.
Mr and Mrs M had bank accounts including a packaged bank account with other banks 
before they took out the AA. Mortgages were widely advertised at the time by many banks 
and financial institutions. So, I think its more likely than not that they were aware they could 
get a mortgage with or without taking out a bank account of any type from many suppliers.
So, if Mr and Mrs M had been offered a mortgage with HSBC with terms and conditions they 
didnt like I think they would have declined it and sought their lending from elsewhere.
HSBC has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with it just after 
starting the AA and made a very substantial saving on the arrangement fee. HSBC also has 
a record that Mr and Mrs M said they had chosen to take out the AA because of the 
mortgage deal.
So, although I dont doubt their honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that 
HSBC told Mr and Mrs M that the AA had a benefit of a substantially reduced arrangement 
fee and they chose to transfer their packaged bank account from another bank to HSBC to 
obtain that benefit.
On this basis, I dont think its fair or reasonable to uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman