DRN-2822095
The complaint
X is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim under his commercial 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 X was involved in a low speed, low impact incident with another road using 
vehicle which was in front of him at a set of traffic lights. The third-party subsequently 
submitted a claim for damage they say was caused by the impact. 
X doesnt deny there was an impact. However, he refutes the allegation that there was any 
damage caused by the impact and he says the third party has submitted a fraudulent claim. 
He says AXA didnt investigate the incident, it never kept him informed, it didnt act in his 
interests and it ignored the evidence hed provided. 
AXA says it made the decision to deal with this claim on the best possible terms to keep the 
costs of the claim from rising significantly, and it didnt act negligently. It admitted to not 
keeping X informed and it offered X £200 in compensation.  
X was very unhappy with this and he referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked at Xs complaint and advised that based on the evidence provided, AXA hadnt done 
anything wrong
But X remains unhappy, and he has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I must reassure X that I thoroughly understand how strongly he feels about this
matter. I understand why he feels this was a fraudulent claim and I appreciate how infuriating 
and wrong X believes the settlement of the third partys claim is.
However, it is AXA which holds the risk here, on legal costs (both its own and the other
drivers), should the matter go to court and on the risk that the third party might have got a
higher award, by taking it to court. X holds none of that risk at all, because under his
motor policy, AXA indemnifies him against any claim. Xs risk is merely potentially having his 
no claims discount (NCD) reduced and having a fault claim on his insurance record. Thus, in 
all likelihood increasing his motor insurance premiums going forward.
In almost all motor insurance policies, theres a clause which allows the insurer to takeover, 
defend or settle any claim against its policyholder as it thinks fit. And AXAs policy is no 
different. It says, if we wish, we can take over and manage in your name, or the name of the 
person claiming, the defence, prosecution or settlement of any claim for our own benefit. We 
will be allowed complete control of any proceedings and settlement of any claim(s). When 
anyone buys a policy, they are agreeing to this term. This clause also doesnt permit a 
policyholder to block AXAs ability to settle claims as it thinks fit. Consent for it to do so is 
given by the policyholder when they take out the insurance policy.
My role and that of this service isnt to decide whether this other drivers claim was 
fraudulent, or indeed to decide whose fault the accident was. Thats a matter for a court of 
law to decide and this service isnt a court of law, its an informal dispute resolution service 
for disputes between consumers and financial products providers. Also, this service is 
unable to punish or fine insurers as we are not the regulators, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is. So, my role here is to see if AXA applied this term to the claim 
circumstances fairly and reasonably.
X says the photographs he provided clearly show this was a case of betterment or at least a 
case that needed proper validation and investigation. He says if AXA had taken a non-
negligent approach and actually reviewed the evidence in advance of accepting liability, it 
wouldve been clear this was an exaggerated claim. 
X says he was deprived of that justice because his own insurer, whose duty of care he says 
is to act diligently and in his best interests ignored the evidence. He says AXA simply 
admitted to completely false and very extensive liability without keeping him informed. He 
says liability remains in dispute in relation to the third parties allegations and the very 
extensive and unproven fraudulent damages being claimed for. He states there is absolutely 
no liability at all on his part for what was being claimed, but this was not contested because 
AXA failed to review its own partys evidence in a timely manner. X says if AXA had done so 
it would have given it an easy opportunity to contest liability with confidence and without risk 
of escalating fees and involving solicitors.
So that it could deal with this claim, AXA sought a statement from both parties. In the 
statement made by X it says I was behind a Black vehicle waiting at traffic lights. Traffic 
lights went to green and vehicle in front appeared to be struggling to move forward and 
appeared to be struggling to disengage handbrake and engage clutch. My vehicle was 
already engaged and half on the clutch ready to move forward. After a few seconds it 
appeared as though the vehicle in front was pulling away but then it didn't and the very 
slightest of contact was made between my vehicle and the vehicle in front.
I cannot be 100% sure whether I had crept forward or the vehicle in front had rolled 
backwards or a combination of both. The contact was very minor but after waiting for the 
lights to change again we both pulled around the corner to assess the situation. There was 
zero damage to my vehicle, and I could not ascertain any fresh damage to their vehicle.
Upon closer inspection there appeared to be several noticeable scuffs, scrapes and dents to 
the other vehicle well above the line of contact that would have been made between us all 
across their boot area indicating several separate incidents of some nature to the other 
vehicle in the past. No damage could be pointed out by the other party, or seen by me, in 
relation to the area of contact that was made in this case, which was dead centre in the 
middle and low down on their bumper.
Ive looked at the claims notes that AXA has sent us from its system. The incident was 
reported almost immediately by X, and the claim closed after four months as there was 
nothing happening on it. However, in March 2020, the third party did submit a claim, and 
because of Xs concerns about the incident AXA asked the third party to provide an 
engineers report, coloured images of the damage, an estimate and a full Invoice with parts 
and labour breakdown.But nothing was ever received from the third-party insurer. Then in July 2020 proceedings 
were issued by the third-party insurer. So, the decision that AXA had to make was whether, 
based on this evidence it could refute the claim strongly enough that if the matter were to go 
to court, it would win. And AXA was of the view, based on the evidence it had at that time 
that it was more likely it would lose. 
I appreciate what X says about this. He says that AXA shouldve done more, and it just 
settled without any consideration to him, its customer. I know he doesnt think AXA 
investigated the incident, ignored his evidence and didnt act in his interest.  He quotes 
relevant legislation and says that insurers should be liable when they fail to follow correct 
procedure.
 
But AXA like all other motor insurers is required to adhere to varying pre-action protocols to 
sensibly settle cases without wasting the courts time in situations where there is no 
reasonable chance of success. Failure to do this increases the amount of legal costs a 
successful party could claim from the unsuccessful party. And as I explained above only 
AXA was at risk of these types of costs too, not X. In short, the statement from X says I 
cannot be 100% sure whether I had crept forward or the vehicle in front had rolled 
backwards or a combination of both and based on this along with the facts of the case and 
the evidence provided I can see why AXA made the decision it did. In a best-case scenario 
this mightve been agreed as a 50/50 split liability case, but AXA would still have had an 
outlay, and X would still have been deemed to be at fault (albeit a shared fault) for the 
incident. So, I dont agree that AXA didnt follow the correct procedure. It requested further 
information, and when this wasnt forthcoming it made a decision based on the evidence it 
had available. And based on what Ive seen theres nothing to show me that AXA made the 
wrong decision to settle the third-party claim.
I sympathise with X, as hes clearly aggrieved by what happened and he clearly doesnt 
agree with the outcome. But as Ive said above its not my role nor the role of this service to 
decide if a claim was fraudulent or to decide who was at fault. My role is solely to assess if 
AXA adhered to the terms of its policy in dealing with this matter. And I consider it did, so I 
wont be asking AXA to do anything more. 
Ive also considered the service provided by AXA. X says he wasnt kept informed about the 
progress of the claim nor about key decisions. AXA has acknowledged this, said it was 
unacceptable and its apologised. AXA has offered £200 in compensation for its failings 
which I agree is a fair and reasonable amount for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman