DRN-1724847
The complaint
Ms W has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy that it 
avoided her motor insurance policy (treated it as if it never existed).  
What happened
Ms W had an insurance policy with a provisional driving licence and when she passed her 
test she contacted her broker to tell them. As the premium increased significantly Ms W 
cancelled the policy and looked to take out another policy online with Skyfire through the 
same broker. 
Ms W told Skyfire she had a full licence for over a year at that time when in fact she had only 
just passed her test. And when Skyfire requested a copy of her licence Ms W made it aware 
that she had made a mistake. Skyfire highlighted that its questions were clear and pointed 
out that Ms W had undertaken a number of quotations at that time and thought Ms W had 
done this deliberately in order to gain cheaper insurance. And so it avoided her policy and 
kept some of the premium shed already paid. Skyfire considered this to be a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy. 
Ms W was unhappy about this. She says shed made an honest mistake and was just 
excited about obtaining her full driving licence and feels that the policy cancellation is too 
harsh a penalty. So she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He was of the 
view that Skyfire had acted fairly as he agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation 
and that it was deliberate or reckless. He explained the approach this service generally takes 
and explained that as Ms W had made a misrepresentation that we would review this in line 
with the relevant act, The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). And having done so he thought Skyfire was allowed to avoid the policy. 
Ms W maintained that she made an innocent mistake and as she now needs to disclose the 
policy cancellation her current premium is unaffordable. So the matter has been passed to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for Ms W, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it and can cancel it back to the beginning (treated it as if it didnt exist). If the qualifying 
misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have charged a higher premium if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it can look to do this.  
Skyfire thinks Ms W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she stated in her application that she had a years full driving licence when in fact she had 
just passed her test. And Ive looked at the question she was asked when she completed the 
application and agree she failed to take reasonable care. And I think she was asked a clear 
question through the comparison site.
Ms W said she answered the question incorrectly as she was excited as she had just passed 
her test and was rushing as it was late at night. But Skyfire has provided a number of 
quotations that Ms W undertook when she looked to take out cover. These showed that she 
had just passed her test in most of the quotations, but this varied in the last three quotes 
when Ms W said she had her driving licence for a year, when she hadnt. 
Indeed Ms W shouldve been aware of this as the quotation which she took was about £400 
less than the quotes when she input the correct details. As such I cant say Skyfire has acted 
unreasonably in concluding that Ms W was reckless or deliberate in answering this question, 
which allows it to avoid the policy. Ultimately, Im satisfied that Ms W failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she said she had held her licence for 
a year. 
Skyfire has provided evidence which shows that if Ms W had not made this 
misrepresentation it would have at least charged her a higher premium. This means Im 
satisfied Ms Ws misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
I also think Ms Ws misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This is 
because I think Ms W must have realised that she had input the number of years she had 
held her licence incorrectly. She knew from the time of having to cancel her last policy that 
the premium was significantly higher now that she had passed her test. And it was clear from 
the quotations that her premium was significantly less when she said she had her policy for a 
year when she hadnt. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Skyfire was entitled to avoid Ms Ws policy in accordance with 
CIDRA which means that  in effect  her policy never existed. And  as CIDRA reflects our 
long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Skyfire to rely on it to 
avoid Ms Ws policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. I know Ms W maintains she didnt do this deliberately, but I cant say that Skyfire has acted 
unreasonably. I say this as the act talks about deliberate or reckless and I cant say that she 
wasnt, at the very least, reckless. Plus, Ms W had the opportunity to make contact when she 
received her policy documentation to put things right, but she didnt. And I note Ms W used 
two different addresses when she was looking to compare quotes, so it is difficult to argue 
that she didnt know what she was doing.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman