DRN-4332312
The complaint
Ms R complains HSBC Bank UK Plc stopped a payment she was trying to make for fraud 
checks and then cancelled it altogether. 
What happened
Ms R tried to make a payment for £625 which HSBCs fraud prevention measures blocked.
 
Ms R received a text message asking her to contact HSBC, which she did. Ms R was 
unhappy with the number of questions she was asked during this call and that following the 
call HSBC decided to cancel the payment and restrict her account. 
HSBC said they hadnt done anything wrong. They said Ms R had hung up before their 
agent had completed asking the questions required to allow the payment to go ahead. So 
they cancelled the payment and restricted her account for safety reasons. 
Ms R wasnt happy with this response, so referred her complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Ms Rs concerns. He said, having listened to the call, he was 
satisfied Ms R had ended the call before the security procedure had been completed and 
HSBC had followed their own process by then cancelling the payment and restricting her 
account. 
Ms R remained unhappy and as she didnt agree HSBC had acted appropriately, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the account set out the circumstances in which HSBC can 
refuse to carry out an instruction from their customer. This includes where HSBC have 
concerns that the transaction might be fraudulent or to protect their customer or themselves 
from a crime. 
Ms Rs payment flagged on HSBCs fraud prevention system on 30 December 2022 and 
they sent a text message to Ms R asking her to call them, which she did. Ive listened to this 
call  which was about ten minutes in length. Ms R was unhappy with the questions being 
asked and how long the call was taking. In the end, Ms R said do whatever you want and 
ended the call. That was Ms Rs choice, but Im satisfied this agent was correctly following 
the banks security procedure. I understand why Ms R was keen for the call to be as quick as 
possible since she was looking after a young relative at the time and shed been waiting for 
the call to be answered for a long time. But Im afraid I dont agree with Ms R that the agent 
was prolonging the call unnecessarily. 
Because Ms R didnt finish answering HSBCs questions, her payment was cancelled and 
her account was restricted. I dont think this was unreasonable given that HSBC had 
concerns about her payment in the first instance, and then wasnt able to complete their 
security process when they spoke to her. Ms R called back the following day, after finding 
her account had been restricted and her account was reinstated that day. So I dont think 
HSBC did anything wrong, but the restrictions were removed within a day anyway. 
Ms R was also unhappy that HSBC said they had tried to call her before sending the text 
message but she said shed received no missed calls from them. It seems Ms R has been 
told HSBC did attempt to call her on 30 December 2022, before sending the text message  
but this wasnt correct. Weve since clarified with HSBC and theyve confirmed no call was 
made before the text message was sent to Ms R. I understand why Ms R thinks they 
shouldve called her but HSBC also confirmed there was no requirement under their process 
to call before sending the text message  so I dont think theyve made a mistake. And, even 
if I thought HSBC should have called Ms R, I dont think this changes the outcome of Ms Rs 
complaint - since HSBC would still have been entitled to block her account if she failed to 
answer their security questions. 
Overall Im satisfied HSBC treated Ms R fairly.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman