DRN-2959940
The complaint
Mr S has complained Santander Cards UK Limited has done little to help his claim that a 
dress sold to him was misrepresented. He made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
Mr S is represented in his claim by his wife, Mrs S, whos a secondary cardholder on the 
credit card account.
What happened
Mrs S bought her daughter (who Ill call E) a prom dress in December 2019. She paid a 
deposit of £212.50 on her Santander credit card. A month later she paid the remaining 
£212.50 and later paid for the hem to be taken up.
At the time of purchase, Mrs S understood the dress was a 2020 addition to the boutiques 
collection. This was obviously important to E who was, unsurprisingly, hoping that her dress 
would be unique at prom. Because of Covid, Es prom was re-scheduled to October 2020.
E subsequently found she knew someone else who was planning to wear an identical dress 
and was very upset by this. Mrs S believed the dress had been misrepresented to them. 
Shed not known that the same dress had been part of the 2019 collection, as well as in 
2020. She felt if shed been aware of this, they may well have bought an alternative dress 
and avoided this problem. Mrs S  and E  had now bought an expensive prom dress; 
paying more than the original budget. E felt the dress was now unwearable.
Mrs S took her complaint to Santander. They didnt believe there was any misrepresentation. 
Mr S, on his familys behalf, brought the complaint to our service.
Santander also explained to us they didnt believe there was enough evidence to show there 
was a proper link between the person who bought the dress  the debtor, officially Mr S as 
the primary cardholder  and the supplier of the dress.
Our investigator agreed with this interpretation of section 75. He told Mrs S he couldnt ask 
Santander to do anything further.
Mrs S had been waiting a while for her complaint to be resolved and was concerned at this 
outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider Mr Ss complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mrs S used her 
Santander credit card to pay for her daughters prom dress.
However one key requirement to allow consideration of a section 75 claim is that there 
needs to be an effective relationship between the supplier of the goods and the person who 
had the relationship with the creditor. This is often referred to as the debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. 
Santander queried whether this applied in this case as Mrs S  the secondary cardholder  
paid for the dress. Our investigator then felt that as the invoice of the dress was in Es name 
the supply was to her whilst the payment was made by Mrs S.
Firstly I should clarify that obviously Mrs S, as a secondary cardholder, does have some 
rights under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. However this turns on who the 
contracting party is when an agreement is being made for the supply of goods and services. 
Theres no doubt that the account and debt is in Mr Ss name and Mrs S uses a credit card 
on his account with his authority. However  although this is not completely cut and dried  
this generally means that Mr S should be the contracting party. 
At no stage has anyone ever intimated that Mr S was present when E tried on the dress and 
it was purchased. I dont believe therefore that I can consider Mr Ss complaint any further as 
he was not the contracting party when the dress was purchased. He wasnt party to the 
negotiations; the price being paid  whether that was discounted or not  or knew what was 
said at the time of purchase that Mrs S believes amounted to misrepresentation.
I can only apologise that this wasnt made clearer to Mrs S at the start of her complaints 
process both with Santander and our service. I know Mrs S has been concerned that 
Santander werent clear with her about why they wouldnt uphold her complaint. Its true 
theyve raised both objections  that there was no misrepresentation or any appropriate 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. When I consider any complaint about a section 75 
claim, I am obliged to review whether theres a d-c-s relationship first. I appreciate if Mrs S 
had known about this earlier, she may never have ended up bringing her complaint to our 
service.
Itll be no consolation to Mrs S but in any case I dont believe any misrepresentation had the 
impact Mrs S believes. I dont believe it matters whether the dress belonged to the 2019 
collection and was continued into the 2020 collection because it was a best seller. These 
aspects wouldnt have been a concern on their own if no-one else ended up with the same 
dress. And its that outcome thats important here. 
I absolutely can see why E would be so upset and concerned when finding out five months 
later that someone else was wearing the same dress. But I dont believe that anything the 
shop owner said about the dress Mrs S was buying would have constituted a guarantee that 
this couldnt have happened.  
Unfortunately I have no leeway under section 75 to ask Santander to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Santander Cards UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman