DRN-2619937
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc when he 
queried a transaction on his account.  He would like to be adequately compensated for the 
distress and inconvenience caused as a result.
What happened
Mr H complained to NatWest about a transaction which he saw on his account on 2nd 
September 2020. He said he didnt recognise the payment and didnt recall making it. 
Initially, Mr H was told that the payment had been pending since 14th August  which was 
the date it was made and that if it was not claimed within five days, it would be returned to 
him. He was then told he would have to wait for the payment to go through before anything 
could be done about it.
NatWest also told Mr H that if he disputed the payment, he needed to raise this with his 
fraud team  but that the merchant was someone Mr H had used previously on several 
occasions.
In its final response to Mr H, it offered £10 as a gesture of goodwill in Mr H being given 
conflicting information.
Mr H then brought his complaint to this service where our investigator looked into matters for 
him.  Mr H told us that he didnt feel his money was safe with NatWest and wanted to move 
his account elsewhere.  He also said he should be compensated for the inconvenience 
NatWest had caused  and he wanted more than a token gesture of £10.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask NatWest to do anymore so Mr H made further 
detailed submissions.  In summary, he said the following:
- he was unhappy with the delays in dealing with his complaint
- he didnt recall authorising the payment
- he questioned NatWests honesty
- he thought his complaint should have been sent to the fraud team automatically
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has provided a very detailed view in this case already.  So, I wont repeat 
what has already been said in my decision  but that doesnt mean I havent considered all 
the comments made by both Mr H and NatWest.
I should say from the outset, that I wont be asking NatWest to do anymore here either.
It has been identified that the disputed payment was a contactless payment made to a 
supermarket  S.  Because it is contactless, NatWest say the name of the merchant does 
not appear until it claims the funds. This is what happened in Mr Hs case.
Mr H was given conflicting information during a webchat  and for this it apologised and 
offered the £10 as a gesture of goodwill.  It didnt think it needed to increase on this offer.
Im pleased to see NatWest acknowledged its mistakes.  But I cant say it was unfair or 
unreasonable for it to ask Mr H to report the transaction to the fraud team if he denied 
authorising it.  I can see Mr H is yet to do this  and that may be because he now recalls 
making it.  If that isnt the case, then I would encourage him to contact the relevant team.  
And if Mr H does not feel he has any confidence left in NatWest, then he is able to move his 
account elsewhere in the meantime.
As for the delays in this service dealing with Mr Hs complaint  well, that isnt something I 
can fairly hold NatWest responsible for, so I wont be asking it to increase its offer of 
compensation in that regard.
Finally, I have seen nothing which makes me fairly and reasonably question the honesty of 
NatWest or its employees whilst it dealt with Mr Hs complaint.
So, Im afraid I think the offer of £10 was a fair one in the circumstances and fairly reflects 
the poor service Mr H received when he first raised this query.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman