DRN-3646528
The complaint
Mr D complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFUM) mishandled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ds motor insurance policy renewed, and additional wording was input into the policy 
schedule which wasnt in his previous policy. The wording in question said:
Carriage of explosives, more than 2,000 shotgun cartridges or bullets at 
any one time, chemicals or gases excluded
Mr D queried this, and his policy then renewed a couple of time with the same wording, 
which Mr D wasnt happy about, so he complained. He said it meant he couldnt carry petrol 
or camping gas and so hed adjusted what he put in his car. Mr D asked NFUM to change 
the wording to reflect what was in the policys terms and conditions as he felt the schedule 
overrides the policys terms and conditions. 
NFUM reviewed the complaint and issued two final response letters. Essentially, they didnt 
agree the wording in the schedule needed changing as it was just a summary of what was in 
the policy terms and conditions. They did identify some errors when Mr D had been querying 
this term and in total offered £200 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr D didnt agree with NFUMs responses and referred his complaint here. He said the 
wording as it was meant that even air could be deemed a gas and so he wouldnt be 
covered. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. They found 
the policy terms and conditions were clear as to what was covered and didnt think the 
summary in the policy schedule overrode the terms and conditions. They also thought the 
compensation offered by NFUM was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr D didnt 
agree, he said if he had another amendment on his policy it would be recorded on the 
schedule and so he said what is in the policy schedule overrides the policy terms and 
conditions. 
As Mr D didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy schedules for Mr Ds policies say:
This schedule, Certificate of Motor Insurance and Policy booklet are to 
be read together as one contract.
Within the policy schedule Mr D has multiple vehicles, within the section which lists the 
details about each vehicle it says:  
Carriage of explosives, more than 2,000 shotgun cartridges or bullets at 
any one time, chemicals or gases excluded
The policy terms and conditions (booklet) under the general exceptions section says:
ii) Explosives
WE will not pay for any claim if YOUR CAR or TRAILER is being used 
for the transportation of high explosives such as nitro glycerine, 
dynamite or any other similar explosive, or more than 2,000 shotgun 
cartridges or bullets at any one time.
iii) Chemicals and Gases
WE will not pay for any claim if the principal use of YOUR CAR or 
TRAILER is the carriage of chemicals or gases in liquid compressed or 
gaseous form with a classification of 1 to 9 in the United Nations 
Economic Commission for Europe Transport of Dangerous Goods 
Orange Book.
Mr D has said some chemicals or gases he occasionally carries fall into the definition within 
the policy and so he hasnt carried them. Mr D has referred to petrol and camping gas when 
talking about these. Hes also said he may sometimes carry more than 2,000 shotgun 
cartridges, which NFUM have asked him to let him know each time he may do so. 
I understand Mr D thinks the wording in the policy schedule overrides the policys terms and 
conditions, but Im not satisfied it does here. I say this because the wording in his policy 
schedule is included in the section about each vehicle and not within the endorsements. 
Also, when reading the policy terms and conditions together Im satisfied the explanation in 
the policy schedule is a summary of the wording in the policys terms and conditions. 
Also, as Mr Ds principal use of his cars isnt to carry chemicals or gases, Im not persuaded 
that exclusion applies to him. However, if there is a claim and the exception is applied, the 
individual circumstances of that claim would need to be reviewed. So while I appreciate Mr D 
says he cant carry petrol or camping gas on the occasions he needs to, as hes not said the 
principal use of his car is to carry chemicals or gas Im not persuaded his policy excludes him 
from doing so when reading the schedule and terms and conditions together. 
I can also see that when Mr D has tried discussing this with NFUM there have been some 
errors with queries not being responded to and requests for confirmation in writing not being 
done. NFUM offered £200 for these errors and Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable 
amount to compensate for any distress and inconvenience caused. Im therefore not going to 
tell NFUM to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limiteds offer of £200 is fair and reasonable and it should pay that 
if not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Alex NewmanOmbudsman