DRN-2618389
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that DAS legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited declined a claim
made on his contents insurance policy, which included legal expenses insurance (LEI).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision this complaint in January 2021 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold it - part of which is copied below:
In or around September 2019, Mr Is former partner commenced legal proceedings against
him (the proceedings). She alleged that:
- shed taken out a bank loan in her name in June 2016 for the benefit of Mr I, who
wanted to use that money to buy a car;
- around the same time, she and Mr I entered into a separate personal agreement
(The Agreement) whereby Mr I would make monthly payments to her, which took
into the monthly repayments she was obliged to pay under the terms of the bank
loan;
- Mr I reneged on the Agreement by not making any monthly payments to her from
September 2016.
Mr I says he paid his former partner in full for the outstanding amount due under Agreement
in December 2017 from his share of the proceeds of a house sale. And a Court Order was
made in December 2018 (after Mr I and his partner had separated) to settle their financial
affairs.
Mr I sought to defend the proceedings and, simultaneously issued a counter-claim for the
costs he incurred to settle their financial affairs in 2017 / 2018.
He made a claim under his LEI to cover his legal costs. DAS declined cover on the basis that
the subject matter of the defence and / or counter-claim wasnt an insured event under the
policy.
Unhappy, Mr I complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Is complaint; he 
didnt think DAS had unfairly declined to cover his claim. Mr I disagreed so his complaint has 
been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The policy can cover certain contractual disputes which are stipulated in the policy.
Your or your familys legal rights in a contractual dispute arising from an agreement 
or an alleged agreement which you or your family has entered into for:
- The buying or hiring in or any goods or services or the selling of any goods;
- your legal rights in a contractual dispute or for misrepresentation arising from an
agreement or alleged agreement which you have entered into for the buying or
selling of your principal home.
Provided that Mr I and / or his family had entered into the agreement or alleged agreement
during the insurance period, and the amount in dispute was over £100.
DAS says the Agreement was connected to the bank loan that Mr Is former partner had
taken out, which was a financial product. So, it says the contractual dispute between them,
which formed the subject of the proceedings, didnt arise out of the buying or hiring of any
goods or services, or the selling of any goods.
Mr I points out that the bank loan taken out by his former partner was to purchase a car.
However, I dont think that means the Agreement was for goods or services. It was an
agreement for Mr I to pay his former partner an amount of money each month to enable her
to fulfil her contractual obligations under the separate loan agreement shed entered with the
bank to make monthly repayments.
So, Im not currently satisfied that DAS has unreasonably declined the claim on the basis
that the nature of the contractual dispute between Mr I and his former partner wasnt covered
under the LEI.
I also note the policy expressly states that contractual disputes involving a motor vehicle
arent covered under the policy. So, even if Mr I is right when he says the Agreement related
to the purchase of a car, which Im not persuaded by, it wouldnt be covered under the policy
in any event.
Mr I also says he wasnt aware of any dispute with his former partner until 2019. As far as he
was concerned, hed paid her back in full for the bank loan shed taken out in late 2017 and
their financial affairs had been settled by way of Court Order after theyd separated. Mr I took
out home insurance with a different insurer in December 2018 which included contents
insurance (the 2018 policy). Although, this policy also included LEI, it has been confirmed to
our Service that the LEI section of the policy wasnt underwritten DAS (DAS only
administered the LEI in the 2018 policy).
I understand that Mr I has sought to claim on the 2018 policy, and it has been declined. So,
any complaint he has about the 2018 policy, to cover his legal costs in relation to the
proceedings, will need to be considered separately against the LEI underwriter of that policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, I havent considered any complaint about cover being declined
under the 2018 policy.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. Mr I replied, accepting my provisional decision. DAS 
didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new arguments or presented any new evidence theres no 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
So, for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision  I dont uphold Mr Is 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Is complaint against DAS legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman