DRN-1741523
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the amount Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) settled his guaranteed asset protection (GAP) claim for.
What happened
Around September 2017, Mr T bought a new motorbike. He also bought GAP insurance 
provided by Mapfre.
 
Unfortunately, Mr Ts motorbike was stolen in 2019. He received a £12,250 settlement from 
his main motor insurer. He then notified a claim on his GAP policy. Mapfre offered him a 
settlement of £2,698.25. Mr T says this is too low as its based on a valuation of £14,654 for 
a replacement motorbike  whereas hed need to pay around £17,000 for a new motorbike 
from the same manufacturer.
Mapfre said it got the cost valuation from Glasss motor price guide. As this was lower than 
what Mr T originally paid for his motorbike, it paid the difference between the higher amount 
he originally paid  and the settlement from his main motor insurer. Plus it paid £250 for his 
motor insurance excess. It said this was fair and in line with the terms of the policy. 
Mr T referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr T 
disagreed, another investigator reviewed the case. He explained that, as per the policy 
terms, the settlement is determined by Glasss motor trade guide rather than advertised 
prices  which often build in margins for negotiation. After reviewing the policy terms and 
how the settlement had been calculated, he was satisfied the amount offered was fair  
taking into account the guide price for the version of Mr Ts motorbike available new at the 
time of his claim. He said the valuation was lower than what Mr T paid originally, so it was to 
his benefit that Mapfre used his original invoice price to calculate the settlement. 
Mr T disputes that he could buy a new replacement bike for the price the guide suggests. He 
thinks its at least £1,000 too low. The case has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Mapfre has settled this claim fairly. Ill explain why.
As a starting point, Ive reviewed what the terms and conditions of the policy say about how 
claims will be settled. If a GAP claim is met, the terms say Mapfre will pay: 
the difference between the Motor Insurance Settlement and the greater of: 
a) The cost, at the date of Total Loss by reference to Glasss Guide, of replacing 
the Insured Motorcycle with another of the same age, model, specification and 
mileage as at the date You purchased it. For example, if You purchased a 1 year 
old motorcycle with 10,000 miles on the odometer and this was declared a Total 
Loss after 2 years, this policy would pay the difference between the Motor 
Insurance Settlement and a 1 year old motorcycle of the same specification, 
with 10,000 miles on the odometer at the date of Total Loss
If the original model is no longer available, the cost, by reference to Glasss 
Guide, of an equivalent superseding motorcycle with the same age, model, 
specification and mileage as at the date You purchased the Insured Motorcycle 
will be used. Where an equivalent superseding motorcycle is not listed in Glasss 
Guide, the Claims Administrator will obtain the cost of a replacement or 
equivalent superseding motorcycle by assessing the average of three 
independent market valuations
b) if You financed the purchase of the Insured Motorcycle, the Finance Early 
Settlement Balance payable to the Finance Company at the date of Total Loss 
In the unlikely event the replacement motorcycle costs less than the original 
purchase price, the policy will pay the higher of either the outstanding finance 
balance or the original purchase price.
In the unlikely event the replacement motorcycle costs less than the original 
purchase price, the policy will pay the higher of either the outstanding finance 
balance or the original purchase price. 
As Mr T bought his motorbike new, hes entitled to the difference between his motor 
insurance settlement and the cost of a new bike of the same specification (or what he 
originally paid, if thats higher). Mapfre broke down its GAP settlement as follows:
Replacement vehicle price Reference to Glasss Guide: £14,698.25
Less Insurance settlement including policy excess: £ 12,250.00
Excess £250.00
GAP payment £2,698.25
Its explained the replacement vehicle price it used  £14,698.25  is what Mr T originally 
paid for his motorbike, as that was higher than Glasss price for a new bike  £14,654. But 
Mr T is unhappy that Glasss estimate doesnt match the manufacturers price. So, I consider 
the key question here to be  is the replacement cost Mapfre used fair?
The terms specify that the replacement cost used will be determined by reference to 
Glasss Guide. Mapfre showed us that it used the list price according to Glasss for the 
same model Mr T had with zero mileage. Im satisfied this has been calculated correctly. But, 
as our second investigator noted, Mr T was entitled to the replacement cost of a bike not 
only of the same specification and mileage but also of the same age as when he bought it. 
Hes told us he could no longer buy his 2017 model new in 2019. My research suggests 
thats correct. So, in line with the policy terms, Mr Ts settlement should be based on the 
replacement cost (according to Glasss) of an equivalent superseding motorcycle with the 
same age, model, specification and mileage as at the date You purchased the Insured 
Motorcycle.Our investigator therefore checked Glasss list price for a new model as of 2019, with at least 
the same specification as Mr Ts original bike, and found it was valued still at £14,654. Mr T 
has questioned this. He thinks the guide is wrong. But the policy terms make it clear that this 
guide will be used. So thats my starting point for whats fair  as both parties have ultimately 
agreed to these terms. And motor guides such as Glasss are based on extensive 
nationwide research on likely selling prices. Im satisfied this is more reliable than using the 
manufacturers advertised price. Dealers may have been selling the motorbike for less than 
the manufacturer  and advertised prices may build in scope for negotiation. 
Additionally, Mr T has told me that although the 2017 model was no longer available, the 
2018 version was still being sold new. He says this was still around £1,000 more than 
Glasss valuation. But, taking into account the points Ive made above about why we 
generally find the guides more reliable than advertised prices, it could be a factor in the 
apparent size of the discrepancy. I think the reasonable interpretation of the policy is that it 
covers the closest superseding model rather than the newest model available. In essence, 
the policy is designed to protect Mr Ts loss rather than to provide him with a better model. 
I understand Mr Ts disappointment in the settlement and his reasons for pursuing this case. 
But overall, Im not persuaded the available evidence substantiates his allegation that 
Glasss valuation is inaccurate or unfair. Im therefore not increasing the settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman