DRN-3314407
The complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of a car supplied to him by Startline Motor Finance Limited 
(Startline) under a hire purchase agreement.
Mr N is represented in this complaint by his wife who I will call Mrs N - but Ill refer to 
everything as if Mr N had said it, for ease of reading.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr N entered in a hire purchase agreement with Startline for a used car. Mr N 
borrowed £4,400 from Startline which was the cash price of the car. The agreement was for 
a term of 36 months and Mr Ns monthly repayments were £159.31. The car was first 
registered in July 2012. The cars mileage was 83.839 miles.
Mr N suggests that the cars engine management warning light was on from the time the car 
was supplied. He took it to the dealership in June 2020 but by that time the engine 
management light was no longer on. Mr N had wanted to take the car to the dealership much 
earlier, but he tells us that was not possible due to the lockdown rules in place due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.  According to Mr N the dealership could not run diagnostic tests in June 
2020 given that the engines warning light was no longer on. 
However, Mr N tells us the warning light subsequently came back on. And then, a few 
months later, the car broke down. Mr N had to call a car breakdown service. The light 
indicated that there was a fault with the alternator. Mr N paid for a third-party mechanic to fix 
the alternator (Mr N had to borrow money to pay the mechanic). But the problem was not 
sorted, so the mechanic took the car and tested it. 
The mechanic said his test showed that there were other errors with the car which would 
cost several hundred pounds to fix. It was the mechanics opinion that all the errors had 
been present at the time the car was supplied. Mr N contacted Startline for help. Mr N asked 
it if he could miss that months payment to use the money to pay for the repairs. Startline did 
not agree to this proposal. 
Based on what he has been told and experienced Mr N suggests the car had faults from the 
time it was supplied, and he also suggests this means that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality.  Ill talk about why the concept of satisfactory quality is significant later in this 
decision. Mr Ns stance is that Startline ought to have to pay for the repairs.
Startline suggests that it cannot now assess whether the parts Mr N replaced were of 
satisfactory quality or not as the parts have been replaced. But it pointed out that a car of 
this age and mileage would be expected to have some wear and tear. That by itself would 
not mean the car was not of satisfactory quality. Therefore, it declined to pay for the repairs.
Dissatisfied Mr N came to our service. 
Once the complaint was with us Startline sent us further information which suggested the 
initial problem with the car was in relation to the battery. It appeared that Mr N had taken the 
car to the dealership and the dealership had assessed the car. The dealership noted that the 
car had not been driven due to the lockdown. In the opinion of the car dealership the battery 
needed to charge by going for a long drive. According to the car dealership Mr N agreed with 
it that he would do this and come back to it if there were any further problems with the 
battery. Startline provided us with a copy of an email from Mr N which indicated the car had 
not been driven a lot due to lockdown. Moreover, it was only in December 2020 that Mr N 
then complained about new issues which included the alternator. Startline told us it had 
offered to get an independent expert to check the car, but Mr N had declined this offer. 
Further, Mr N suggested that the alternator problem was related to the initial battery 
problem.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint. She did not recommend upholding it.
Startline accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr N did not. In brief, in response, Mr 
N accepted that wear and tear is something that does happen, but he still thinks Startline 
should be held to account because he first had problems with the car within the warranty 
period. He added due to lockdown it wasn't fixed, this wasn't my fault and it should have 
been fixed out of courtesy because of the UK lockdown.
Mr N asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such, this service is able to consider complaints relating to it.  
Moreover, Startline, is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and as a 
result it is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
considering any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history.
In addition, under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from 
minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
In order to uphold this complaint, I would have to be persuaded the car was not of 
satisfactory quality and so a breach of the contract has taken place. Mr N and Startline 
disagree about this.
Further, in order to say that the car was not of satisfactory quality I would need to be 
satisfied that the problems with the car were there at the point of supply. Again, Mr N and 
Startline disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances
In this case the car supplied was a second-hand car, it was first registered in July 2012 and 
had it had clocked up 83.839 miles and had a value of £4,400. I think a reasonable person 
would therefore expect the car to have wear and tear. 
Mr N has told us the mechanic who carried out the work is clear the faults were not due to 
wear and tear. However, the mechanic is not an independent third party in the 
circumstances in that he diagnosed and carried out and was paid for the repair work. So, I am unable to rely on what he says about this issue. I have no information from an 
independent third party to suggest that the issues were not due to wear and tear.
From the information I have on the file Im satisfied that the initial problem with the battery 
was not caused by an inherent fault but rather by lack of use. It follows that I cant say that 
the car was not of satisfactory quality due to this reason.
In addition, the new faults appeared, I am persuaded in December 2020. In the 
circumstances it appears that these were wear and tear issues, I say this for a number of 
reasons. If these faults had been present from the get-go, Id have expected those specific 
faults to have presented sooner than they did. Further, even if these new faults were present 
from the point of supply by their nature the parts that failed are susceptible to wear and tear 
and it would not be surprising for these parts to fail once a car had reached this age and 
mileage. I dont need to make any finding about whether the alternator fault was related to 
the earlier battery fault, because as I have already said, even if was, it was most likely a 
wear and tear issue.
When Mr N talks about the car being within its warranty period, it appears he is referring to a 
warranty he bought. Ive seen nothing to show that there was separate warranty that bound 
Startline as a part of the finance agreement.
I recognise that it may well have been distressing for Mr N that all of this happened at a time 
when the nation was experiencing a pandemic and the lockdown that went with it. But just 
because Mr N had problems with the car in the midst of that situation, this by itself, did not 
create any obligation that I can enforce on Startline to put this right.
Moreover, Mr N wanted Startline to allow him to defer at least one repayment so he could 
pay for the repairs. There were provisions in place to help consumers who experienced 
financial difficulties with their motor finance agreements due to the pandemic. However, in 
this instance those provisions did not cover Mr N. This is because his difficulties in making 
the repayment was due to having to pay for unexpected repairs rather than due to financial 
hardship caused by the pandemic.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman