DRN-3150658
The complaint
Miss C complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale 
agreement that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2018, Miss C acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Miss C made an initial payment of £700 and was required to make a further 53 
monthly repayments of £143. The total repayable under the agreement was £8,291.
Miss C says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included creditworthiness and indebtedness 
checks and received evidence of Miss Cs income through two months payslips. It says that 
although there was evidence of a default on Miss Cs credit report this was over 12 months 
old. It said the repayments were for 8.5% of Miss Cs net monthly income and that Miss C 
maintained her repayments without raising concerns until she settled her agreement early in 
September 2020. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Miss C.
Moneybarn requested copies of the information our adjudicator had relied on in her view. 
Our adjudicator sent the banks statements used in her view to Moneybarn. No further 
response was received. Therefore, this case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Miss C about her income. I say this because it considered two months 
payslips and assessed Miss Cs income based on these taking into consideration that part of 
the income recorded was for overtime. These showed her monthly income as being around 
£1,700.
However, I cannot see that Moneybarn asked Miss C about her expenditure. Although it did 
complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what Miss Cs regular living expenses 
were. Without knowing what Miss Cs regular committed expenditure was Moneybarn 
wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or 
not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have found out more about 
Miss Cs committed expenditure, such as her living costs. I cant be sure exactly what 
Moneybarn would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it 
would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Miss Cs 
bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Miss C had monthly outgoings of around £1,700. This included £450 for rent, 
around £320 for utilities and council tax, £200 for food and transport along with other 
additional costs such as telephone and insurance. Miss C had payments of £231 a month for 
another loan and was paying over £320 towards debt management plans. While I note 
Moneybarns comment about Miss C not declaring she was in a debt management plan at 
the time I think it reasonable that expenditure checks would have taken place and had these 
happened, I think Moneybarn would have realised that Miss Cs living costs didnt leave her 
with enough disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. Moneybarn therefore 
didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Miss C should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £4,999 (of which Miss C paid £700 as an 
initial payment). Anything Miss C has paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as 
an overpayment. 
To settle Miss Cs complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund any payments Miss C has made in excess of £4,999, representing the 
original cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Miss C to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn must 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss C asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman