DRN-3672854
The complaint
The estate of Mr R (The Estate) is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) released the
proceeds of an account to someone who wasnt entitled to them.
What happened
Sadly, in February 2018, Mr R died. At that time, a will written in 2017 named Mr Rs partner
as sole executor of his estate. This replaced a previous will which named Mr Rs two
daughters as the executors of his estate.
Mr Rs daughters felt that Mr R had been coerced into changing his will by his partner and
placed a formal caveat on the estate a few days after Mr R died, contesting the 2017 will. An
agreement was reached in mediation between Mr Rs daughters and his partner in October
2019 that the 2014 will would be recognised as valid, and that Mr Rs daughters (henceforth
referred to as The Estate) were the executors of the estate.
The Estate then approached BOS and requested the release of the funds held in Mr Rs
account, whereby it was told by BOS that the proceeds of the account had previously
already been released to solicitors acting on behalf of the partner, who had supplied the
2017 will to BOS to support her claim. The Estate then approached the partner who advised
that the proceeds of that account were no longer available and could not be recovered.
The Estate werent happy that BOS had released the proceeds of the account to the partner,
especially given the formal caveat theyd placed on the estate and which had been in place
when BOS had released the money to the partner. So, they raised a complaint.
BOS looked at The Estates complaint. It explained that in cases where an account balance
is less than £50,000  as was the case in this instance  that BOSs policy is to not require
probate to be granted to a party making a reasonable request for the account funds, with the
intention being to not place unnecessary barriers to a bereaved party at that difficult time.
BOS also noted that the partner had provided what appeared to be a valid will which
confirmed that they were the executor of the estate and as such they didnt feel that theyd
acted unfairly by releasing the money to the partner as they had.
The Estate wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so it referred its complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that BOS had acted
unfairly or unreasonably in how it had managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold The
Estates complaint.
The Estate remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 August 2022, as follows:
BOS has explained that they have a policy where they dont require probate to be 
granted before releasing the proceeds of accounts where the balance of that account 
is less that £50,000. I can see why BOS may have a policy like this, but as with any 
policy or procedure, the strict application of this can sometimes lead to an unfair 
outcome in the individual circumstances of a complaint. And in this instance, while I 
can see that BOS has stuck to their policy, in my view that has resulted in an unfair 
outcome for The Estate.
BOS may contend that the partner provided what appeared to be a valid will which 
named her as the executor. And given their policy, BOS then didnt do any further 
checks or insist on further documentation before releasing the money to them. But 
matters relating to the financial affairs of estates can be involving and complicated. 
And in my view, by following the policy that BOS did here, and in not doing any 
checks, I feel that BOS accepted the risks present in not asking for further 
information from the partner before releasing the funds.
Such an approach may help many customers in reducing the friction involved in 
getting access to funds at a difficult time. But it also runs the risk of releasing money 
to parties that might not be entitled to it  which is what happened here. Had BOS 
performed more checks, or asked further questions, they would have realised that 
they party requesting the money may not have been entitled to it, where the will had 
been contested. In these circumstances, I dont think its fair that The Estate incurs 
the loss that was suffered as a result of BOSs acceptance of the risks involved in the 
decision they made.
BOS can say that they werent aware of any reason not to release the money. But I 
dont think The Estate needed to have contacted BOS about this matter. It had 
already contested the will and I think its reasonable to say that the executors 
wouldnt have believed there were any further steps they needed to take, where the 
formal caveat they had in place was intended to avoid situations just like this one  
especially given as there appears to be little information on BOSs website to suggest 
that the proceeds of an account could be released to an applicant party without the 
need for probate to be granted.
Its also worth noting that The Estate has acted in a reasonable manner in the overall
circumstances here. It placed a caveat on the 2017 will within days of the death of Mr 
R, and it then sought to legally challenge that will, which ultimately resulted in the 
October 2019 mediation agreement that the prior 2014 will would be accepted as Mr 
Rs valid will. And following this, The Estate then approached BOS to request the 
release of the money, only to discover that BOS had already released the money to 
an illegitimate party  the partner  without requiring evidence of probate.
The Estate has also sought to recover the money released to the partner from the 
partner, but without success because the partner no longer has the money.
So, in the circumstances here, my provisional instructions are that BOS must make a
payment to The Estate equal to the balance of the money that was released 
illegitimately to the partner.
Additionally, BOS must also pay interest on that balance to The Estate at the rate the
balance would have achieved had it remained in the account from the date that BOS
released the money to the partner to the date that The Estate approached BOS to 
request the release of the funds having successfully challenged the will.Finally, BOS must pay 8% simple interest on the combined balance and interest 
outlined above calculated from the date The Estate first approached BOS to request 
the release of the funds having successfully challenged the will to the date that BOS 
make the payments to The Estate as instructed in this letter.
In response to my provisional decision, The Estate provided some further points that it asked 
me to consider. These included that it felt that BOS allowing the partner to take the money 
from the account financially facilitated the partners subsequent legal challenge against The 
Estates attempts to have the 2014 will recognised as the late Mr Rs valid will. The Estate 
contends that it incurred legal expenses and costs it otherwise wouldnt have done, had BOS 
not released the money to the partner which the partner then used to fund her legal defence.
I can appreciate The Estates position here, but I dont feel I can reasonably instruct BOS to 
pay additional costs to The Estate as The Estate would like here. There are several reasons 
for this, including that legal matters such as this generally fall outside the remit of what this 
service can consider. Additionally, Im not convinced it can be reasonably demonstrated that 
the partner wouldnt have been able to mount a similarly effective legal challenge without the 
money being made available to her by BOS. And this is especially the case given that the 
partners position regarding this matter appears to have been defensive, in that they were 
attempting to confirm the validity of the most recent will, rather than seeking to overturn it.
The Estate has also explained that Mr Rs daughters have personally incurred a great deal 
of stress and upset because of BOS releasing the money to the partner. I dont doubt that 
this is the case, but the rules by which this service must abide  which can be found in the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  
dont allow for this service to instruct compensation for trouble and upset when a complaint 
is brought to this service in the name of an estate, as this complaint has been. In short, this 
is because an estate is a legal entity, rather than a person, and a legal entity cant be 
distressed or inconvenienced  these are things that happen to a person.
Of course, this isnt to suggest that the daughters of Mr R havent incurred stress and upset 
because of whats happened here  and I can appreciate that they may well have done. Its 
only to say that Im unable to consider this complaint from the personal perspective of the 
daughters in this instance, given that this complaint is brought in the name of The Estate. 
In my provisional decision letter, I also gave BOS the opportunity to provide any relevant 
comments or new information it might wish me to consider before I moved to a final decision. 
However, BOS didnt respond within the 28-day timeframe provided. As such, given all of the 
above, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint on the same 
basis as described in my provisional decision, and I can confirm that I do uphold this 
complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
BOS must make a payment to The Estate equal to the balance of the money that was 
released to the partner.
Additionally, BOS must also pay interest on that balance to The Estate at the rate the
balance would have achieved had it remained in the account from the date that BOS
released the money to the partner to the date that The Estate approached BOS to request 
the release of the funds having successfully challenged the will.
Finally, BOS must pay 8% simple interest on the combined balance and interest outlined 
above, calculated from the date The Estate first approached BOS to request the release of the funds having successfully challenged the will, to the date that BOS makes the payments 
to The Estate as instructed in this letter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman