DRN-4089190
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Metro Bank PLC failed to refund transactions they didnt 
recognise and provided account details to a third party.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H opened an account with Metro for emergency use. During the opening of 
the account, Metro mistakenly gave another customer a debit card that used funds from Mr 
H and Mrs Hs account. About a month after opening it, the customer reported that 
something was wrong to Metro, and believed hed been spending money from an account 
that wasnt his own.
Metro contacted Mr H about the issue and advised theyd given his card to the wrong 
person. Metro refunded the payments made from the account and offered £100 
compensation which Mr H and Mrs H declined. New cards were issued.
The following year, Mr H and Mrs H noticed recurring payments had left their account which 
they hadnt authorised and went back to Metro about them. They made a complaint about 
the issue to Metro and later brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review.
The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked for information from 
both parties about the complaint. Mr H and Mrs Hs representative explained the impact the 
issue had on the account holders, especially Mr H due to medical issues he suffered from 
that had been made worse by the situation with their account.
Metro looked into the issue with the recurring payments and identified that they were 
payments set up on the original payment card that had been carried through to the new card. 
Metro blocked this from happening again and refunded the rest of the unrecognised 
payments. Metro accepted the lack of service and offered £200 in compensation.
The investigator wrote his conclusions about the complaint and thought that the offer from 
Metro was reasonable and recommended it. Mr H and Mrs H disagreed and thought they 
were still missing some funds from Metro that had been spent by others and they also 
thought the compensation payment was insufficient. 
Mr H and Mrs H later accepted theyd been refunded all the missing funds but didnt accept 
the compensation offered by Metro. They wanted Metro to be fined or the compensation 
figure increased. Mr H and Mrs H were concerned that this type of event doesnt affect 
others and that Metro should be held to account.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair to conclude that Metro made an error when they mistakenly produced a card 
that used the funds from Mr H and Mrs Hs account that was given to another customer. 
Once they found out, they corrected the error, reissued the card, and refunded the lost 
funds.
Because the account wasnt used for normal purchases, Mr H and Mrs H didnt immediately 
realise recurring payments (set up from the original card) had been leaving the account. 
Metro again looked into the issue and refunded the rest of the recurring payments, 
apologised and offered £200 to recognise the impact this had had on Mr H and Mrs H.
I appreciate here that Mr H in particular feels strongly about the impact this had on him and 
the potential of it for other people to be caught in the same situation. He didnt think the 
compensation went far enough and wanted Metro to be fined.
I think it worth explaining the role of our service in a little detail. Were here to independently 
review complaints from eligible complainants such as Mr H and Mrs H. Where appropriate, 
well issue recommendations for redress to put people back in the position they were in prior 
to the problem and award further payments for the impact this may have had on them. 
Were not the regulator and thus not here to punish businesses. So, when assessing the 
situation, I have to take into account what happened and the impact this had on the 
complainants. Here, the account was set up as an emergency pot of funds and wasnt 
needed at the time of the complaint. I accept that Metro caused Mr H and Mrs H stress and 
worry by their actions and recognise the additional difficulties Mr H experienced due to his 
medical situation. 
Because the account wasnt used, there was little practical impact, but I do recognise that 
once Mr H and Mrs H became aware of the problem, this caused both stress and worry for 
them. I understand this also shook their confidence in Metros ability to look after their funds. 
Metro had also failed to block the recurring payments, meaning Mr H and Mrs H had to again 
raise it with them, causing further distress. I do recognise that Metro put things back as they 
were once they knew about the issue.
Overall, Mr H and Mrs H havent lost their funds, but they did suffer some inconvenience 
having to complain twice and suffered stress and worry about the security of their funds. But, 
I think Metros offer of £200 was a reasonable offer and I wont be asking them to increase 
this.
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, Metro should now pay £200 to Mr H and Mrs H for the 
reasons set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Metro Bank PLC are instructed to settle 
this complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 David Perry
Ombudsman