DRN-4317206
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he says he lost to a scam.
What happened
It is undisputed that Mr Bs Santander debit card was used in connection with a transaction 
which took place on 30 September 2022. The amount of the transaction was £584.25. It was 
one of five transactions which were attempted around that time, three before and one after, 
(the others having been declined) and was to the benefit of what appears to be a travel 
company.
Mr B contacted Santander the same day as the payment and said that he believed that the 
transaction, as well as a separate payment, had been carried out by a third party without his 
knowledge or authority.
A couple of weeks later he said that hed actually been trying to book flight tickets using a 
firm that hed previously booked with but had ended up speaking to someone else. 
He says that he provided the person he spoke to with his card details. They said they tried to 
process a payment but it didnt go through. He was asked for, and provided, authorisation 
numbers (likely one-time passcodes issued by Santander). At some point during the call, Mr 
B said that he had to go and would call back the following day. But when he finished work he 
noticed both that Santander had tried to contact him and the transaction in dispute.
He said that he later got back in touch with the caller and was told to visit its business 
premises in person to receive a refund. He says he went to its offices in two different cities 
but each time he found an empty lot and no travel company. Eventually, he said, the caller 
told him that theyd defrauded him. 
Santander said that it could not provide a refund because he authorised the payment. 
He referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators didnt uphold his 
complaint. They were satisfied that Mr B authorised the payment, Santander wouldnt have 
found anything unusual or suspicious about it, or the payments around it, and didnt think it 
had made a mistake by declining to try and recover the payment through the chargeback 
scheme. 
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr B is responsible for payments hes authorised himself. 
In this case, Mr B seems to accept that he did authorise the payments. He gave over his 
card details and, it appears, at least one one-time passcode. I understand that he did so 
believing that he was authorising a payment. So, Im satisfied that Mr B consented to the 
payment taking place and the starting point is that he is liable for it. 
Its unclear to me who Mr B was actually speaking to. Several payments were attempted with 
the recipients being three different, seemingly legitimate, travel companies. While the travel 
company which debited his account does have overwhelmingly negative reviews (mostly 
regarding charges for changing flights or failing to provide refunds), it appears to be the 
limited company operating a seemingly reputable travel business and website with a very 
significant number of positive reviews. The other two firms recorded as recipients for the 
failed payments also appear to be long established travel firms. 
But, Mr B implies that the person he spoke to impersonated a different travel company and, 
when he later contacted it, it promised him a refund if he travelled to their premises, first in 
his home city and then another city hundreds of miles away, before admitting they were 
defrauding him. 
Those clearly arent the actions of a legitimate firm but its odd that the name of a genuine 
travel company would appear on his statement, in exactly the same form as its full legal 
name, if that wasnt who he was dealing with. Its possible that the person he spoke to used 
his card to attempt purchases with various legitimate travel companies, though this method 
of fraud would be, in my experience, highly unusual.
Had Santander disputed the payment through the chargeback scheme then it would be clear 
whether the genuine travel company which appeared on his statement or someone 
impersonating it was behind the payment. But, I dont think Santander acted unfairly when it 
didnt raise a chargeback. Mr B initially gave an entirely different version of events  that a 
third party was responsible for the transaction. Where fraud is alleged, but a transaction has 
been authenticated using two factor authentication (a one-time passcode, in this case) there 
would be no rights to raise a chargeback. 
When, a few weeks later, Mr B said that the payment was actually in relation to flight tickets, 
Santander might have attempted a chargeback but, again, I dont think it acted unfairly by 
not doing so. The dispute still seemed to be about whether Mr B had given permission for 
the transaction to take place rather than a dispute about whether the tickets were provided. 
And, on the facts, it was apparent Mr B had authorised the payment himself. 
So, while frustrating, I dont think Santander made an error when it didnt raise a chargeback 
in relation to the tickets.
 
Ive also considered whether, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to be good industry practice at the time this payment 
was made, whether, fairly and reasonably, Santander ought to have recognised that Mr B 
was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
 
I recognise that there were several payments attempted in quick succession to various 
different merchants. And it appears that Santander did try to contact Mr B about the activity 
that had taken place, though seemingly after the event. But I dont think the activity 
suggested Mr B was at heightened risk of falling victim to a scam such that Santander ought 
to have intervened and questioned the payments. The companies that were attempting to 
debit his account would have all appeared to be legitimate and the payments were declined 
because there were insufficient funds in the account. I dont think this activity is consistent 
with a scam and Santander would have known that the payments were authenticated using 
one-time passcodes, making it very unlikely that anyone other than Mr B was authorising 
them. So, I dont think it acted unfairly by not questioning the payment in dispute before it 
debited Mr Bs account.Overall, Im sorry that Mr B has lost out, but I dont think that Santander have made a 
mistake by declining to refund his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman