DRN-3750466
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has turned down 
an incapacity claim she made on an income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties. So I havent set them 
out in detail here. Instead, Ive summarised what I think are the key events.
Mrs H was insured under a personal income protection insurance policy. The policy provided 
cover if Mrs H became incapacitated and unable to work in her own occupation because of 
illness or accident. The specified deferred period was 26 weeks. 
In 2017, Mrs H became unwell and reduced her hours to part-time working. And in 2020, she 
said she was unfit to work at all. She said shed suffered from a number of symptoms. But it 
wasnt until late 2020 that Mrs H was diagnosed with a rare tumour, which required surgery. 
So in late January 2021, Mrs H made an incapacity claim on her policy. She sent in a 
completed claim form in February 2021.
L&G obtained medical evidence so that it could assess the claim. Ultimately, it turned down 
Mrs Hs claim. Thats because it didnt think the medical evidence showed that Mrs H had 
been incapacitated by her symptoms, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs H was unhappy with L&Gs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
didnt think L&G had contacted the right medical professionals when itd asked for medical 
evidence to assess the claim. Thered been a delay in L&G assessing her claim, which had 
meant it couldnt effectively assess whether shed been unfit for work in January or February 
2021. She was also unhappy that L&G hadnt paid a hospital benefit claim.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She considered it had been 
Mrs Hs responsibility to provide enough evidence to show she met the policy definition of 
incapacity. She felt the medical evidence L&G did have reflected that Mrs H was generally fit 
and well. And while she acknowledged Mrs H had previously received statutory sick pay 
(SSP), and hadnt been working at the time of diagnosis, she didnt think there was enough 
evidence to show that Mrs H had been incapacitated by her tumour. So she thought itd been 
fair for L&G to turn down her claim.
Mrs H disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator:
L&G hadnt followed its own claims process, as it hadnt requested relevant 
information before deciding the claim, including what her own occupation involved;
The investigator had failed to take into account relevant evidence, including the high 
volume of hospital appointments shed had; the major surgery shed undergone and 
medication shed been taking;
L&G hadnt responded to her claim appeal. This had deprived her of the opportunity 
to cancel her policy and save herself a significant amount in premiums;
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I must make it clear that this decision will only 
consider whether L&Gs decision to turn down Mrs Hs claim was fair and reasonable. Mrs H 
has made a separate complaint about the delay in L&Gs assessment of her claim and 
another ombudsman has already made a decision on that complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H, I think it was fair for L&G to turn down 
her claim and Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Mrs H that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all shes said and sent us. Im 
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mrs H needing to make a claim and I 
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for her and her family. In 
making my decision though, I havent commented on each and every point shes made and 
nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, amongst other 
things, the terms of Mrs Hs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether 
L&G handled Mrs Hs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy, as these form the basis of 
her contract with L&G. Mrs H made a claim on for incapacity benefit, as she considered she 
wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for L&G to consider whether 
Mrs Hs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look L&Gs definition 
of incapacity. This says:
The Life Assured will be considered to be incapacitated if she is in gainful employment or 
gainful self-employment immediately prior to the incapacity and in the opinion of Legal & 
Generals Chief Medical Officer is, by reason of illness or accident, totally unable to perform 
her own occupation such that normal duties cannot be carried out, and she is not following 
any other employment or self-employment.
If the Life Assured is not in gainful employment the total monthly benefit payable under this 
policy will be limited to £800 per month or any higher maximum enforced by Legal & General 
current at the time of the claim.
This means that in order for L&G to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a 
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out the normal duties of their own 
occupation. In Mrs Hs case, it means that L&G needs to be satisfied that her illness totally 
prevented her from performing the normal duties of her occupation. By Mrs Ds account, 
when her symptoms presented, she was working in a full-time directors role. By 2020, she 
was working in a part-time admin role, before leaving work entirely.
In order for benefit to be paid, a policyholder mustve been incapacitated in line with the 
policy terms, for the entire deferred period and afterwards. Mrs Hs deferred period was 26 
weeks. On Mrs Hs claim form, she stated that shed become incapacitated in March 2016. It 
appears she was still working full-time at this point. And it doesnt appear that she stopped working until 2020. On that basis, L&G decided that Mrs Hs date of first absence should be 
treated as the date of her tumour surgery in April 2021  although I appreciate this is 
substantially after the date Mrs H considered herself to have become incapacitated.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mrs Hs responsibility to provide L&G with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that her illness had led to her being unable to carry out her normal 
duties. I appreciate that Mrs H feels that L&G didnt consider what her normal duties were. I 
can see though from the claim form she completed that she was given an opportunity to 
explain her normal duties. She provided a brief overview of her core director duties, which 
included management, setting strategy and attending board meetings. She noted that shed 
later worked part time as an admin assistant. As such then, I dont think it was unfair for L&G 
to rely on the information Mrs H provided about her normal duties when it assessed the 
claim. 
As Ive set out above, its a policyholders responsibility to provide enough evidence to show 
they have a valid claim on their policy. In practice, insurers often investigate claims on a 
policyholders behalf. And L&G says that it will request evidence to assess claims. I can see 
that on the front of the claim form Mrs H completed, L&G states:
To assess your claim, we need evidence from your General Practitioner and may need 
supporting evidence from other medical professionals involved in your care.
The claim form included a section called Your Doctors Details. Mrs H provided the name 
and address of her GP. And she gave the details of an endocrinologist shed consulted 
called Dr C. As such then, I think it was both fair and appropriate for L&G to rely on the 
information Mrs H had given it when seeking medical evidence from her medical team.
L&G assessed the medical evidence it was provided about Mrs Hs health and medical 
condition and concluded that it didnt indicate that she met the policy definition of incapacity. 
So Ive next looked at the available medical evidence to assess whether I think this was a 
fair conclusion for L&G to draw.
Like the investigator, Ive looked closely at the GPs records, which show the consultations 
Mrs H had during the relevant period. While I appreciate Mrs H wasnt given a diagnosis until 
late 2020, the GPs notes are a helpful, contemporaneous record of Mrs Hs overall health 
between March 2016 and the date of claim assessment. The GP provided a cover letter, 
which included the following:
Mrs H was diagnosed witha mass (early December 2020) following a referral under Two 
Week Wait to the Haematuria clinic on 29 October 2020. This followed a weeks history of 
haematuria
As you can see from the enclosed notes, Mrs H has presented with a variety of symptoms, 
but mainly related to her ear, nose and throat symptoms, for which she received treatment
It is unclear how long she had the tumour, but due to its unpredictable symptoms, nature and 
clinical ambiguity, it is very hard to give a definite timescale when she first developed the 
(tumour)
No formal sick note requested or issuedrelated to (the tumour) since 2016.
Having considered the GP notes, I can see that the cover letter accords with what Mrs Hs 
surgery has recorded. There is no evidence to show that Mrs H was signed off as unfit for 
work for the length of the deferred period at any point since 2016. And while I can see that Mrs H suffered from chest infections, as well as chest pain and a suspected stroke, these 
dont appear to have resulted in the GP concluding that she was incapacitated from carrying 
out the normal duties of her previous role (for any employer) for longer than 26 weeks. I 
appreciate she was paid SSP for a six-month period during 2020. But such a payment 
doesnt provide persuasive evidence that Mrs H was totally incapacitated from carrying out 
her normal duties in line with the policy terms  especially in the absence of supporting 
evidence from Mrs Hs GP.
Ive looked carefully too at the evidence L&G assessed from Mrs Hs treating specialists, 
including Dr C, amongst others. Mr D, a consultant urological surgeon, wrote to Mrs Hs GP 
surgery on 19 January 2021, following a telephone consultation. He said:
(Mrs H) was otherwise very fit and does HIIT workouts two or three times a week and she is 
completely asymptomatic
On 26 January 2021, Dr C wrote to another consultant. He stated that Mrs H (in relation to 
symptoms of her tumour:
Did not have any sweating, palpitations, shakes, dizziness or pallor. (Mrs H) complains of 
intermittent headaches since October last year. Her main problem seems to be of left-sided 
back pain since last November.
On 10 February 2021, Dr B, an endocrinologist wrote to Mrs Hs GP following a pre-surgery 
clinic. She stated that Mrs Hs diagnosis was fit and well. She noted that Mrs H was a very 
fit and active woman.
In March 2021, one of the endocrinology team wrote to the GP following a consultation. They 
noted that Mrs H was feeling well. Later that month, following an episode of chest pain, the 
endocrinology team told Mrs H to pull back on the exercise  which suggests that at that 
point, Mrs H was continuing to exercise.
Subsequently, in November 2021 (six months after Mrs Hs surgery), Dr B wrote a detailed 
letter to L&G. She stated that she understood Mrs H had been experiencing abdominal and 
left flank pain and insomnia since 2019, but was not able to seek medical attention earlier 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic
Looking at my initial correspondence and letters by endocrinology and urology 
colleagues(Mrs H) was described as a fit and active lady. She did not seem to experience 
the typical symptoms of (the tumour)but she reported experiencing abdominal pain and 
left-sided flank pain for months prior to her referral to us
During her post-operative review on 28/5/2021, she was described as virtually back to her 
normal activity and recovering well
Crucially, Dr B wrote: I am unable to comment on the intensity of her abdominal and left 
flank pain prior to radiological detection of (the tumour) and to what extent this pain together 
with insomnia affected her ability to perform her usual work duties prior to diagnosis. (Mrs H) 
was described as a fit and active lady who exercised and ran on an almost daily basis, which 
suggests that she had not been severely physically incapacitated by her symptoms.
The usual duration of recovery (for Mrs Hs surgery) is around six weeks in most people. I 
would have expected her to be able to resume work in a sedentary, non-physical part time 
occupation after 6 weeks post-surgery.Ive thought very carefully about the totality of the available medical evidence. Ive 
considered Mrs Hs diary of her symptoms. But I dont think it was unfair or reasonable for 
L&G to place more weight on the evidence provided by Mrs Hs GP and the expert 
specialists whod provided her with care. I too find this independent, expert evidence 
persuasive.
Theres simply no persuasive medical evidence which shows that Mrs H was incapacitated 
(or indeed, unfit to work) for longer than 26 weeks prior to her diagnosis in December 2020. 
The evidence post-diagnosis indicates that for much of the time, Mrs H was still active and 
exercising and importantly, Dr B didnt think Mrs Hs level of activity was suggestive of 
severe physical incapacity. Nor is there persuasive medical evidence to show that Mrs H 
was incapacitated by her condition for longer than the deferred period after her surgery took 
place. The medical evidence indicates instead that after around six weeks after the 
operation, Mrs H was virtually back to her normal activity. 
So I dont think L&G acted unfairly when it decided that the evidence didnt show that Mrs H 
was incapacitated by an illness which prevented her from carrying out the normal duties of 
his occupation  either from 2016 onwards; from the date of her diagnosis or from the date 
of her surgery. 
As such then, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs Hs position, I find it was fair and 
reasonable for L&G to turn down her income protection claim. It remains open to Mrs H to 
obtain additional medical evidence from her treating practitioners should she wish to do so 
and to send this to L&G for its further consideration. If shes unhappy with the assessment of 
any new medical evidence, we may potentially be able to consider a complaint about that 
point alone.
I understand Mrs H is unhappy that L&G didnt respond to her appeal letter. I agree that it 
wouldve been helpful had it done so, as it couldve explained to her why her appeal 
arguments didnt change its position. But Im mindful that Mrs H wasnt prevented from 
bringing her complaint to us and Ive been able to consider her appeal points as part of my 
consideration of her complaint. If Mrs H feels that L&Gs actions actively prevented her from 
cancelling her policy though and that she incurred financial loss as a result, she may wish to 
make a separate complaint to L&G about this particular point. 
It's also clear that Mrs H is unhappy because L&G didnt pay her hospitalisation benefit after 
her admission to hospital for surgery. The policy says that L&G will pay hospitalisation 
benefit after the seventh consecutive nights stay in hospital. But the discharge summary for 
Mrs Gs surgery shows that she was discharged after only one night. So I dont think it was 
unfair for L&G to turn down Mrs Gs claim for hospital benefit either.
Overall, Im not directing L&G to pay this claim or any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman