DRN-3784651
The complaint
Mr D and Ms T complain QIC Europe Limited unfairly declined their buildings insurance 
claim.
All references to QIC also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full
here. Below is a summary of the key events that led to this complaint.
Around May 2021, Mr D and Ms T said they noticed signs of what they believed to be
damp in their property.
Mr D and Ms T hired a Damp Proofer to attend the property and investigate.
Rectification works were completed following this.
In August 2021, Mr D and Ms T were contact by their Water Company informing
them it had detected a leak at their property.
Mr D and Ms T contacted QIC to initiate a claim. QIC considered the claim under the
accidental damage section of the policy.
QIC declined Mr D and Ms Ts claim. It said it had been unable to identify any
external source that caused the damage to the pipe and so there was no evidence
of accidental damage.
QIC also declined a claim for resultant damage to the property from the leak. QIC
said considering the level of damage in the property reported it would have been
occurring over a long period and damage wouldve been noticeable to Mr D and Ms T
for some time. It said the leak appeared to predate Mr D and Ms Ts purchase of the
property around two years prior. QIC said this was excluded from cover.
Mr D and Ms T complained to QIC, unhappy with its response, they brought their
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr D and Ms Ts complaint be upheld.
He said there was no evidence of sudden damage to the pipe, and from the information
available he was persuaded it had happened gradually. He said Mr D and Ms T would have
been aware of the damage caused by the leak prior to the claim. So, he said QIC also
declined the claim for the subsequent damage caused by the leak fairly.
Mr D and Ms T agreed there is no claim for the damaged pipe  and said they had never
suggested this was the case to QIC. However, they didnt agree that it was fair for QIC to
decline the claim for the resultant damage. They said when they did first notice damage and
potential issues, around May 2021, they believed it pointed to damp. Mr D and Ms T said
they then did everything possible to prevent further issues.
The complaint then passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 19 October 2022. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr D and Mrs Ts complaint for these reasons:
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think the damage to the pipe itself is covered
under the policy.
Regarding the internal damage, the policy says any gradual or maintenance related
loss or damage is excluded from cover. QIC have applied this exclusion when
declining the claim.
QIC said the damage inside the property would have been visible in some areas for
some time and has noted it was extensive. Its pointed to the wall on the staircase
and the architraves in the hallway in particular.
Having reviewed photographs provided of these areas Im not persuaded the issues
highlighted here would automatically indicate there was a leak. Although the hallway
for example, shows noticeable damage, such as what appears to be peeling/flaking
plaster, Im not persuade its extensive. I think if the damage had been visible for a
long time  I would expect to see more damage. So, Im not persuaded Mr D and
Ms T were aware of the issues before May 2021.
Its agreed by all that Mr D and Ms T wouldn't have known there was a leak present
under the property. When Mr D and Ms T did notice issues, they tried to take steps to
remedy this by consulting a damp proofing expert.
Mr D and Ms T were told by experts damp was the cause of the issues, and I see no
reason for them to question the information they were provided until they were made
aware of the leak. I think its reasonable that they relied on the opinion of the experts
in this matter. We would generally say an insurer is entitled to do the same when it
instructs experts.
I do think Mr D and Ms T could've spoken to QIC when they first noticed the issues,
but can't see this has prejudiced QICs position given its comment on how long its
said the pipe has been likely to have been leaking.
So, considering the above, I dont think QIC have applied the exclusion fairly to
decline claim for the resultant damage caused by the leak.
So for these reasons, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, I intend to direct QIC to now proceed with the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D and Ms T responded to say they accepted my provisional findings.
QIC provided no further response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering what Ive set out above, I see no reason to change my decision  or my 
reasoning. Putting things right
I direct QIC to now proceed with the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr D and Ms Ts complaint.
To put things right, I direct QIC Europe Ltd to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman