DRN-3364111
The complaint
Mr A has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc recorded him as being in arrears when he 
was on a payment holiday.
What happened
In 2020, Mr A was put on furlough, so he arranged a payment holiday for his HSBC loan.
However, HSBC recorded one of his payment holiday months as a missed payment on his 
credit file. They also wrote to Mr A and called him, chasing him to repay his arrears. Even 
when Mr A spoke to HSBC about this and they promised to stop the calls, the calls 
continued.
HSBC explained that despite the payment holiday, they were required to send the written 
arrears notices when they didnt receive payments. They accepted theyd recorded things 
wrong on Mr As credit file. They offered him compensation equivalent to one months 
repayment  a little over £150. They eventually fixed his credit file.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and felt HSBC had already put their 
mistake right fairly.
Mr A didnt agree, so the complaint was been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr A and HSBC a provisional decision on 10 February 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr A was already in a very stressful situation when he arranged this payment holiday. So 
I can completely understand why it was then particularly distressing to receive repeated calls 
and letters telling him he was in arrears.
To explain, under the rules HSBC have to follow, they were required to send the written 
arrears notices to Mr A when he didnt make a payment  even though he was on a payment 
holiday. Those rules were written some time ago and dont take account of payment holidays 
for the pandemic. So HSBC didnt do anything inherently wrong by sending the written 
notices  they were required to send them. I appreciate this is not intuitive.
With that said, Id have expected HSBC to explain things clearly in their arrears letters and to 
give Mr A suitable context. For example, they could have made it clear that they were only 
sending the arrears notices because they had to, that they knew Mr A was on a payment 
holiday, and that he didnt need to worry as he wasnt actually behind. But I cant see that 
they did anything like that. They just sent notices with standard wording, and in doing so 
HSBC caused unnecessary distress and confusion.
Further, I understand that HSBC were regularly calling Mr A chasing him for repayments  
despite his payment holiday. HSBC were certainly not required to do that and I think that 
was a substantial error on their part. I can see that Mr A repeatedly explained things to 
HSBCs advisers and was told the calls would stop, but it looks like they did not stop for 
some time. I gather this was particularly stressful for Mr A.
And of course, both sides accept that HSBC should not have recorded any missed payments 
on Mr As credit file during his payment holiday. Again, I can see that Mr A had to raise this 
issue repeatedly before it was finally fixed in early 2021. Thats not an acceptable timeframe.
Mr A pointed out that hes still getting written arrears notices, so hes concerned his credit file 
may still be incorrect. Ive looked at what HSBC are reporting, and I can see his account is 
marked as up to date with no missed payments. So I hope I can reassure Mr A that there are 
no arrears on his credit file for this loan. As above, HSBC are just sending him arrears 
notices because theyre technically required to  as he didnt make payments for several 
months under his payment holiday. But so long as Mr A keeps up his repayments now and 
doesnt actually fall behind, he can essentially ignore those notices.
So, I think HSBC got things wrong here in terms of not explaining the notices, calling Mr A to 
pursue him, and recording things incorrectly on his credit file for months on end. When a 
business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to acknowledge their 
errors and the impact they had. In terms of the amount, its worth bearing in mind that were 
not here to punish businesses or to issue large fines.
Im glad that HSBC offered Mr A some compensation. But I dont think the amount they 
offered quite reflects the level of trouble and upset they caused for Mr A in an already 
stressful situation, nor the months it took to fix things. We have guidelines about what levels 
of compensation to award. And to be consistent with those, I think £400 total compensation 
would better reflect the impact this had on Mr A.
Of course, if HSBC has already paid Mr A their previous offer, they can take that off the £400 
total.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
10 March 2022. Mr A didnt add anything further. HSBC said while they didnt agree with 
everything Id said, they nevertheless would accept the proposed settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.My final decision
For the reasons set out, I uphold Mr As complaint, and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay him 
£400 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman