DRN-3607433
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding the 
handling of the closure of an account she held jointly with her ex-husband.
What happened
Ms R held a joint current account with her ex-husband from whom she was in the process of 
separating. Ms R was concerned that her ex-husband would use the account maliciously to 
cause her credit file to be adversely impacted. Ms R therefore informed her relationship 
manager (RM) of the marital separation and asked for the account to be frozen and for her 
to clear half the balance owing on the account and to then no longer be associated with it.
Barclays RM explained that the nature of the joint account was that both parties were jointly 
and severally liable for the account, and then tried to negotiate individually with Ms R and 
her ex-husband for both parties to pay half the balance outstanding on the account, so that 
the account could then be closed.
This is what eventually happened, but in the months leading to the closure of the account the 
balance of the account had exceeded the agreed overdraft and had been reported as such 
on Ms Rs credit file. Ms R wasnt happy about this, especially as avoiding having her credit 
file adversely impacted had been one of her concerns when contacting Barclays about the 
account. So, she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Ms Rs complaint. But they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Ms R in how theyd managed the situation, and the noted that theyd 
sent letters to Ms R informing her that the balance of the account had exceeded the 
overdraft when it first happened and several times afterwards.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly towards Ms R in reporting the status of the account to her credit file, but they 
felt that some of the communication that Barclays had engaged in with Ms R hadnt been to 
the standard that Ms R should reasonably expect. So, they recommended that this complaint 
be upheld in Ms Rs favour on that limited basis, and that Barclays should make a payment 
of £75 to Ms R to compensate her for the standard of communication shed received.
Ms R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In situations where joint account holders are separating, a business such as Barclays can 
find itself in a delicate position. On the one hand, its right that a business should do what it 
can to assist its customers and prevent the joint account being used maliciously by one of its 
customers against the other  as Ms R feared might happen in this instance. While on the 
other hand, the business has to continue to administer the account on a joint and several 
liability basis - until the account holders take the steps necessary to change that basis.
This means that the business has to work fairly with its two customers to enable their 
financial separation to take place, while at the same time continuing to administer the joint 
account appropriately until the situation can be resolved. 
However, it must also be acknowledged that in circumstances such as this, where two 
people are separating from each other, a person such as Ms R can be significantly impacted 
by the events taking place such that they should potentially be considered as being 
vulnerable at that time.
In such circumstances, both empathy and clarity of communication from the business to the 
customer are of utmost importance, so that the customer feels that their fears and concerns 
have been heard during what can potentially be a particularly traumatic time in their life.
This again places a business such as Barclays in the difficult position of having to 
communicate with their customer in a way that balances their administrative duties and the 
limit of the remit of their role against the duty of care that they have for their customer and 
the help and assistance that they should reasonably provide.
Having reviewed all the information and evidence available to me, I think that for the most 
part, Barclays did that here. And I say this because I feel that Barclays act reasonably in how 
they administered this ongoing situation, including that they attempted to liaise with both Ms 
R and her ex-husband separately to arrange for both parties to repay equal halves of the 
account balance so that the joint account could be closed, and because I feel that their 
communication with Ms R was, in general, balanced fairly.
For instance, while I appreciate that Ms R is unhappy that Barclays have reported the status 
of the joint account as having exceeded the agreed overdraft limit to the credit reference 
agencies, Im satisfied that Barclays did provide continuing notification to Ms R that the 
balance of the account had exceeded, and continued to exceed, the agreed overdraft limit.
And while I can appreciate that Ms R was engaged in an acrimonious separation from her 
ex-husband at that time  such that she was only willing to make the payment of half of the 
outstanding account balance on the condition that her husband simultaneously made a 
similar payment so that the account could immediately be closed  this unfortunately doesnt 
alter the fact that the account was over its agreed overdraft limit or that Barclays, like all 
providers of credit, had an obligation to accurately report the ongoing status of the joint 
account to the credit reference agencies.
Im aware that Ms R feels that her RM, with whom she was corresponding with regularly 
during this time, didnt provide the assurances in their communications with Ms M that she 
was seeking, and that had these assurances been provided  as Ms R feels that they 
reasonably should have been  that she would have made the payment to the account 
sooner, meaning that the account would have been brought back within the agreed overdraft 
sooner and that consequently she wouldnt have incurred the length of adverse credit 
reporting that she has.
I can appreciate Ms Rs position here, but having read the email chain between herself and 
her RM I feel that the RM was sufficiently clear throughout that communication that the 
account would be closed following the receipt of the necessary payments from her ex-
husband and herself. And while I can understand why Ms R wanted this point to be 
reiterated and confirmed, I feel that the RM did explain on several occasions that the account would be closed when both payments were received.
Ms R has also explained that had it been explained sooner by the RM that the account could 
be closed immediately following the repayment of the outstanding balance that she would 
have made the full payment herself so that the account could have been closed much 
sooner than was actually the case.
Im not convinced by Ms Rs position here, and I say this because its very clear from Ms Rs 
correspondence that she was only willing to make a payment equal to half the balance 
outstanding on the account on the condition that her ex-husband made a similar payment. 
Indeed, in several emails to Barclays, Ms R stipulates that shed only be willing to make such 
a payment after her ex-husband has paid half of the balance outstanding himself. And while I 
can appreciate why Ms R would be cautious, I find it difficult to accept, given the obvious 
strength of Ms Rs feeling here, that she would have been willing to have paid the balance 
outstanding in full as she now contends. 
Ultimately, in regard to the administration of the account, I dont feel that Barclays have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms R here, but instead feel that they did make 
attempts to liaise with both Ms R and her ex-husband to arrange the equal repayment of the 
account balance by both parties. 
Furthermore, I feel that Barclays did keep Ms R informed as to the balance of the joint 
account  which it must be noted that Ms R as an account holder had an obligation to 
monitor herself. And despite the extenuating circumstances at that time, given that Ms R 
didnt clear or reduce the balance of the account following the agreed overdraft limit being 
exceeded, and given the joint and several liability basis of the account, it seems both fair and 
reasonable to me that Barclays would make the accurate reports as to the ongoing status of 
that account to the credit reference agencies as they have. 
And I also must note that the option remained available to Ms R to have made a relatively 
small payment to the account to have brought the balance of the account back within the 
agreed overdraft limit, which would have positively impacted the subsequent reporting of that 
account to her credit file.
But while Im satisfied that Barclays have administered the joint account fairly here, I do feel 
that some of the communication and correspondence that Barclays issued to Ms R fell below 
the standard of what Ms R should reasonably have expected.
In particular, its notable that when Ms R first approached her RM and advised of the dispute 
with her ex-husband, that the RM told Ms R that the account couldnt be frozen  which was 
incorrect and in contradiction to the advice given on Barclays website. This led Ms R to 
engage her legal representatives to contact Barclays on her behalf. And while the account 
was frozen shortly afterwards, I dont doubt that the RMs apparent lack of understanding of 
Barclays own processes was both concerning and upsetting for Ms R, at that difficult time.
Im aware that Ms R feels the delay in the account being frozen led to the account balance 
being taken over the agreed overdraft limit by her ex-husband, and I note that a transaction 
by Ms Rs ex-husband did take the balance over the agreed overdraft limit the day before the 
RM first responded to Ms R advising incorrectly that the account couldnt be frozen.
But given that the account had been taken over the agreed overdraft limit the day before the 
RM responded to Ms R, it seems that even had the RM frozen the account on the day they 
first responded, as they reasonably should have, that the account would still have been over 
the agreed overdraft limit at that time, having been taken over that limit the day before.And while Ms R has stated that she made the RM aware of the marital dispute some weeks 
earlier than that time, Barclays have no record of having been advised as such by Ms R at 
any earlier date, and theres nothing in the documents or evidence provided by either Ms R 
or Barclays which corroborates Ms Rs position on this matter.
Consequently, I dont feel that I can fairly or impartially declare that the delay in freezing the 
account by Barclays did lead to the account balance exceeding the agreed overdraft limit as 
Ms R contends. So, while I do feel that the incorrect information given to Ms R by the RM 
would have been distressing for Ms R such that compensation for that distress is merited in 
this instance, I dont feel that it can be considered to have caused any direct financial loss to 
Ms R, for the reasons explained above.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. But the  
£75 compensation amount recommended by our investigator does feel fair to me here, given 
the circumstances, and given that this amount is to compensate Ms S for the upset she may 
have incurred because of the provision of the incorrect information only, and isnt for 
anything additional or further to that.
Finally, Im aware that Ms R would like this service to investigate whether her ex-husbands 
credit file has incurred the same adverse reporting as her own credit file. But the remit of this 
service is limited to investigating the potential impact of the events in question on the 
complainant party, which in this case is Ms R. As such, the impact or potential non-impact of 
events to Ms Rs husband lies outside the remit of what this service can consider.
All of which means that Ill be upholding this complaint in Ms Rs favour on the limit basis 
explained above and instructing Barclays to make a payment of £75 to Ms R. I realise that 
this wont be the outcome Ms R was wanting and I can sympathise with the difficult personal 
circumstances she clearly experienced here. But I hope that Ms R will understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £75 to Ms R as compensation for the trouble and upset 
she incurred at having being initially incorrectly told that the joint account couldnt be frozen.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman