DRN-3128758
The complaint
Mr G complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) mishandled his
motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr G had a previous policy with a previous insurer. That came to an end in November 2020.
For the year from 9 January 2021, Mr G, through a broker, took out a policy with Watford.
On 3 February 2021, Watford received information about the cancellation of the previous
insurers policy. Acting on that information, Watford cancelled its policy.
Mr G provided information to Watford showing that he  rather than the previous insurer -
had cancelled the previous policy. He complained to Watford that it had caused him stress
and loss of work. By a final response dated 8 February 2021, Watford said it had reinstated
its policy. Mr G brought his complaint to us in mid-March.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator said that complaint-handling alone isnt a regulated activity, so its not
something he could look into separately from the complaint itself.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that
Watford had acted unfairly or unreasonably. He thought that Watford had acted in line with
the information it had received, and within the terms of the account. He said Watford
responded to Mr G in a reasonable timeframe.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G  
and to Watford on  5 October  2021. I summarise my findings:
By an immediate cancellation that Id found unfair  Watford caused Mr G distress 
and inconvenience including the loss of use of his car for a few days.
Mr G hadnt given us any evidence about his usual journey to work, his earnings or 
his entitlement to paid leave from work. So there wasnt enough evidence to show a 
loss of earnings.
Subject to any further information from Mr G or from Watford, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to pay Mr G £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr G has responded to the provisional decision. He says has sent us a payslip from around 
the time he was working, before his  insurance was cancelled. He says this shows a guide to 
how much he  lost in earnings whilst he was unable to get to work.
Watford disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
The Underwriter acted upon evidence from the previous insurer that Mr G had failed 
to declare a previous policy cancellation. This would be a significant 
misrepresentation which makes the policy unacceptable to the Underwriter. As such, 
the Underwriter was entitled to exercise their right to cancel the policy with immediate 
effect and was not required to give 7 days notice of cancellation.
If the Underwriter finds out about a significant misrepresentation where cover would 
not have been granted but issues a 7-day notice of cancellation, and so effectively 
has agreed to allow the policyholder to remain on cover for the interim 7 days, there 
would then be the argument that any claim which did arise during that period would 
be covered. The Underwriter would be in the position that while they could have 
taken immediate action to remove the policy from cover, in accordance with the 
Policy Wording, they would have chosen not to do so. Therefore, the policy must be 
correctly cancelled immediately the unacceptable misrepresentation is discovered.
There is also an unacceptable increased risk of fraud where someone who is found 
to have mispresented information is on cover. This is again why the policy is 
cancelled immediately in such circumstances.
It remains that any compensation is only payable by the previous insurer as it was 
their information the Underwriter acted, correctly, upon. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im dealing with Mr Gs complaint against Watford. I make no findings against the previous
insurer.
Ive looked at the proposal form when Mr G took out the Watford policy. He said he was a
full-time delivery driver for a postal delivery service. The proposal form recorded the
following question and answer:
have you:-
i) a) had a policy cancelled, made void, renewal refused, proposal declined or had
any special conditions applied? No
From Watfords underwriting criteria, Im satisfied that it wouldnt have offered cover to
anyone who had previously had a policy cancelled by another insurer.
Watfords policy terms included the following:
Our Cancellation Rights
During the Period of Insurance
We have the right to cancel Your Policy at any time by giving You seven days notice
in writing where there is an exceptional or valid reason for doing so. We will send Our
cancellation letter to the latest address We have for You and will set out the reason
for cancellation in Our letter. Exceptional or valid reasons may include but are not
limited to:
a. Where We have been unable to collect a premium payment
b. Where You are required in accordance with the Terms of this Policy Wording
document to co-operate with Us, or send Us information or documentation and Youfail to do so
c. Where We do not receive evidence of Your No Claim Bonus, licences for all
drivers named on Your Policy or any other valid requests to support the accuracy of
information You gave Us
d. Where You do not take care of Your Car
e. Where necessary to comply with any applicable laws or regulations.
f. If We decide for reasons of strategy or cost that it is no longer viable for Us to
continue to provide cover within the particular country or market sector
g. In the unlikely event that for any of the reasons listed in Section 15 - General
Exclusions Applying to the Whole Policy - We expect to experience unsustainable
losses for the particular country or market sector
, We have the right to cancel Your Policy immediately, at any time during
the Period of Insurance, where there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing
so. We will still send Our cancellation letter to the latest postal or email address We
have for You and will set out the reason for cancellation in Our letter. Valid reasons
allowing Us to immediately cancel may include but are not limited to:
a) Where You deliberately or recklessly tell Us something which is untrue or
misleading in response to any question We ask You when You take out cover
b) Where You have carelessly misrepresented relevant information which, if correctly
represented at the time of application, would have caused Us to decline Your
application for cover.
c) Where We have evidence of fraud or dishonesty.
d) Where We have evidence of abusive or threatening behaviour.
e) If We discover that Your Car is currently impounded by any government or public
authority.
f) Not having paid or agreeing to pay the premium.
g) If You are in breach of any of the Terms, Exceptions, Exclusions, Conditions or
Endorsements contained in or endorsed upon this Policy.
h) In the event that Your Car has been deemed a total loss or has been stolen and
not recovered but You have not changed the vehicle insured
So  to paraphrase  Watfords policy term said it could give seven days notice to cancel
where there was an exceptional or valid reason (of which it gave examples); alternatively, it
could cancel immediately where there was evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing so
(of which it gave other examples).
However, cancellation has serious consequences for a policyholder . So I expect an
insurance company to give seven days notice of cancellation. 
Notwithstanding Watfords policy term providing for immediate cancellation, I expect an 
insurance company which has evidence of misrepresentation to follow the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). That may allow 
cancellation with immediate effect - and indeed retrospective effect. 
On 3 February 2021, Watford saw a database entry and asked the previous insurer about it.
That insurer sent an email including the following:
He was cancelled on 3rd Nov 2020 as he failed to pay the agreed amount on time.
Watford wasnt responsible for the information on the database or the information from the
previous insurer. It had no reason to doubt the accuracy of that information on 3 February 
2021.
But Watford couldve asked Mr G for comment and/or it couldve sent a seven-day notice.
Instead, Watford mustve taken the view that Mr G had (carelessly or worse) failed todisclose that his previous insurer had cancelled his policy  in which case Watford wouldve
declined cover. So Watford cancelled his policy immediately.
Watford had already contacted the previous insurer, so I wouldnt expect Watford to do so
again. I consider it inevitable that that Mr G had to contact the previous insurer and Watford.
On 4 and 5 February, Mr G emailed Watford with evidence from the previous insurer that it
was he who had cancelled the policy. From that evidence Im satisfied that Mr G hadnt
made any misrepresentation to Watford about the cancellation of his previous policy.
As 5 February 2021 was a Friday, Im satisfied that Watford acted reasonably promptly by
reinstating the policy and writing a final response on Monday 8 February 2021.
However, I consider that this sequence of events demonstrates that a seven-day notice
wouldve been fair and reasonable, and an immediate cancellation wasnt. If Watford had
sent a seven-day notice, then Mr G wouldve provided his evidence within that seven days
and Watford wouldnt have cancelled the policy.
I accept that the reinstatement had the effect that there was never any gap in cover. But that
effect was retrospective. It was no comfort to Mr G between 3 and 8 February 2021 when he 
didnt dare to use his car.
Mr G has provided us with a payslip for the period ended 17 January 2021. But he still hasnt 
given us any evidence about his usual journey to work or his entitlement to paid leave from 
work. So theres still not enough evidence to show that the cancellation of his insurance in 
early February 2021 caused him a loss of earnings.
 
Putting things right
But I dont doubt that  by an immediate cancellation that Ive found unfair  Watford caused
Mr G distress and inconvenience including the loss of use of his car for a few days. Overall
I find that £100.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for this.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to pay Mr G £100.00 for distress and
inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman