DRN-3566997
The complaint
Miss W has complained that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA wont refund a transaction she 
says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In May 2021, a payment of about £10 was made to Uber Eats using Miss Ws PayPal 
account.
Miss W said she didnt recognise this. It showed up on her transaction history as Uber, and 
she explained she didnt use their taxi service. She also provided her Uber Eats history, 
which didnt list an order of that amount from around that time.
PayPal held Miss W liable for the payment in dispute. They explained it was to Uber Eats 
rather than Ubers taxi service, and they found it had been made in the same way as 
Miss Ws previous genuine Uber Eats payments, authorised via her mobile phone.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly, PayPal have to refund the payment in dispute if the evidence suggests that it was 
not authorised. Or they can hold Miss W liable for the payment if the evidence suggests that 
she did authorise it.
Im satisfied from PayPals technical evidence that the payment in dispute used Miss Ws 
genuine account, which was registered to the same email address she used to communicate 
with our service. The transaction was made having logged in to her account with her correct 
username and password. And it used two-factor authentication via a push notification on her 
registered mobile phone.
I can confirm that the payment went to Uber Eats in the same way as Miss Ws previous 
Uber Eats payments. It was not a payment for the Uber taxi service, though I can understand 
why there might have been some confusion.
Its unclear how anyone other than Miss W would have been able to learn her PayPal 
username and password, and then access her phone, without her permission and without 
her noticing.
Looking at the details of the payment, theres nothing to suggest that Miss Ws account was 
compromised or accessed without her consent. And it seems rather unlikely and implausible 
that a fraudster would crack that level of security and gain possession of Miss Ws phone, 
only to buy £10 worth of food and then give her phone back.
On the other hand, since the payment was made using Miss Ws genuine account  having 
logged in with her correct details  and was authenticated with her mobile phone, its very 
likely and plausible that this was a payment which Miss W authorised  either by making it 
herself or by giving someone else permission to make it for her. That would also fit with her 
genuine payments to Uber Eats both before and after this one, which were authenticated in 
much the same fashion.
Its not clear why this order didnt show up on Miss Ws Uber Eats order history. For 
example, it may have just been left off the history due to an error on Uber Eats end, or 
perhaps Miss W paid for food on a friends Uber Eats account and no longer recalls doing 
so, and so on. But as a financial ombudsman, I do not have the power to investigate Uber 
Eats. I can only look into PayPal, as theyre a financial business. Im here to determine 
whether PayPal need to refund Miss W or not, based on whether the evidence suggests that 
she authorised the payment or not. And from the evidence at hand, it is most likely that 
Miss W authorised this payment  though I can understand if she no longer remembers 
doing so given the small amount.
If Miss W would like to pursue things further with Uber Eats, I could only suggest that she 
takes this up with them directly instead. But when it comes to PayPal, I cant see that they 
got things wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman