DRN-3878429
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is refusing to refund him the amount 
he lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr G was in contact with a business (X) in May 2020 that promised him very 
high returns if he was to invest with it. Persuaded by the potential of high returns Mr G 
started to invest sending money through the legitimate cryptocurrency exchange (Coinbase). 
Mr G paid a total of £21,169.66 over many payments to Coinbase by debit card and transfer, 
that he has been unable to recover.
Our Investigator considered Mr Gs complaint but thought Barclays decision not to refund 
the payments made in relation to the scam was fair. Mr G disagreed, he said Barclays 
should have done more to protect him from the scam and should therefore refund him for his 
loss. 
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr G made in relation to this 
scam to Coinbase using his debit card.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr G was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr G didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Coinbase). This is important because Barclays was only able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant he paid (Coinbase), not another party (such as X).
The service provided by Coinbase would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Gs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Coinbase provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr G paid. As Coinbase provided 
the requested service to Mr G any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
The payments Mr G made in relation to the scam from his Barclays account via transfer 
were also unable to be refunded in accordance with the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) because the CRM code does not apply to payments to and from accounts in the 
same persons name as was the case in this scenario.
Mr G has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Coinbase, so the starting point 
here is that Mr G is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Barclays should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments Mr G was making.
The history of Mr Gs account shows that he started making relatively low payments to 
Coinbase at the beginning of the scam. The payments Mr G is disputing were also made 
over the course of almost 12 months. 
It wouldnt be reasonable for me to suggest Barclays fraud prevention systems should be 
triggered every time one of its customers makes relatively small payments to legitimate 
businesses as was the case here. And as time went by Mr G made more and more 
payments to Coinbase which built a pattern showing Mr G trusted the business he was 
paying. 
In addition, Mr G received relatively frequent credits from Coinbase which would not cause 
Barclays to be concerned. 
Mr G did make some larger payments later during the time the scam was taking place but by 
this time his account showed he had been paying Coinbase for many months with no issues, 
so I dont think it was unreasonable that the later payments didnt trigger Barclays Fraud 
prevention systems either. 
Its clear from Mr Gs statements that he was making payments to Coinbase before and after 
the scam took place which also shows he continued to trust the platform.
Overall, I think it was reasonable that the payments Mr G was making in relation to this scam 
didnt trigger Barclays fraud prevention systems. So, I dont think it missed an opportunity to 
step in and prevent the scam from taking place and it doesnt have to refund any of the 
payments Mr G made.
In addition to the above Barclays has provided a call recording to our service. During the call 
Mr G explains he is investing for other people through Coinbase as they dont have their own 
accounts. We are only able to consider Mr Gs direct loss, not that of other people he has 
helped through his Coinbase account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman