DRN-3467808
The complaint
Mr R complains about Skrill Limiteds decision to close his account and charge him fees to 
withdraw his money.
What happened
Mr R opened a Skrill account in September 2019. In April 2020, Skrill reviewed Mr Rs
account and asked for further information as part of their routine Know Your Customer (KYC)
checks. Mr R provided the information Skrill asked for, and following this, Skrill made the
decision to close Mr Rs account.
Mr R had a remaining balance left in the account and Skrill informed him in June 2020, that
he was able to withdraw it. Mr R attempted to withdraw the money left in his account and
learned that limits applied to the withdrawal amount and the withdrawal was subject to a fee.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Skrill should charge Mr R the withdrawal
fees despite it forming part of their terms and conditions.
Skrill responded to our investigators view and disagreed. They said they were happy for
Mr R to withdraw the money in any means he wanted, but the withdrawal would be subject to
the applicable fees. Skrill explained that the fees form part of the contract with Skrill and all
customers are subject to paying fees.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to review.
In March 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
The account block and closure
Skrill has important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing accounts
to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only relate to when an account is
opened. To comply with their obligations, Skrill may need to review an account and/or
restrict access. I can see thats whats happened with Mr Rs account.
Skrill decided to close Mr Rs account following their review. Im unable to share the full
reasons of why Skrill took the action they did with Mr Rs account. But Id like to reassure
Mr R that based on the information and evidence Ive seen, I think Skrill were reasonable
when deciding to end the relationship. Skrill sometimes choose to end their relationship with
customers - this can be due to a number of reasons and they arent obliged to give a reason
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr R decided to end the agreement with Skrill and use
another provider, he wouldnt have to explain why.
Im satisfied Skrill complied with the terms and conditions when closing Mr Rs account, and
Im pleased to see they referred to the specific terms they relied on within their
correspondence to Mr R. Because of that, I cant fairly uphold Mr Rs complaint on this point.
The money left in Mr Rs account
In June 2020, Skrill confirmed the money left in Mr Rs account was available to withdraw to
a bank account in his name.
Mr R attempted to withdraw the money and found out there was a limit to the amount he
could withdraw in one single transaction  and that the withdrawal was subject to a fee. I
understand Mr R is unhappy about this. Ive reviewed the terms of the account which Mr R
would have agreed to when opening his Skrill account. Im satisfied the fees form part of this
agreement. Ive then gone on to consider whether the fees are clearly presented to
customers. Having reviewed the relevant fees section on Skrills website, I find the
information clearly shows what fee will be charged depending on whether a customer is
making a deposit, or withdrawal  and the relevant fee linked to the specific currency.
The terms of Mr Rs Skrill account which are relevant here:
12.4. Withdrawals are subject to fees including currency conversion fees (if
applicable). Please see section 13 for details.
13.2. Transaction related fees can be viewed at any time in the "Fees" section of our
Website.
13.3. Your transactions may be subject to currency conversions.
13.6. Fees payable by you will be deducted from your Skrill Account balance and you
hereby authorise us to do the same. Transaction fees will be charged when the
transaction is executed. If your Skrill Account balance is insufficient to cover the fees,
we may refuse to execute the payment. Reversal or chargeback fees will be
deducted when incurred.
I recognise Mr R feels Skrill charging him a fee is unfair  but I cant reasonably agree with
him. Mr R accepted the terms of the Skrill account when he opened it  and I find the fees
structure to be clear so I cant fairly ask Skrill to waive the fees for Mr R. I appreciate Mr R is
concerned due to the fee being charged to every withdrawal he makes  however as the fee
is calculated on a percentage of the total withdrawal amount, I dont find this to make Mr R at
any loss. If Mr R paid the fee on a larger withdrawal amount, the fee overall would be higher
 so by making smaller withdrawals with smaller fees means Mr R is in the same position as
he would be if he withdrew the balance at once.
Overall, Im satisfied Skrill were entitled to review and subsequently close Mr Rs account.
And while I recognise the inconvenience of Mr R having to pay fees to withdraw his money
from the account, Im satisfied Skrill are entitled to charge them based on the terms of the
account. Therefore, based on the evidence Ive seen so far, Im unlikely to ask Skrill to do
anything differently.
Mr R responded to my provisional decision. In summary, he said he agreed with the terms 
that Skrill could charge withdrawal fees and current conversion fees. But stated that when he 
initially tried to make a withdrawal, Skrill attempted to charge a 4.49% fee which he felt was 
unfair. Mr R also asked that Skrill pay him interest to recognise the loss of use of the money 
for around two years.
I sent Mr Rs comments to Skrill for their further comments. Skrill confirmed there is a flat fee 
for withdrawals of 5.50 EUR  which at the time equated to 6.05 USD. However, withdrawals 
to a card incur a 7.5% fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Skrill to do anything differently as I dont agree theyve 
acted unreasonably.
In summary, Ive explained above why Skrill were entitled to end their banking relationship 
with Mr R in the way they did. They complied with their terms and conditions when doing so, 
and while I cant share the full details with Mr R, Im satisfied, based on the evidence which 
has been presented to me, that Skrills decision was reasonable.
Ive considered the further comments from both Mr R and Skrill, and I havent seen that 
Skrills charging structure has changed from when Mr R initially raised his complaint. Skrill 
have fees in place for both withdrawing moneys, and for converting money. Im satisfied 
these fees are clearly presented in the account terms, and more specifically, Im satisfied 
Mr R agreed to these terms when opening his Skrill account. Therefore, I see no reason to 
depart from my initial findings on this point.
I appreciate Mr R has presented calculations to show what he feels he will be entitled to. Its 
not my duty to confirm whether these calculations are correct or not. And I feel its also 
important to point out that any currency conversion rate could change at any time which 
wouldnt necessarily be in Skrills control.
If Mr R decides to withdraw his money via bank transfer, Im satisfied Skrill are entitled to 
apply and charge the withdrawal fee. The money will then be converted into Mr Rs chosen 
currency, and the relevant currency conversion fee will be applied and charged. The 
remaining money will then be transferred to Mr R  and he should be able to see the total 
amount available to transfer before he confirms the withdrawal. Based on the full 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont find it reasonable to ask Skrill to waive any of these 
fees.
I also recognise Mr R would like Skrill to pay interest to recognise the time hes been without 
his money. I havent seen anything to persuade me that Skrill have withheld the money from 
Mr R and therefore Mr R could have withdrawn his money at any time. I appreciate Mr R 
may have wanted to wait until his complaint had concluded before withdrawing the money, 
but I cant fairly hold Skrill responsible for that. In order for me to uphold Mr Rs complaint on 
this point, Id need to be satisfied Skrill withheld Mr Rs money from him unfairly  and they 
havent. Therefore, I cant reasonably ask Skrill to add interest  or any compensation  to 
the amount Mr R withdraws.
Overall, Im satisfied Skrill were entitled to close Mr Rs account and apply withdrawal fees to 
the amount left in Mr Rs account. I find their fees are clearly presented and I leave it to Mr R 
to decide when and how he withdraws his money. I find no reason to ask Skrill to waive any 
fees or add any additional interest or compensation to the amount Mr R withdraws.
My final decision
For the reasons explained both above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr R
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman