DRN-3691237
The complaint
Mr H complains that Schroder Unit Trusts Limited have failed to adequately answer the 
queries he has raised about his stocks and shares ISA. He says this has caused disruption 
to his personal and financial affairs and he has suffered distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr H has raised several queries with Schroders in relation to the administration of his 
investment. He contacted this service in February 2022 to inform us he wanted us to 
investigate his concerns about Schroders. 
One of our investigators sought to clarify the nature of the complaint Mr H wanted us to 
consider as it wasnt immediately clear to her. She informed both Mr H and Schroder from 
the information she had reviewed, her understanding of the issues to be considered under 
this complaint were that:
- Mr H is unhappy with Schroder using an outsourcer to send him information. Also, a 
package arrived damaged and correspondence was incorrectly addressed.
- During a call on 21 January 2022 Mr H was referred to as sir and he asked for this 
not to happen.
- Mr H hasnt been sent the call recordings he requested in a format he can access.
Schroders issued a final response to Mr H. In summary it said:
- It had sent a package to him directly in February 2022 enclosing Subject Access 
Request information. This left undamaged and was delivered via the Royal Mail. It 
has no control over the handling of mail once it has left its premises. It apologised if 
the letter was incorrectly addressed but noted it didnt prevent the package being 
delivered.
- Its letter of 24 January 2022 was issued by an outsourcing company on its behalf. 
Because this letter was issued by a special delivery method, a Royal Mail sticker was 
attached to the envelope that had a pre-printed reference to the outsourcing 
company. It said it was sorry that this caused Mr H to return the letter. But it was 
reissued by normal post on 31 January 2022.
- It didnt find that its call handler referred to Mr H as sir during the telephone call on 
21 January 2022. 
- Its call recordings are held in digital format, and the easiest and most secure way to 
access recording is by sending a secure link via email. But as Mr H doesnt have an 
email address it is happy to consider any reasonable requests for alternative 
methods of delivery.
Mr H didnt agree with the response Schroders sent. As no resolution could be found, one of 
our investigators looked into the complaint. She issued an assessment to Mr H that didnt 
uphold the complaint. In summary:
- She didnt find that Schroder was at fault for the damaged package Mr H says he 
received in the post. 
- She also didnt find it had done anything wrong in using an outsourcing company to 
send information to him. 
- She listened to the call Mr H had with Schroder in January 2022. She acknowledged 
the call handler had found it challenging to answer Mr Hs queries, but overall found it 
had been handled correctly and Mr H wasnt referred to as sir during the call. 
- The investigator thought Schroder should explore the ways it can provide call 
recordings to customers like Mr H to prevent digital exclusion for people that dont 
use the internet. But she didnt think there has been any detriment to him by not 
receiving the calls. She offered to send the call considered on this complaint by CD 
to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings. He maintained that Schroder has made 
errors and are at fault. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed 
to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has been difficult to understand precisely what Mr Hs concerns are. Our investigator set 
out her understanding of what is being considered and Mr H hasnt provided a clear 
response to this say this is incorrect. So, for that reason Ive considered the complaint on the 
basis of the issues that our investigator has set out to the parties, as described in the 
background to this decision. 
Ive considered the submissions provided to me by Mr H and Schroders  having done so 
Ive independently reached the same conclusion as our investigator - that this complaint 
should not be uphold. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Ive considered the issues relating to the receipt of post. There isnt much in the way 
of evidence provided in relation to the package Schroder sent to Mr H in February 2022.  
While I cant be certain how the damage Mr H mentioned occurred, it seems possible this 
was while the package was in transit through the mailing system. But in any case, I havent 
seen anything that would lead me to think Schroder were at fault here. Ive noted Mr H 
raised concerns about the package being addressed incorrectly - but he did receive the 
package, so I dont think this has caused him any detriment. For these reasons I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint. 
Schroder says it does use an outsourcing company to send post to its customers on 
occasion. It appears this is what happened when Mr H was sent a package in January 2022. 
As Mr H noticed reference on the package to a third party, he sent it back. While it is 
unfortunate that Mr H felt the need to return the package, I dont find anything wrong as such 
with Schroder using a third party to send information to its customers. And the information 
was re-sent to Mr H directly by Schroder within a week, so again I dont find there is any 
material detriment here.
Ive listened to the 21 January 2022 telephone call. Under our rules, Im unable to consider 
complaints that relate solely to complaint handling, but I can consider complaints that are 
ancillary to an underlying financial service. It isnt clear whether Mr Hs concerns about this 
call are solely about complaint handling. But even if it is something I can consider; I havent 
found Schroder at fault for the way the call was handled. The call was passed through to the 
complaints team. Unfortunately, after this the call wasnt productive as the handler was 
unable to satisfy the questions Mr H raised despite making reasonable attempts to do so. I 
didnt find that Mr H was referred to as Sir during the call. Overall, I dont think there were 
material failings in the way the call was handled.  I appreciate Mr H may see things 
differently but Im not going to ask Schroder to do anything further. Lastly, Ive considered the issue relating to sending call recordings to Mr H. I understand Mr 
H wasnt able to obtain the calls he requested as he doesnt have an email address that 
could be used to receive the digital format Schroder intended to send them by. I agree with 
our investigator, that Schroder should explore alternative ways to send the calls to Mr H. But 
ultimately, I dont think not receiving the calls has prevented him from raising his concerns.  
Overall, Im satisfied Schroder dealt with Mr Hs queries appropriately and havent found that 
it needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman