DRN-2765227
The complaint
Mr S complains that, when Trading 212 UK Limited corrected an error on his account, it led 
to a financial loss. He also complains that Trading 212 blocked his account for four days, 
then closed his account with no reason.
What happened
Mr S had a trading account with Trading 212. One of the holdings, (which I will call C) in his 
Invest account was subject to a 200:1 stock split in April 2020. Mr S held 10,936 shares. 
After the stock split he held 54 new shares.
But, the day after the stock split, his account wrongly showed the old number of shares at 
the new price. The value of his holding was therefore over-stated by around £160,000.
Mr S says he was unaware of the stock split and thought hed made a profit on his holding. 
He decided to sell his holding of C shares to realise the profit. He then decided to withdraw 
some money, and to reinvest around £66,000  he made four purchases in his Invest 
account, two purchases in his ISA account and two purchases in his CFD account.
Later that same day, Trading 212 phoned him to explain what had happened. It said it 
couldnt fulfil his sale order, as he only held 54 shares, that his withdrawal had been 
rejected, and that the purchases would be cancelled.
Mr S says that, whilst correcting its error, Trading 212 blocked his account. He says when he 
was given access to his account again, Trading 212 had taken more money from his 
account, not just the over-stated profit on C shares. 
Trading 212 didnt uphold his complaint and said that Mr S still owed it £343.36 but had 
decided not to pursue this. Shortly afterwards it gave Mr S 14 days notice that it was closing 
his account.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Trading 212 
had acted in line with its terms and conditions in closing the account. But he said 
Trading 212 hadnt treated Mr S fairly when it corrected its error. He said Trading 212 had 
sold investments in Mr Ss account to reverse his reinvestment, but that this had led to a loss 
which should be reimbursed.
Trading 212 didnt agree. It didnt think it should be liable for the losses made due to market 
movements. It said it didnt owe Mr S any money and that, if the ombudsman disagreed, the 
ombudsman should provide the final settlement figure, as the amount Mr S says he is owed 
has fluctuated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find Trading 212 made a mistake. Its systems did not show the correct number of shares 
for Mr Ss holding of C shares after the stock split.
I dont find its fair that Mr S should benefit from Trading 212s mistake. And hes accepted 
this. It follows that I find Trading 212 acted fairly in rejecting Mr Ss withdrawal request and 
cancelling his reinvestments. But, when a business makes a mistake, it should take action to 
put the consumer back in the position they would have been in if the mistake hadnt 
happened. When Trading 212 sold the reinvestments Mr S had made, it told us that, due to 
market movements, this resulted in a loss in Mr Ss invest account of £5,041.35. It says this 
is simply a trading loss made by Mr S. I dont agree, and Ill explain why.
If Trading 212 hadnt made a mistake, Mr S would not have been able to invest the sums he 
did in his invest account. When Trading 212 realised it had made a mistake, it didnt give 
Mr S the opportunity to fund his account to meet the reinvestment cost; it told him it would 
reverse the transactions on his account. This meant Mr S had no control over the timing of 
the sales. I agree with our investigator that the losses made were as a result of Trading 212 
correcting his account following its error. I dont find it fair or reasonable that Mr S should 
have to incur this loss.
Trading 212 has asked that I tell it how much it has to pay Mr S because the amount Mr S is 
claiming has changed. Im not surprised Mr S has found it difficult to work out what he might 
be owed as Trading 212 hasnt been clear about the transactions it carried out. On several 
occasions during our investigation it has asked for Mr S to provide his figures, rather than 
providing us with its calculations to show exactly what happened here and exactly what it did 
to try to put things right. But it has told us that the losses incurred on the sales it carried out 
on Mr Ss Invest account amounted to £5,041.35. So I find this is the amount it should pay 
Mr S.
Mr S says, whilst it was correcting its mistake, Trading 212 blocked his account and that he 
lost the opportunity to trade. But he hasnt provided us with any specific trades that he 
wanted to make during that period, so I dont find theres enough evidence for me to 
conclude that the blocking of his account led to a financial loss that he should be 
compensated for. 
Shortly after sending Mr S its final response, Trading 212 gave him notice that it was closing 
his account. I find that it acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions in providing Mr S 
with 14 days closure notice. Mr S had tried to benefit from Trading 212s mistake. He says 
he wasnt aware that Cs shares had been subject to a stock split. That may be so. But 
I think he reasonably must have realised that it was very unlikely his shares had increased 
overnight by such a huge percentage and that he reasonably should have taken steps to 
check this before trying to realise the profit. Overall, I dont find Trading 212 treated Mr S 
unfairly or unreasonably in closing his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that Trading 212 UK Limited should pay Mr S £5,041.35.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman