DRN-4435809
The complaint
Mr S complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned down his claim on his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S holds a travel insurance policy through his packaged bank account. The policy is 
provided by Aviva. Mr S booked to travel to another country for a few days, hed also booked 
a hire car to use while he was there. 
Unfortunately, when Mr S arrived at the destination airport his hire car didnt turn up. Mr S 
said he called and messaged the hire care company for around an hour but didnt get a 
response. He therefore hired another car from a different provider. Mr S therefore contacted 
Aviva to claim on his policy for the additional costs he incurred due to the original hire car not 
turning up. 
Aviva reviewed the claim and turned it down. It said the policy didnt provide cover for 
anything not specifically described in the policy. Mr S didnt think this was fair and referred 
his complaint here. He said the travel disruption section should cover his claim. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found the 
travel disruption section didnt specify it provided cover for Mr Ss claim and so didnt think 
Aviva had acted unreasonably in declining the claim. Mr S didnt agree, he thought the travel 
disruption section did provide cover and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As Mr S didnt agree with our investigator the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion within the policy which Aviva has relied upon to decline the claim says: any 
loss that is not specifically described in this policy. Mr S disagreed and said his claim is 
covered within the travel disruption section, hes specifically referred to points 3 and 4 within 
that section. 
The section in the policy which covers travel disruption says:
Well cover unexpected additional travel and accommodation costs to 
allow the insured person to continue their trip or to get home at the end of 
their trip, if their pre-paid travel plans are disrupted for the following 
reasons:
3. the insured persons travel or accommodation provider becomes 
insolvent
4. the insured persons pre-booked travel arrangements are cancelled or 
delayed for more than 12 hours from the time shown on their ticket or 
diverted after departure
Ive considered this term and focused on the two parts which Mr S thinks should cover his 
claim. 
For point 3 to cover the claim the provider would need to become insolvent. From the 
information provided there isnt anything to show the hire car provider became insolvent and 
so Im not persuaded that Mr Ss claim falls within point 3. 
Ive also considered point 4, and while I can see why Mr S may think this section of the 
policy covers his claim, Im not persuaded it does. I say this because the hire car provider 
hasnt cancelled or delayed the hire car. It didnt turn up within an hour of the agreed time, so 
Mr S hired another car. So without anything to show the hire car was actually cancelled Im 
not persuaded this section covers this claim. 
Aviva has said the policy doesnt cover this situation and I agree. I appreciate this isnt the 
outcome Mr S was hoping for, but Im not persuaded Aviva has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining his claim.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman