DRN-3808139
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Cabot Credit Management Group 
Limited sent it letters to the wrong address, then denied this, as well as making an error with 
the amount of debt outstanding. 
What happened
S borrowed money from a peer-to-peer lender. Ss director says she asked for all 
correspondence about the loan to be sent to her personal address. 
S defaulted on the loan during the pandemic and the loan was sold to Cabot in early 2022. 
In February 2022, Cabot wrote to S introducing themselves as the new lender and giving the 
outstanding balance. The balance quoted was too high and the letter was addressed to the 
companys business address, rather than the directors personal address. 
In March 2022, S complained about the letter being sent to the business address. Cabot 
didnt reply until 28 June 2022, by which time they had sent a second letter to the same 
address. 
Cabots response to the complaint incorrectly said that no letters had been sent to the 
business address, so they hadnt done anything wrong. 
Ss director asked the Financial Ombudsman to look into what had happened. She said that 
Cabots error had resulted in the first letter being opened by one of her managers, who 
became concerned about the stability of the company and left as a result. S therefore 
wanted compensation to cover the costs of recruiting, onboarding and training a new 
manager. 
One of our investigators looked into things, but didnt think Cabot needed to do anything 
further to put things right. She said this because she considered the issue with the address 
wasnt their fault and they had already corrected it on their records, as well as correcting 
their error with the balance. 
S's director asked for an ombudsman to look at things again. She said that Cabot had 
effectively accused her of lying, which had been very upsetting. Also, as well as the costs 
relating to the manager recruitment, she had been unable to refinance the loan when she 
refinanced Ss other borrowing, because of the error with the balance. She said S could 
have been in a position to pay back Cabots loan completely, thereby improving the 
business cashflow.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Cabot has made some errors. But I agree with our investigator 
that they dont need to do anything more to put things right. There are a number of things 
that have gone wrong here. So Ill consider them in turn. 
First, Cabots February 2022 letter quoted an outstanding balance of around £36,000, which 
was incorrect. The actual balance was around 30% lower at approximately £26,000. Cabot 
corrected this four months later and apologised for it in their June 2022 letter, which began 
Were sorry, weve made a mistake.  
It's disappointing that it took Cabot so long to identify this error, but I am pleased to see that 
when they did realise it, they apologised and gave the correct figure. In its most recent 
correspondence, S has told us that this error impacted the business post-COVID 
refinancing. Ss director said that she applied for a refinancing loan and this might have 
been accepted at the correct level had I had the correct figures  I did not. 
I appreciate that the business has been through a difficult period in the pandemic. But I 
would expect a business to keep track of its debt levels, especially if it was in the process of 
arranging a crucial refinancing. Even if S failed to notice the sizeable discrepancy in Cabots 
letter, I would expect S to have obtained an up-to-date figure whilst seeking refinancing, at 
which point I think the error would have come to light. I also note that S's director says that 
the refinancing loan might have been accepted. In other words, the additional £10,000 might 
have made a difference. But this might well not have been the case. 
On balance, I think S could reasonably have avoided any consequences of this error by 
checking. And its unclear that it would have changed the outcome of the refinancing. So I 
dont think it would be fair to expect Cabot to compensate for that. I consider Cabots 
apology is sufficient to put things right. 
Second, both Cabots first letter with the balance error and the second one correcting and 
apologising for the error were not addressed in accordance with the business previous 
request. This was the main thrust of Ss original complaint. Ss director says that this 
resulted in the loss of a manager from the business, thereby incurring costs in recruiting a 
new one. 
The evidence Ive seen suggests that Cabot wasnt aware of any request not to use the 
business address for correspondence. In my view, it wouldnt be fair to hold them 
responsible for information not passed on by the previous lending platform. In addition, S's 
director suggested that the manager had been upset by the tone of the letter, but I dont 
think there to be anything wrong with the tone, which is factual and clear. I think it more likely 
than not that the managers decision to leave was based on a number of factors, not just one 
piece of correspondence. I therefore dont think it would be fair to award compensation for 
this issue. 
Theres a dispute between the parties as to whether the envelopes that went to the business 
address were marked Private and Confidential or not. As neither side has shown me any 
evidence, I dont think I can reasonably reach a finding on this, but I dont think it makes any 
difference. 
Third, instead of apologising for this error, Cabots complaint investigation, which took 
around three months, somehow failed to identify any letters addressed to the business. This 
was clearly a flawed investigation and seems to stem from the fact that Cabots complaint 
handler thought they had only written to the guarantors not the business itself. 
Cabot have confirmed to us that this complaint response was inaccurate and told me they 
regret the difficulties this caused.I am surprised to see that, as far as Im aware, Cabot havent written to Ss director to 
apologise for their flawed complaint investigation and give a correct outcome.   
Cabots communications in this case have included repeated mistakes and their actions in 
correcting their errors have been very slow. However, Im led to believe the errors have now 
been corrected and their records have been changed to show that all correspondence 
should go to the directors home address. More recent correspondence, such as the letter of 
28 July, does suggest that this is now happening in accordance with the directors wishes. 
S, a limited company, is the entity entitled to refer this complaint to us. As a limited company, 
it cannot be distressed and Im afraid I dont have the power to award compensation for 
distress experienced by its directors. A limited company can be inconvenienced. But I 
havent been persuaded that any of Cabots errors have caused sufficient inconvenience to 
S to warrant compensation. So Im not going to direct Cabot to do anything further. 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding this complaint against Cabot Credit 
Management Group Limited, but Im not going to direct them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman