DRN-3660806
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly declined to process a 
chargeback and a claim made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In December 2021, Mr G booked a hotel using an online travel agency, who Ill refer to as E. 
After doing so, he read reviews of the hotel which were less than complimentary. And he felt 
these showed it wasnt four stars as advertised. So he asked E to cancel his booking, but 
they refused to refund him.
As hed paid for the hotel using his credit card, Mr G contacted Halifax to see if it could help.
Halifax initially said it couldnt raise a chargeback because Mr G was outside the 120-day 
time limit. Mr G disputed this, as hed only made the booking a few days beforehand. Halifax 
acknowledged it had made a mistake. It raised the chargeback, but E defended it and 
provided evidence that the transactions were non-refundable. Because of this, Halifax said 
there were no chargeback rights under the card schemes rules.
Halifax also said a claim couldnt be made under section 75 of the CCA because there was a 
break in the debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) chain, which meant section 75 didnt apply.
Mr G made a complaint about the outcome of the chargeback and section 75 process. He 
was also unhappy with the service provided, the amount of time hed spent on the phone 
and that his email address had been blocked by Halifaxs system.
Halifax acknowledged that it had provided poor service and given incorrect information 
initially on why a chargeback couldnt be processed. So it paid Mr G compensation of £25, 
plus £36 towards call costs. In addition, it refunded the £129.60 for the hotel booking as a 
gesture of goodwill. But it denied blocking Mr Gs email address.
But Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome. He didnt agree there was a break in the DCS 
chain as he considered E to be the supplier of the services, rather than the hotel itself. So he 
feels Halifax shouldve refunded the hotel costs as a result of a successful claim, rather than 
as a gesture of goodwill. He also felt the compensation offered didnt reflect the hassle hed 
been caused, and he wants an additional £250.
Mr G brought his complaint to our service and asked that we look into the actions of both E 
and Halifax. Our investigator explained that we cant investigate a complaint against E 
because they fall outside of our jurisdiction. She looked into the complaint against Halifax but 
didnt uphold it, as she was satisfied it hadnt done anything wrong or unfair.
As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision 
which said:
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator on the chargeback and section 75 
complaints and for broadly the same reasons. But I intend to uphold the customer service 
complaint. Ill explain why below.
To clarify, this decision relates solely to the complaint against Halifax. I will not be 
commenting on the actions of E as they fall outside of our remit for the reasons our 
investigator has already explained.
Chargeback
The chargeback process enables the card issuer  in this case, Halifax  to settle disputes 
between a customer and a merchant, provided that the circumstances of the dispute fall 
within the scheme rules.
The rules are set by the card scheme operator, whose symbol is on the card. And its for 
Halifax to review the evidence and decide whether the claim falls within them. If it doesnt, or 
if Halifax thinks the claim is unlikely to succeed, then it may decide not to raise it. Theres no 
automatic right to a chargeback, nor is it a guaranteed method of getting a refund.
Halifax acknowledges that it incorrectly declined Mr Gs chargeback request initially, when it 
said the claim was outside the 120-day time limit. So I dont need to decide whether it did 
something wrong here  it did. What I need to decide is whether it did enough to put things 
right.
Where a business has done something wrong, Id expect it to put the customer back in the 
situation they wouldve been in had everything been done correctly. In this case, once 
Halifax was notified of its error, it went on to raise the chargeback to E, thereby putting Mr G 
back in the position he wouldve been in had his chargeback not been declined.
Halifax says, in hindsight, the chargeback shouldnt have been attempted as there were no
chargeback rights under the card schemes rules because the transaction was non-
refundable. Having reviewed the rules, Im satisfied this is the case as I cant find an 
applicable rule that the claim could be made under given the service had been provided and 
there was no right to a refund on cancellation.
Because of this, Im persuaded Halifax made a fair decision not to pursue the chargeback 
any further after E defended it. I appreciate Mr G was unhappy about this but, as Ive 
explained above, Halifax dont set the scheme rules and its not obligated to raise or pursue 
a chargeback if it doesnt consider it appropriate to do so.
Section 75
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers who have paid for goods or services on a credit 
card to claim against their credit provider for any breach of contract or misrepresentation on 
the part of the supplier of the goods or services, so long as certain technical conditions have 
been met  one of which is that there must be the required relationship between the debtor, 
creditor, and supplier.
Halifax declined Mr Gs claim because, in its view, there was a break in the DCS chain. It 
said Mr G (the debtor) paid using his Halifax credit card (the creditor) to E who then paid the 
hotel (the supplier of the services). Its the involvement of E which causes the break in the 
chain.
Mr G doesnt agree as he believes E are the supplier of the services and that it was E who 
misrepresented the hotel as four stars.From the information Ive seen, the hotel is the supplier of the services that Mr G paid for. I 
say this because he paid for a hotel room and E isnt supplying this, neither was E acting as 
an agent or representative for the hotel. As Mr G didnt pay the hotel directly, there is a break 
in the DCS chain.
That said, as our investigator identified, there is a valid DCS chain between Mr G and E 
regarding the services E provided. So Mr G is correct that he has a valid DCS chain with E. I 
cant see that Halifax identified this possible claim, so I can understand why Mr G is 
frustrated with the decision made. I dont think this error warrants a payment of 
compensation, but I have thought about what the outcome of this claim wouldve been had 
Halifax correctly considered it.
In order for this claim to be successful under section 75, it would need to be established that 
there was a breach of contract and / or misrepresentation by E. Mr G says E misrepresented 
the hotel as four stars when the reviews, in his opinion, clearly show that it isnt. He also 
says E has breached the contract by failing to provide a refund.
Star ratings are based on what services the hotel provides as well as inspections carried out 
by independent bodies on the quality of those services.
Having looked at the hotel itself, it has been given a four-star rating. So the information E 
has provided is factually correct and not misrepresented. Im not persuaded that because the 
hotel had received poor reviews it wasnt four stars. And Im mindful that E did provide links 
to those reviews alongside the hotel information, to give customers the full picture to make 
an informed decision on whether or not to book a stay.
Ive also considered whether theres been a breach of contract by E. But I cant see that 
there has been. E provided clear information in its contract with Mr G that the transaction 
was non-refundable. So their decision not to refund him wouldnt amount to a breach of 
contract, as there was no expressed or implied term to say it would.
Because of this, Im not persuaded that had Halifax considered a section 75 claim against E, 
it wouldve been successful.
In any event, Halifax reimbursed Mr G the cost of the hotel booking as a gesture of goodwill. 
So he isnt out of pocket. From what Ive seen, Halifax didnt have to do this. And Im not 
asking it to do anything more.
Customer service
To apologise for the error of declining Mr Gs chargeback claim incorrectly, Halifax paid £25 
compensation which I think fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience he wouldve 
experienced for the short time he thought his claim had been declined. As Ive said above, 
Halifax went on to consider the chargeback claim, putting Mr G back in the position he 
wouldve been in had it been handled correctly.
Halifax also paid £36 towards the cost of Mr Gs calls that he wouldnt have had to make had 
it not declined the claim. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.
But Halifax said it didnt block Mr Gs email address. And on further review, that isnt quite 
right. Halifax has now confirmed that the whole domain name of one of Mr Gs email 
addresses is blocked on its systems because it receives a high volume of malware from this 
domain. Whilst this isnt specific to Mr Gs email account in isolation, it has caused his emails 
from this address to be blocked.Mr G has emailed from another account, which were successfully delivered. But an email he 
sent on 25 January 2022 didnt go through. Halifax now say its because the domain name of 
his other email address was detected in the body of this email, which caused its systems to 
block it.
Whilst its understandable why Halifax has made the decision to block this domain, its 
unclear why it didnt explain this to Mr G when he raised his complaint. He had delivery 
failures for emails hed sent from both accounts, but Halifax didnt investigate why this had 
occurred, rather it insisted there wasnt an issue on its side. 
Had it looked into things at the time, Mr G wouldve been aware that he couldnt contact 
Halifax using that particular email account. And this wouldve prevented further emails being 
sent and not delivered. For this, I do think further compensation is warranted and Im inclined 
to award Mr G a further £50 compensation for what went wrong here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and had no further submissions for 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding the complaint and direct Bank of Scotland
plc trading as Halifax to pay additional compensation of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman