DRN-2397033
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Lloyds Bank PLCs response to his complaint after he fell victim to a 
scam. It declined to reimburse the money he lost after being tricked into sending £20,000 to 
accounts controlled by a fraudster. 
What happened
On 2 September 2019 Mr S, who was 73 at the time, received a telephone call from 
someone claiming to be calling from Lloyds fraud team. The caller was actually a fraudster.
The fraudster told Mr S someone had tried to move £3,000 from his account and they 
suspected it was someone who worked at Lloyds. After warning Mr S about fraud and 
scams, the fraudster assured Mr S that theyd been able to stop him from losing the £3,000, 
but that they needed Mr Ss help to catch the fraudster. The fraudster explained what this 
would involve over a phone call that lasted about an hour and a half. The fraudster told Mr S 
theyd freeze his account and copy it, and then theyd ask him to authorise payments from 
the copied account, which would help them identify who the fraudster at Lloyds was. They 
led Mr S to believe he wouldnt actually be sending any of his own money. 
Its not clear exactly how the fraudster would be identified as Mr S can no longer remember 
the finer detail and admits that due to his age and the length of the telephone call he found it 
difficult to concentrate on everything that was being said. But he does remember the 
fraudster telling him that if the payment went through, theyd know who the corrupt employee 
was. 
Mr S believed the caller saved him from losing £3,000 and so he was quite willing to help. 
But he asked the caller how he could be sure he was calling from Lloyds. The caller told him 
that all he needed to do was check the number displayed on his phone was the same as the 
number on the back of his bank card. Mr S says that sure enough, they were identical. Mr S 
recalls the fraudster was softly spoken, polite and seemed well educated. He also 
remembers the fraudster knew a lot about the processes and procedures Lloyds had in 
place to protect people from fraud. Mr S, as a result, was convinced he was talking to 
Lloyds.
The fraudster asked Mr S to make an initial payment of £7,500. Mr S attempted to make the 
payment via online banking and was shown a warning which Ill set out later on in this 
decision. The payment didnt go through and Mr S was required to call Lloyds in order for the 
payment to be processed. The fraudster told Mr S whoever took the call at Lloyds would be 
a corrupt employee. The fraudster explained he should ignore any warnings he was given 
and that he shouldnt tell anyone else about the fraud operation as it wouldnt work. 
Mr S called Lloyds. Lloyds spoke to Mr S for around 15 minutes and asked him a number of 
questions to validate the payment and his identity. The call handler provided warnings about 
the type of scam Mr S was affected by. Ultimately the call handler advised Mr S would need 
to go into branch with ID in order to complete the payment. 
The fraudster explained that hed put a note on Mr Ss account which would instruct the 
person he dealt with in branch to call a certain telephone number. The fraudster told Mr S 
the fraud operation was in hand and to ignore any warnings Lloyds staff provided.
Mr S went into branch the following morning. He kept the fraudster on his mobile phone 
while he was there  concealing the phone in his pocket. Mr S recalls that branch staff told 
him they could see a note on his account about the payment he wanted to make and that 
theyd need to call through to another department in order to complete the payment. This 
reinforced Mr Ss belief that he really was assisting in a fraud operation. 
Branch staff put Mr S through to Lloyds genuine fraud team. The call handler read out a 
script which warned Mr S about the type of scam he was affected by, and asked Mr S what 
the payment was for. Mr S told them he was moving the money to his account with another 
bank. The caller asked Mr S whether the purpose was to move funds to a savings account or 
to get a better interest rate. Mr S replied that it was to get a better interest rate. Lloyds asked 
Mr S some other questions, such as whether he had been asked by someone else to make 
the payment, to which Mr S said he had not. And whether hed received any suspicious calls 
or calls from someone claiming to be the bank - Mr S said he hadnt. Mr S was then able to 
make the payment of £7,500 at 10.40.
After leaving the branch the fraudster asked Mr S whether hed got the name of the man 
hed spoken to on the phone while he was in branch. When Mr S said he had not, the 
fraudster told him to make another payment and to make sure he got the name of the person 
he spoke to this time, otherwise they wouldnt be able to identify the fraudster. 
At 11.16 Mr S made another payment of £7500 to the fraudster, to another new payee, and 
at 11.52 he made a further payment of £5000  these payments were made online and its 
my understanding there was no contact between Mr S and Lloyds. Mr S can no longer 
remember why he was asked to make the third payment given the time that has since 
passed, but throughout he believed he was assisting a fraud operation and was regularly 
reassured that he was speaking to the genuine Lloyds fraud team because of the number 
they were calling from.
Mr S attempted to make a fourth payment of £3,100 and Lloyds did make enquiries about 
this payment before processing it. Mr S told Lloyds he was buying a car which hed seen and 
test driven. Lloyds warned Mr S about safe account scams again and this time the call 
handler explained that fraudsters could spoof Lloyds genuine telephone number  they can 
make the banks number appear on your phone. That catches most people out. Upon 
hearing this, it dawned on Mr S that hed fallen victim to a scam.
 
Unfortunately Lloyds was only able to recover £7,500 of the £20,000 Mr S had sent to the 
fraudster. 
Mr S complained to Lloyds about the money hed lost  he felt Lloyds ought to reimburse 
him.  
In its final response Lloyds explained that it wasnt upholding Mr Ss complaint because he 
had failed to verify the caller was from Lloyds and had disregarded the warnings it had 
provided before making the payments. It therefore felt Mr S hadnt met his requisite level of 
care under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code and so it wasnt liable for his 
loss.
Unhappy with Lloyds response Mr S referred his complaint to us. An investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She felt Lloyds ought to have 
reimbursed Mr S as the warnings werent effective in the circumstances given the fraudster 
had manipulated and coached him through the whole payment journey. She felt for any 
warning to have made a difference here the impact would have needed to exceed that of the 
fraudster whod already gained his trust and coached him through the whole process. 
Mr S accepted the investigators opinion, but Lloyds didnt.
It made the following key points:
Mr S had received an unsolicited call and made payments he wasnt expecting to 
make. 
Mr S didnt question whether it was reasonable for a large organisation to have its 
own process in place to investigate fraudulent colleague behaviour. 
The explaination the fraudster provided regarding a frozen account didnt make 
sense as he had to authorise the payments 
The warnings it had provided were relevant  Mr S had recieved an unexpected 
phone call from someone pretending to be the bank and had been asked to set up a 
new payee, and asked to move money to an external holding account
It is not possible that both members of Lloyds staff Mr S spoke to could have been 
the fraudster
Mr S lied to Lloyds about the purpose of the payment and didnt answer the 
questions it asked him honestly
As Lloyds didnt agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the 
Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model for Authorised Push Payment 
Scams (the CRM Code).
Lloyds is a signatory of the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
Lloyds says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
I have thought carefully about how the CRM Code applies to the payments Mr S made. 
The application of the CRM Code to Mr Ss case  effective warningsLloyds says that it is entitled not to reimburse Mr S under the provisions of the CRM Code 
because he disregarded the warnings it gave him when he made three payments totalling 
£20,000 out of his account.
Given the provisions of the CRM Code, Ive considered:
1. Whether the warning(s) Lloyds gave Mr S were effective warnings given in 
compliance with SF1(2)?
2. If so, whether Mr S ignored those effective warnings by failing to take appropriate 
action in response to the warnings? 
I will consider each question below. If Lloyds cannot establish that each requirement has 
been met, then the exception to reimbursement does not apply under the provisions of the 
CRM Code. 
1. Were the warnings Lloyds gave Mr S effective warnings given in compliance with 
SF1(2)?
SF1(2) says:
Where Firms identify APP scam risks in a Payment Journey, they should take
reasonable steps to provide their Customers with Effective Warnings, which should
include appropriate actions for those Customers to take to protect themselves from
APP scams.
(a) Firms should take reasonable steps to make their Customers aware of general
actions that could be taken to reduce the risk of falling victim to an APP scam
(b) Where the Firm identifies an APP scam risk, it should provide Effective Warnings to
customers. This may occur in one or more of the following:
(i) when setting up a new payee
(ii) when amending an existing payee; and/or
(iii) during the Payment Journey, including immediately before the Customer authorises
the payment, before the Customers account is debited
(c) Effective Warnings should be risk based and, where possible, tailored to the APP
scam risk indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through the user
interface with which the Customer is initiating the payment instructions
(d) Effective Warnings should enable the Customer to understand what actions they
need to take to address the risk, such as more appropriate payment methods which
may have additional protections, and the consequences of not doing so.
(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the Customer
(ii) Clear - in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in Principle 7 of
the FCAs Principles for Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner whereby the
likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should include steps to
ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the consequences of
continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have impact on the
Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by analytics
during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the Customer.
I am satisfied that under the CRM Code, whether or not a warning is effective in compliance 
with SF1(2) will depend on a number of factors:
The warning must as a minimum meet the UCITS criteria (understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific).  As these are minimum criteria, it may be necessary  for the warning to do more than just meet the UCITS requirements to amount to an 
effective warning  it would not be an effective warning if the information provided did 
not give the customer a better chance to protect themselves against being 
defrauded. 
The warning should include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect 
themselves from APP scams and they should enable customers to understand what 
actions they need to take to address the risk of APP fraud, such as more appropriate 
payment methods which may have additional protections and the consequences of 
not doing so.
In this case Lloyds predominantly provided Mr S with warnings that aimed to prevent him 
falling victim to an impersonation scam; the type of scam Mr S fell victim to. 
 
Its recognised that these types of scams have common features. For example, but not 
limited to: 
the consumer is often kept on the phone to the fraudster while they make the 
payment
it is common for fraudsters to spoof the number of genuine organisations 
the consumer is often coached in some way  such as on how to make the payment, 
what to ignore, what to say to the bank if necessary
the scammer often instills a sense of pressure and fear, with consumers feeling as 
though they need to act quickly in order to protect themselves from harm
its common for the scammer to have already obtained information about the 
consumers bank account(s), which adds credibiity and persuades the consumer the 
call is legitimate 
the consumer is told their assistance is required to help catch a corrupt bank 
employee
the scammer often has a good understanding of the processes banks follow which 
again adds credibility.
Ive thought carefully about these features when considering whether Lloyds provided 
effective warnings in line with SF1(2).
Mr S was given various warnings by Lloyds  online written warnings before he made every 
payment, and warnings over the telephone on two occasions before he made the first 
payment.
Lloyds provided the following online banking warning:
Fraud warning  paying someone unexpected?
If Mr S had clicked on that (its unclear whether he did or not) hed have been presented with 
the following warning:
SUSPICIOUS CALLS
If youve been called unexpectedly and asked to make a payment this could be a scam.
Fraudsters may pretend to be from your bank, the police or well-known companies. They do 
this to gain access to your money. 
Never do any of the following for an unexpected caller:
set up a new payee
move money to a safe/ secure/ holding account
download anything to your device
To find out more download our suspicious calls information.If in any doubt do not continue with this payment. Better safe than sorry.
Lloyds also provided warnings over the telephone during two calls prior to processing the 
first payment. During both calls Mr S was also asked a number of questions  the purpose of 
some of those questions was to try to uncover whether Mr S might be the victim of a scam 
and they also formed part and parcel of the warnings Lloyds provided.
Ive considered all the warnings Lloyds provided very carefully, but Im not persuaded they 
were sufficiently impactful to amount to effective warnings. A warning would have to be likely 
to break the trust and belief the fraudster has created through social engineering to be 
impactful. I am not persuaded it is more likely than not that the warnings Lloyds provided in 
this case would positively affect customer decision making in the way required by the CRM 
Code. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that:
The substantive online warning  if seen by the customer - talks about scammers 
pretending to be your bank or other well-known companies. And the verbal warnings 
explained that fraudsters can claim to be from your bank. Im not persuaded the 
average customer would understand that pretending or claiming to be your bank or 
other well-known companies could amount to someone managing to spoof the 
genuine organisations telephone number. This feature and tactic is well recognised 
by firms, but the warnings didnt, in my view, do enough to highlight the level of 
sophistication involved in pretending  such as telephone number spoofing. This 
means that a customer wouldnt be able to appreciate the risk that they might not be 
talking to a genuine organisation, even when the callers number belongs to that 
genuine organisation. Number spoofing is why scams such as this are so successful 
 this is something Im satisfed Lloyds was aware of  and yet Im not satisfied this 
information was shared within the warnings. 
In my view none of the warnings included appropriate action for a customer to take to 
address the risk of APP fraud. The online warnings set out that customers are able to 
download suspicious calls information or, if theyre in any doubt theyre advised not to 
continue with the payment, but I dont think this is adequate. I think the suggested 
action or steps a customer could take should be contained within the body of the 
warning in order to be impactful in the moment  particularly when bearing in mind 
that more often than not the customer is on the phone to the fraudster being coached 
through these warnings at the point they see them. Its unrealistic to expect 
customers to download information in this situation. 
In order for the warnings to meet the Code definition of an effective warning, it should 
set out the consequences of not taking the suggested steps in the warning. Im not 
satisfied the online warnings did this. Even though the online warning explains that if 
youre in any doubt dont continue with the payment, and better to be safe than 
sorry, I dont think this is enough to warn customers that they are at risk of losing 
their money. And a customer would need to have some doubt about the legitimacy of 
the transaction in order for the warning to resonate with them. 
In my view effective warnings would need to be impactful enough to overcome, or at least 
attempt to overcome, the typical features of the type of scam it was seeking to prevent. As 
Ive explained, a common feature of this type of scam is that the customer believes their 
helping the bank catch a corrupt employee. This means the customer is automatically 
distrustful of the genuine bank employee because of trust and belief they have in what the 
fraudster has told them. I dont think the warnings did enough to combat this distrust for the 
reasons Ive explained. 
 Overall, in this particular case, while I accept Lloyds did take steps to warn Mr S about 
impersonation scams, I dont think the warnings Lloyds provided were strong enough to 
break the spell of the type of scam Mr S fell victim to and so Im not persuaded it provided 
effective warnings in compliance with SF1(2). This means the effective warning exception 
does not apply. 
2. Whether Mr S ignored that effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in 
response to the warning?
For completeness I have considered whether Mr S failed to take appropriate action in 
response to the warnings he received given the particular circumstances of the APP fraud he 
fell victim to.
From Mr Ss perspective, by the time he saw and heard the warnings he was convinced he 
was talking to his bank. This was because: 
the scammer had spoofed Lloydss genuine telephone number  which Mr S had 
verified as being correct by checking the back of his bank card 
the scammer seemed to know information about his accounts and Lloyds banking 
processes which he thought only Lloyds would know
The scammer attempted to educate Mr S about scams and told him hed prevented 
Mr S losing £3,000.
I accept Mr S had been contacted unexpectedly and asked to transfer money and so he 
ought reasonably to have identified with the warnings to some extent. 
But Mr S recalls the call handler pre-empted everything that happened  such as that 
warnings would appear, that the payment would likely contradict Lloyds security policy, that 
hed probably need to go into branch to finish making the payment etc. This reinforced Mr 
Ss belief that he must be speaking to a Lloyds employee. He was told what would appear 
and what he should do in response. 
Its clear from Lloyds and Mr Ss submissions just how powerful the number spoofing had 
been in enabling Mr S to fall victim to the scam. When Mr S attempted to make a fourth 
payment and Lloyds brought to life telephone number spoofing, only then did it dawn on Mr 
S what had happened.
Because, as Ive previously explained, the warnings didnt contain any information about the 
possibility of number spoofing, Mr S trusted everything the fraudster told him about the 
payments hed be making and the process he needed to follow. Im satisfied it didnt occur to 
Mr S that fraudsters could use such sophisticated techniques in order to pretend to be a be 
your bank. 
Its also relevant that Mr S believed he was helping catch a fraudster and that he didnt 
understand the money he was sending really belonged to him. This meant he was less 
inclined to heed warnings or believe or listen to what genuine Lloyds staff had to say given 
hed been led to believe they could be the person that was embarking in fraudulent 
behaviour. It also meant the warnings had less relevance to his situation. Mr S admits Lloyds 
gave him warnings but says I was sure that I was helping catch a scammer and so I can 
understand why Mr S didnt necessarily think the warnings applied to his situation.
This belief led Mr S to give dishonest answers in response to some of Lloyds questions. I 
accept this hampered Lloyds from protecting him and uncovering the scam to some extent. 
But Im mindful a lot of the questions Lloyd asked were closed or leading questions, and Im 
not persuaded Mr S would always have understood the significance of the questions he was 
asked. For example, Mr S was asked whether he was on the phone to someone else at the same time as speaking to Lloyds  but in this particular case, I dont think Mr S wouldve 
understood this to be the red flag that banks understand it to be. In the circumstances, and 
taking into account how the warnings Lloyds provided fell short, I dont think Mr S acted 
unreasonably here. 
Taking all of this into account, overall, I am not persuaded that Mr S failed to take 
appropriate action in all the circumstances of this complaint.  Im satisfied Mr S did not have 
any idea he wasnt talking to his bank. Im also persuaded Mr S had taken steps to verify it 
was his genuine bank and did as the fraudster  whom he believed to be from Lloyds - told 
him to do. Customers do tend to follow the instructions banks give them  particularly when it 
comes to concerns about fraudulent activity on their account  this is another reason why 
these types of impersonation scams are so successful. 
In the circumstances and given how the scam unfolded, I do not think Mr S acted 
unreasonably so as to fail to take appropriate action in response to the warnings he was 
given.  
The application of the CRM Code to Mr Ss case  reasonable basis for belief
Im satisfied Mr S had a reasonable basis for belief that he was making payments following 
Lloydss instructions for the following reasons:
Im persuaded Mr S checked the telephone number of the caller against the number 
on the back of his debit card which satisfied him the caller was genuinely calling from 
Lloyds.
Im satisfied Mr S wasnt aware of number spoofing until he attempted to make the 
fourth payment to the fraudster.
The fraudster had a thorough knowledge of Lloyds banking processes. Mr S recalls 
the fraudster knew which payments were likely to flag as requiring extra checks and 
what was likely to happen in branch. It seems to me that what the fraudster told Mr S 
would happen, happened  reinforcing his belief he was talking to the bank. 
Lloyds has said Mr S ought to have questionned whether it would be reasonable for 
Lloyds to have its own processes in place to investigate fraudulent colleague 
behaviour but I dont agree. I dont think its reasonable to assume Mr S, or other 
customers, would understand or think about what governance processes are likely to 
be in place in order to tackle internal fraud or corruption.
Lloyds has also said that the explanation the fraudster provided regarding freezing 
his account didnt make sense given he authorised the payments. While I can accept 
that those familiar with financial services might think this sounds odd, its important to 
remember Mr S quite understandably, for the reasons Ive explained, believed he 
was talking to Lloyds, and so therefore believed what they told him about his 
accounts. I dont think the fraudsters explanation was so implausible that Mr S ought 
to have questionned what was going on more carefully  Mr S wasnt to know what 
was possible when it came to combating fraud. 
Lloyds has also said that both Lloyds colleagues that he spoke to could not have 
been fraudsters. Ultimately Mr S was coached and manipulated into believing that 
anyone he spoke to at Lloyds could be the fraudster and everything he did was 
assisting a fraud operation. As he believed he was talking to Lloyds, I can understand 
why he accepted what the fraudster told him. 
Mr S was 73 at the time of the scam and I think his age is a relevant factor here. Mr S 
has said the fraudster kept him on the phone for an hour and a half the first time he 
called, called multiple times thereafter, and remained on the phone to Mr S when he 
completed the payments. Mr S, by his own admission, found it difficult to concentrate 
on everything that was being said and take in the true consequences of the situation 
he found himself in. In the circumstances I think this is understandable  this is a deliberate tactic fraudsters use to maximise the chance of the scam being successful 
as it prevents their victim of the opportunity for calm reflection.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Mr S did not make the payments without a 
reasonable basis for belief that he was following his banks instructions.
And for completeness, for the reasons I have already set out I am not persuaded Mr S was 
grossly negligent.
Could Lloyds have done anything else to prevent the scam?
I am mindful that when Mr S made these payments Lloyds should fairly and reasonably also 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps before 
processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im satisfied Lloyds recognised this given it intervened when Mr S attempted to make the first 
payment to the fraudster. So Ive thought about whether Lloyds did enough during the 
conversation it had with Mr S over the phone and in branch before it processed the first 
payment he made.
Ive already explained why I dont think the warnings Lloyds provided were impactful enough 
and the conversation that occurred with Mr S also couldve been better. The conversations 
relied fairly heavily on scripts and the questions Mr S was asked were often closed, or he 
was given a choice of responses which prevented Mr S from having to think on his feet too 
much. 
 
For example  during the first call with Lloyds, Mr S was asked where hed got the account 
details that he wanted to pay from and, rather than let him answer, the call handler asked 
him whether he got those details from a card or a statement, or something else  leading Mr 
S to respond a statement. And during the second call with Lloyds, the call handler, upon 
understanding Mr S wanted to move money to an account with another bank, asked Mr S 
the purpose of the payment and provided suggestions such as moving money to a savings 
account or to get a better in interest rate  Mr S responded with a better interest rate.
Lloyds ought to have recognised there remained a possibility that Mr S mightve been 
providing a cover story or answering dishonestly  it is widely accepted that a common 
feature of scam related transactions is that customers are persuaded not to tell the truth. 
And so it ought fairly and reasonably to have asked open questions, or additional questions, 
to challenge the purpose of the payment. Had it done so, I think Mr S wouldve struggled to 
answer their questions plausibly as hed have had to think on his feet. Even given options to 
choose from Mr Ss responses were slightly hesitant. 
Additionally, as Ive previously explained, at no point during that first payment journey was 
Mr S warned about number spoofing  this is something Id have expected Lloyds fraud 
team to mention given their understanding of these types of fraud. The call handler that 
uncovered the fraud admitted that it is telephone number spoofing that catches most people 
out.
Had Lloyds had a more bespoke conversation with Mr S, asked him open questions, and 
told him that fraudsters were able to spoof Lloyds genuine number Im persuaded the spell Mr S was under would more likely than not have been broken. My view is supported by what 
happened when Mr S attempted to make the fourth payment to the fraudster. 
It follows that Mr S wouldnt have gone on to make any of the payments to the fraudster and 
Lloyds couldve prevented the loss. 
My findings that Lloyds ought to have prevented Mr S from making the payments
have a limited impact on the outcome of this complaint given I have decided Mr S
shouldve been reimbursed under the provisions of the CRM Code. The impact relates to the
interest payable only.
Conclusions
Overall, while I accept Lloyds did take steps to protect Mr S from harm, Im persuaded 
Lloyds should have reimbursed Mr S under the provisions of the CRM Code. Im not satisfied 
Lloyds established Mr S didnt meet his requisite level of care. Ive also concluded that 
Lloyds couldve prevented the loss entirely had it had better conversations with him, for the 
reasons Ive explained.
In those circumstances, I think Lloyds should now fairly and reasonably compensate Mr S by 
refunding him the £12,500 he lost as a result of the scam.
  
My final decision
 I uphold Mr Ss complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
refund Mr S the £12,500 he lost to the scam;
pay 8% simple interest on the £8,100 (the funds that originated from Mr Ss Club 
Lloyds account) from the date of loss (3 September 2019) to the date of settlement
pay the respective account interest rate of the Monthly Saver at the time, on the 
remaining £4,400, from the date of loss (3 September 2019) to the date of 
settlement).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Katie Doran
Ombudsman