DRN-3545574
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Unum Ltd has declined a claim he made on an income protection 
policy.
What happened
Mr B was a member of his employers group income protection scheme. In August 2019 he 
became absent from work. He claimed on the policy but unfortunately his employer didnt 
pass on the details of the claim to Unum. In the claim form Mr B said he was suffering from 
stress and anxiety.
When the claim was assessed it was declined by Unum. They said the evidence indicated 
that Mr Bs absence was due to perceived work-related stressors and his reported emotional 
issues were unlikely to resolve until those stressors had been resolved. They said there was 
limited evidence to indicate the presence of a psychological illness causing persistent and 
pervasive symptoms or functional impairment that would prevent him from performing his 
insured occupation. 
The decision to decline the claim was appealed but Unum maintained their decision to 
decline the claim. Unum said in their final response letter that it was workplace issues that 
were casing the absence and not a mental illness of such severity that it impacted on Mr Bs 
ability to function. Unhappy, Mr B complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought Unum had fairly declined the claim, based on the available evidence. Mr B asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Its for Mr B to 
show that he has a valid claim under the policy, not for Unum to show that he doesnt. 
Mr B has made a number of comments and hes provided a lot of information. Ill focus on 
what I consider to be the key issues which are central to the outcome of this complaint. 
The starting point is the policy terms and conditions. In order to make a valid claim Mr B 
needed to demonstrate that he met the policy definition of incapacity. The policy terms and 
conditions say: 
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are: 
Unable by reason of their illness or injury to perform the material and 
substantial duties of the insured occupation and are
Not performing any occupation. 
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint because I think Unum reasonably declined the claim. I 
say that because: 
Mr B had a history of being impacted by a mental health condition dating back to a 
traumatic incident some years ago. Theres no dispute about that. However, hed 
been at work since that incident, whilst experiencing those symptoms and whilst 
receiving support with his mental health. 
In his claim form Mr B referred to a number of issues with his employer. He described 
his place of work as a hostile and toxic environment and explained that there had 
been changes to workplace adjustments. He said he felt anger, rage and revulsion at 
what had been directed towards him and this increased his stress levels. He 
explained hed raised a grievance. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to 
conclude that workplace issues were a significant barrier in Mr Bs return to work. 
I think thats also consistent with the available medical evidence. For example, 
shortly, before Mr B became absent from work his GP noted that he was having 
issues with work and a new manager who wanted him to come in more days a week, 
rather than working remotely. A few weeks later the GP notes that Mr B was under a 
lot of stress at work, hed been in touch with a solicitor and hed started a grievance 
at work. There was also a note to say that it had brought back memories of how Mr B 
had been dealt with in the past. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to rely 
on this evidence and conclude that was workplace issues that were casing the 
absence and not a mental illness of such severity that it impacted on Mr Bs ability to 
function. 
Ive also thought about whether Unum should have referred Mr B to an independent 
medical examiner (IME) for an assessment. And Ive taken into account that mental 
health conditions and stressors at work can overlap. But I dont think a referral to an 
IME was something that Unum was required to do in the circumstances of this case. I 
say that because its for Mr B to demonstrate that hes got a valid claim. And, whilst 
there may be circumstances where that would be appropriate, I dont think it was 
necessary in this case because Unum had fairly concluded that workplace issues 
were the main barrier to the return to work. 
Ive taken into account the further information Mr B provided in response to our 
investigators opinion. But it hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall outcome 
of this complaint. A lot of the information pre-dates Mr Bs absence from work and, in 
any event, I dont think it gives a significant insight into his ability to carry out his 
insured occupation at the relevant time.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman