DRN-3622248
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc sent her letters about her credit card 
account which she found threatening.
What happened
Mrs S was sent letters about her credit card account being in persistent debt. She says she 
found the tone of the letters threatening. She said she initially didnt realise that she needed 
to take action as she was making repayments in line with the account terms and conditions.
RBS said that Mrs S was sent letters in line with the regulations as she was identified as 
being in persistent debt. It noted Mrs S comments about the tone of the letters but said the 
letters were sent to all customers in persistent debt. It said Mrs S closed her credit card 
account on 9 May 2022.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view. She said the letters she received didnt 
include the words persistent debt and if they had she would have cleared her debt 
immediately. She said she had the funds available to repay the debt but had chosen not to. 
She reiterated that she was managing her account within its terms and conditions. Mrs S 
also said that RBS had known for years that she struggled to use the telephone and it wasnt 
responding to her letters and emails.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS has explained it is a regulatory requirement for it to send letters to customers as 
they move through the debt stages. I have looked at RBS letters and can see that the 18-
month letter says that:
We've identified that over the past 18 months you've been making minimum or relatively low 
repayments in comparison to your balance. This means that you've paid more in interest 
(and any fees/charges) than you've repaid from the amount borrowed.
While the letter doesnt explicitly use the words persistent debt the wording above is the 
definition of persistent debt and I think the letter is clear in its explanation of why it has been 
sent. The letter then explains that further action may be taken if the situation continues over 
the following 18 months and provides contact details for further assistance. Similar 
information is included in the 27-month letter and this states that further action may be taken 
if the situation continues for the following nine-months. So, while I appreciate that Mrs S 
didnt think she needed to take action at this point, and I accept that she was making the 
minimum repayments, I think the letters were clear about the situation on her account, why 
contact was made and that further action could be taken if the situation continued.
The 36- month letter includes the term persistent debt and I note the comment that its says 
to search this term on the website, I think that adequate information had been provided to 
this point about the issues that RBS was trying to address. This letter then says that contact 
needs to be made within 60 days and if this doesnt happen the account will be closed. I 
understand that Mrs S found the tone of this letter upsetting and threatening but I do not find 
it unreasonable that RBS set out clearly what action would be taken in the event contact 
wasnt made. The letter did then explain that a suitable repayment amount could be 
discussed and where to find help if needed. So, while I appreciate Mrs S was in a position to 
repay her credit card balance and was choosing not to, the letters are sent to all customers 
and so the standard wording reflects that many wouldnt be in Mrs S situation.
Mrs S repaid the outstanding balance on her credit card and the account has been closed. I 
appreciate she is concerned that other accounts she holds with RBS will be closed. But I 
have nothing to suggest that this is the case.
Mrs S has also complained that RBS hadnt taken her needs into account saying that it had 
known for years that she struggled to use the telephone. I understand this must be very 
frustrating for Mrs S and I am sorry to hear of the difficulties she experiences and appreciate 
why this makes dealing with issues such as this particularly stressful. However, RBS has 
said it couldnt find any contact notes to show that it was made aware of Mrs S disabilities 
before May 2022. I can see in its response to Mrs S complaint, RBS provided information 
about how Mrs S could set up her account to suit her needs and also noted its text relay 
service. I think this was reasonable given the information Mrs S had provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman