DRN-2467554
The complaint
Mr I complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) lent to him 
irresponsibly
What happened
Mr I applied for a credit card with AESEL. The application was approved, and the card was 
issued in June 2016. In the same month, AESEL reviewed the activity on the account. They 
took the decision to close his account due to the nature of the transactions. They said these 
breached the terms and conditions of the card. Two months notice to close the account was 
sent to Mr I. In August 2016, notice of default was sent to him. The debt was referred to a 
debt collection agency and entries made on Mr Is credit file. Mr I repaid the debt over a 
period and the final payment was made in January 2018.
Mr I complained. He said he shouldnt have been given the credit limit of £5,000 in the first 
place as he was only 20, with no credit track record. He couldnt afford the debt and he took 
loans from other lenders to service it. He said that the debt had been sold to a debt 
collection agency whod charged fees of £3,500. Interest was still charged by AESEL and 
also late fees were applied. His credit file had been marked with the debt. He said hes 
suffered from stress as a result.
AESEL replied in November 2019. They said that they had approved the card and its limit 
based on their internal approval processes, plus information from credit reference agencies. 
In June 2016, they had reviewed My Is account and found transactions were being made in 
breach of their terms and conditions. In August 2016, the account was cancelled and 
referred to a debt collection agency. They did not charge any fees. The debt stayed with 
AESEL and interest was payable on it. The debt was repaid in January 2018. They said that 
theyd not made an error and did not uphold Mr Is complaint.
Mr I brought his complaint to this service. Initially our investigator wasnt persuaded that 
AESEL had acted fairly here. She noted that Mr I was 20 and therefore an adult and able to 
make his own decisions. But she considered the lending was irresponsible. She thought that 
there were insufficient credit checks made, especially when the debt was 23% of Mr Is 
income, with no previous history of borrowing money. She recommended that AESEL refund 
all interest paid on the debt, plus 8% simple. She found no evidence that fees had been 
charged by the debt collection agency. She thought the notice of default and the entries on 
the credit register were reasonable.
AESEL disagreed. They said that Mr I had passed their credit approval checks. These were 
based on the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidelines within the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). They said the debt of £5,000 could be repaid in five years by making 
the minimum monthly repayments. Mr I had managed to repay the debt by January 2018, 
and this showed it was affordable. They said that the debt wasnt sold to a debt collection 
agency and it stayed with AESEL.
Our investigator asked Mr I for his credit file and bank statements for the period leading up to 
the application for the card. He provided bank statements but couldnt send his credit file to 
us. AESEL couldnt evidence Mr Is credit file either. They said theyd checked it. She 
reconsidered the information and issued a further opinion in December 2020. She said that 
the checks carried out by AESEL were reasonable and proportionate. The lending appeared 
affordable. AESEL can set its own criteria for agreeing to lend money. There was nothing 
that suggested that AESEL shouldve done further checks or concluded that the debt was 
unaffordable. This was shown by the fact that Mr I managed to repay the debt by January 
2018. She hadnt found anything from Mr Is bank statements to suggest that he was in 
financial difficulty.
Mr I asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cant tell AESEL what its credit checks should be  but our job is to decide whether they 
lent to Mr I irresponsibly.
I considered whether what they did was reasonable and proportionate when considering all 
the facts available at the time. In deciding whether a customer was provided with 
unaffordable credit or provided with credit irresponsibly, we need to understand:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a 
fair lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the 
lender knew about the borrowers circumstances?
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent completed, would reasonable and 
proportionate checks more likely than not have shown that the borrower was more 
likely than not unable to sustainably repay what they were being lent?
Did the lender act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
AESEL say they make a judgement on whether to lend based on their own criteria, plus a 
credit file check. They cant evidence what the check showed, but it showed as satisfactory 
as Mr I passed their credit score. So, Ive taken into account what information is available 
about the application. Ive seen that Mr I said in his application that he earned £22,000 per 
annum. He was in regularly paid employment. I could see little other information on the 
application form, for example, other debt commitments, residential status etc. 
We asked Mr I for a copy of his credit file, but he couldnt provide this. His bank statements 
at the time show a regular net monthly salary of £1,455 per month  this is consistent with 
his annual gross salary. They show no obvious payments to other lenders. So, if AESEL had 
looked at the statements, I cant see that they would have had any immediate concerns 
about. There were some regular payments in connection with gambling, but these werent 
causing Mr I any obvious problems in him maintaining his account and gambling is a 
legitimate way of spending money. So, I dont think this on its own would have been a 
reason for AESEL to necessarily have thought twice about lending to Mr I. 
I see that the debt on the card was drawn up to its limit in the first month. It may be that Mr I 
used this money to clear other debts he held  but given how he used the balance on the card, theres no clear of evidence of how this was used. In any event, AESEL wouldnt have 
been aware of this when making their lending decision, unless Mr I told them he was going 
to pay off existing debts  and theres no evidence that he did. 
Mr I has said that he was too young to borrow £5,000 and had no history or experience of 
borrowing money  but he was an adult, aged 20 and responsible for his own decisions. And 
everyone must start somewhere. Whats important here is that AESEL acted responsibly in 
checking whether the lending was affordable  as it shouldve done for any of its customers 
 and I think it did.
Mr I managed to repay the card debt by January 2018  over 20 months. This in itself 
suggests that the debt was affordable overall and would supports AESELs original lending 
decision. He has said that he managed to do this by borrowing from other lenders. We have 
no evidence that this was the case. But in any event, this was after AESELs decision to lend 
the money  and we can only look at what information they had to go on at the time.
Mr I also said that he was charged late fees on his debt by AESEL  I found no evidence of 
this. He also said that he was charged fees of £3,500 by the debt collection agency  I found 
no evidence of that and he later said that hes been mistaken.
It looks to me that AESEL took the decision that they didnt want a relationship with Mr I as a 
result of the review of his account in June 2016. They were entitled to do what followed. 
They could charge interest on the debt in line with its terms and conditions.  The closure of 
the account was justified as the terms and conditions said you may not use your account for 
illegal activities or in a manner which disguises the true nature of the transaction. They were 
clear in their letter dated June 2016 for the reasons for closure. The final demand letter in 
August 2016 terminated the card and gave notice that the debt would be passed to the debt 
collection agency and an entry would be made on Mr Is credit file. 
I can only make a decision based on what AESEL knew at the time of when they agreed to 
lend Mr I the money. And based on what I have seen, there was nothing which suggested 
that they should have been concerned or needed to make deeper inquiries into Mr Is 
circumstances.  So, their lending decision was reasonable and proportionate, and I wont be 
asking them to do any more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman