DRN-3784048
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont 
refund money they lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Although the account from which the payment in dispute was made was held by Mr and Mrs 
O, it was Mr O who interacted with the fraudsters. So, for ease, Ive mostly referred to him 
throughout this decision.
A life-long friend and financial advisor recommended a trading company (that Ill call B) to Mr 
O. His friend appeared to be doing very well from the investment and claimed he had made 
lots of profit and had already been able to withdraw £50,000 from his investment.
Mr O was introduced to a representative of B. The representative appeared to Mr O to be 
very credible. Mr O was signed up to a telegram group that contained people he knew who 
had also invested in this company. Mr O was told that he could only make withdrawals after 
three months.
Mr O agreed to invest and made three transfers to Binance totalling £7,000 in which he 
purchased crypto and forwarded this on to B. After three months, Mr O was not able to 
withdraw his profits and after some back and forth with B, he discovered that his friend had 
also not actually been able to withdraw his profits and at this point Mr O realised he had in 
fact been scammed. Mr O believes Halifax didnt do enough to protect him.
Mr O reported the matter to Halifax. It didnt think it had made an error, so declined his claim. 
Mr O referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators thought that Halifax 
should have questioned the payments, given their unusual nature. She noted that there was 
evidence of a call with Halifax around this time, but from the notes of the call the questions 
asked were not sufficient. That said though, she did not think an intervention would have 
changed Mr Os decision to carry on with the transactions - given the circumstances that led 
to Mr O investing in the first place. 
Mr O, through his representatives, didnt agree. As no agreement could be reached, the 
case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Binance, so the starting point 
here is that Mr O is responsible for making the payments. However, banks and other 
Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against 
money laundering.
There is no doubt that the payments made were unusual compared to the typical 
transactions on Mr Os account, and  they did prompt Halifax to call Mr O to check that they 
were legitimate payments. Due to the circumstances of the payments that were made from 
Mr Os account, I think that Halifax should have asked Mr O more probing and in depth 
questions, to find out what the payments related to. Had Halifax done this, I think its likely Mr 
O would have explained the reason he was making payments to Binance.
Had Halifax asked these questions they would have discovered that B was making the 
payments to purchase cryptocurrencies on the recommendation of a life-long friend who 
was, importantly, also a financial advisor. I also think its likely that Mr O wouldve assured 
Halifax that the same person whod recommend he do this, had made a profit and had 
already been able to withdraw funds - without experiencing any problems. I also think its 
possible that Mr O wouldve pointed out that he knew others that had made such payments 
too.  
So in the circumstances, had Halifax asked more probing questions, I think its likely that Mr 
O wouldve been able to explain what the payments were for and assure Halifax that people 
he trusted had done the same and so he had no concerns about the payments. And so I 
think Halifax wouldve had no choice but to let the payments be made
Furthermore, had Halifax warned Mr O that the payments he was making could be part of a 
scam, Im not persuaded that Mr O would have been dissuaded from going ahead with the 
transactions. Mr O was recommended the investment by a lifelong friend who was a financial 
advisor. The friend initially said that he had made and withdrawn profits. Hes also said how 
credible he found the fraudster. And, finally there were no credible warnings available online 
about B either.
I note that Mr Os representative has explained that Halifax could have directed Mr O to see 
if B were registered with the FCA. But my understanding is that this would have been 
highlighted in a warning that would have been shown when Mr O was transferring money to 
Binance. So I dont think it being mentioned again would have changed anything.
It therefore follows that I cant reasonably tell Halifax to refund any money to Mr O. 
Im sorry Mr O has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why he would 
like to be compensated for his loss. I do accept Mr O has fallen victim to a sophisticated 
scam. But I can only consider whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam 
itself, should be held responsible for what happened. For the reasons set out above I do not 
find Halifax can be held responsible  even partly - in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Charlie NewtonOmbudsman