DRN-1352720
 
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from National Westminster Bank plc 
(NatWest) following his request to withdraw a direct debit (DD). 
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr G and NatWest so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However in summary it is this; 
On 17 October 2019 Mr G rang NatWest and asked them to cancel a DD he had set up . 
This was so that his account would be placed back in funds. He spoke to a call handler who 
advised him that she could recall the DD but that the funds wouldnt be available to him until 
the following day.
Mr G was unhappy with that and threatened to harm himself which the call handler took very 
seriously by notifying the local police. As a result the police went to check on Mr Gs welfare 
and in the process of doing so caused damage to his door.
Mr G wants NatWest to compensate him for the damage to his door and the stress and 
anxiety he has been caused.
NatWest said that when Mr G called on 17 October the DD payment had already been 
processed which meant they couldnt stop it from leaving his account. They did arrange to 
recall the payment but as payment recalls are processed overnight the funds would only 
become available the following day. With respect to their calling the police, they said they 
had acted out of genuine concern for Mr G given the threats he had made and their concern 
for his welfare. They did not accept that they were liable for the police action in damaging his 
door. 
Mr G was unhappy with NatWests response and so brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it but didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly. As Mr G didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate. Im not the industry regulator, and I dont have power 
to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they change their processes, or punish 
them. That is for the Financial Conduct Authority. I will consider whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G. I aim to 
address all relevant points with a view to reaching a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides views.  
So, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. Ive listened to the call recording of the 17 
October which is at the centre of this complaint. Mr G was very clear about what he wanted 
to achieve when he rang, but as the call handler explained, the DD had been processed and 
so it was not possible for NatWest to put the money back into his account instantly. All that 
could be done was to recall it and that meant the funds would not appear in his account until 
the next day.
Ive checked the terms and conditions on Mr Gs account which say;
7.7 Cancellation of a payment
We cant stop a payment youve asked us to make unless its made by a cheque, 
standing order, Direct Debit or future dated payment.
To stop a cheque or cancel a standing order, Direct Debit or future dated payment, 
you should contact your branch or telephone banking. You can also cancel a standing 
order or Direct Debit through online banking. Payments cant be stopped after theyve 
been processed.
The last sentence is the relevant part because in Mr Gs case his DD had already been 
processed. So, I think NatWest didn't do anything wrong and I can't say they have acted 
unfairly.
Ive also thought about NatWest actions in notifying the Police of their concerns. Having 
listened to the call, and whilst having empathy for the situation Mr G found himself in, I can 
understand why the call handler took the action she did. Mr G was very upset and I think the 
call handler had no alternative other than to take what he was saying very seriously.  It is a 
great shame that Mr Gs door has been damaged but I cant say that that is as a result of 
NatWests actions, so  cant say they have done anything wrong here.
Although Mr G will probably be disappointed with my decision, I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and I cant say NatWest have acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman