DRN-1950511
The complaint
Mrs H says Naylors Finance Limited irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about eight home collected credit loans provided to Mrs H between        
August 2013 and November 2014. Mrs Hs borrowing history is as follows: 
Loan Date of 
LoanAmount Settled Term
(Weekly)Weekly 
Repayment 
1 22/08/13 £250 16/12/13 25 £15
1a 22/08/13 £300 16/12/13 25 £18
1b 22/08/13 £100 16/12/13 26   £6
2 12/12/13 £250 24/03/14 25 £15
2a 12/12/13 £300 24/03/14 25 £18
2b 12/12/13 £100 26/05/14 26   £6
3 21/03/14 £250 14/07/14 25 £15
3a 21/03/14 £300 14/07/14 25 £18
4 22/05/14 £100 19/09/14 26   £6
5 10/07/14 £250 14/11/14 25 £15
5a 10/07/14 £300 14/11/14 25 £18
6 22/09/14 £100 13/11/15 
write off 
£5526   £6
7 12/11/14 £250 13/11/15 
write 
off £32426 £15
8 18/11/14 £300 13/11/15 
write off 
£36025 £18
For any loans taken on the same day, I have treated them as one loan. And Naylors has told 
us it has written off £739 for loans six to eight. 
Our adjudicator reviewed Mrs Hs complaint and thought that the loans from loan six 
onwards should be upheld. The adjudicator said this because they thought that the overall 
pattern of Mrs Hs borrowing indicated she was becoming persistently reliant on these loans 
and the borrowing was becoming unsustainable. 
Mrs H queried with the adjudicator whether she would be paid any redress when taking into 
account the amount that Naylors has told us it has written off, which according to Naylors 
calculations she wouldnt. Mrs H then asked for an ombudsman to review the earlier loans  
loans one to five. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Naylors needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Naylors should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Naylors was required to establish 
whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint about loans one to five. Mrs H hasnt 
provided any further evidence or arguments for us to consider but has asked for an 
ombudsman to reconsider this lending. Naylors has given us the information it gathered from Mrs H before it agreed to lend to her. 
This included information about Mrs Hs income and expenditure to assess whether the 
lending was affordable for her. 
As Ive explained above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. And as explained by the adjudicator, for 
loans one and two Naylors hasnt been able to provide the affordability information it had 
gathered. But based on the information Naylors had for loans three and four, I think Naylors 
would have likely thought loans one and two were affordable. And the same applies for loans 
three and four. 
For loan five I think Naylors should have been looking to build a bigger picture of Mrs Hs 
financial circumstances. It could have done this by asking her for copies of her bank 
statements and evidence of her income or bills as examples. Mrs H has been able to give us 
her bank statements and including from around the time she took loan five. The monthly 
income and expenditure according to those statements suggest that loan five was 
affordable. Mrs Hs income was just under £2,200 and outgoings of just under £1,200 
leaving a disposable income of just around £1,000. So, taking into account the monthly 
repayments Mrs H would have had to make for loan five it wasnt unreasonable for Naylors 
to have given those loans to Mrs H.
But, like the adjudicator, Ive looked at the overall pattern of Naylors lending history with
Mrs H, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Naylors should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Naylors should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mrs Hs case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point was 
reached by loan six. I say this because:
At this point Naylors ought to have realised Mrs H was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs H had taken out six loans in thirteen months. So, it should 
have realised it was more likely than not Mrs H was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Mrs Hs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
For many of the loans Mrs H would take out new loans a few days before repayment 
the previous loans. As examples, loan two was taken out on 12 December 2013 (and 
for the same amount as loan one) and loan one was repaid four days later. Loan 
three was taken on 21 March 2014 and loans two and two (a) were repaid three days 
later. And loan five, was taken on 10 July 2014, three days before loan three was 
repaid. So, Im satisfied a pattern of borrowing was appearing which suggested that 
Mrs H was becoming persistently reliant on this type of lending and which was 
recognisable by loan six. As a consequence, the lending was unsustainable for her. 
And this looks most likely to have been the case as loans six to eight were written off. 
Mrs H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Naylors. Loan eight 
was taken out 15 months after Mrs Hs first. Mrs H had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect; service a debt to Naylors over an extended period.
I think that Mrs H lost out because Naylors continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Hs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.The number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint about loan six onwards. 
Putting things right
When a business has made an error  either because it accepts one has been made or we 
decide something has gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, is that a consumer 
should be put back into the position they would have been in had an error not been made. 
However, this is not always possible especially in cases that involve lending money.
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this, this service has to acknowledge that the 
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. This is why in such 
cases we ask the lender to refund any extra that has been repaid by a consumer, so for 
example interest and charges. We also direct any additional interest payment to the 
consumer to reflect the loss of the use of those funds. This has the effect of providing the 
consumer with an interest free loan. By doing this, in our view, a fair outcome is reached.
 
However, Naylors has told us it has already written off £739  its not clear what this amount 
includes but I assume its the principal amount outstanding plus interest and/or charges  for 
loans six to eight compared to the total principal amount borrowed of £650. We would expect 
for the principal to be repaid. But from the information that Naylors has given us Mrs H hasnt 
repaid more than was borrowed for each loan, so it is likely that no redress is due.
 
Our adjudicator explained to Mrs H that Naylors redress calculations show that for loans six 
to eight £495.04 would be due to her. But, taking into account the amount Naylors has told 
us it has already written off, Naylors can offset the redress against that, so nothing would be 
payable to Mrs H based on the figures Naylors has given us. 
If, at the point that Naylors carried out the write off Mrs H had already repaid it enough to 
have repaid the total principal borrowed on loans six to eight. Then Naylors will need to 
refund Mrs H any overpayment due plus 8% interest. (HM Revenue & Customs requires 
Gain Credit to take off tax from this interest. Gain Credit must give Mrs H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.)
Naylors needs to make sure it provides Mrs H with a breakdown of its calculations. If there is 
still a balance outstanding made-up of written off principal, it would not be fair for Naylors to 
pursue this further. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Naylors Finance Limited should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman