DRN-2937441
The complaint
Mr G complains that Society of Lloyds has turned down a cancellation claim he made on a 
travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In March 2019, Mr G booked a sailing trip abroad. He was due to fly abroad on 28 March 
2020 and join a yacht on 31 March 2020, sailing between islands. He was due to return to 
the UK on 29 March 2020. Mr G took out a Topsail annual travel insurance policy in August 
2019. Cover under the policy began on 3 September 2019 and was due to expire on 2 
September 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against all but essential travel. On 18 
March 2020, the government of an area Mr G was travelling to imposed restrictions on 
travel. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed wide-ranging restrictions on 
travel and movement  commonly referred to as lockdown.
This meant that Mr G was unable to travel as planned and his trip was cancelled. He was 
able to recover the costs of his flights and hotel accommodation from those providers. But 
the cost of his sailing trip was non-refundable. So Mr G made a claim on his travel insurance 
policy for the costs associated with the cancellation of his sailing trip.
Lloyds turned down Mr Gs claim. It said the circumstances werent covered by the 
cancellation section of the policy.
Mr G was unhappy with Lloyds decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. In 
particular, he felt his claim was covered by the quarantine provision set out in the 
cancellation section of the policy.
Our investigator thought Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that Mr G had 
been quarantined in line with the policy terms. He felt the main reason Mr G had cancelled 
his trip was because of the restrictions placed on travel by governments around the world, 
including the FCDO and UK government. 
The investigator accepted that the policy didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCDO 
advice. But he noted that the policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder 
travelled against FCDO advice. This meant Mr G wouldnt have been covered if he cancelled 
and he wouldnt be covered if he travelled. He didnt think the policy terms made the 
combined effect of these terms clear. And he considered that if Mr G had been aware that he 
wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance changed before he travelled, he wouldve been 
unlikely to take out the policy. So he felt it would be fair for Lloyds to assess Mr Gs claim in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Lloyds disagreed. In summary, it said it hadnt relied on the FCDO exclusion to turn down 
the claim  it was simply the fact that the claim wasnt covered. It didnt think it would be fair 
or reasonable to expect it to list all exclusions in the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) and the document made it clear that it didnt contain all of the terms and 
conditions. It also referred to another exclusion it felt applied to the circumstances of Mr Gs 
claim.
Mr G maintained that the UK lockdown restrictions in force at the time meant he was in 
quarantine.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr Gs claim. Ill explain why.
First, while I accept that Mr G feels strongly that he was quarantined by the lockdown 
measures imposed by the UK government, I dont think I need to make a finding on that 
point. Thats because I think Lloyds has treated Mr G unfairly for another reason which Ill go 
on to explore.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines 
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for 
Business) say: 
 a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
  act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer; 
 handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an IPID, which 
gives customers an at a glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the 
insurance cover, including the main risks insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, 
the geographical scope and summary of excluded risks. 
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors 
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
At the top of page 1, the IPID says:
The information provided in this insurance Product information Document is a summary of 
key information about your policy that you should read. The summary does NOT contain the 
full terms, conditions, excesses and exclusions. These are detailed in the policy wording a 
copy of which is available on request.Under the What is insured? section, the IPID says: Loss of unused travel, accommodation, 
or any other pre-paid charges contracted to be paid. Up to £5000.
The IPID makes no reference to the fact that policyholders wont be covered if they travel 
against FCDO advice.
The policy terms and conditions
Page 8 of the policy terms sets out the specific, listed events Lloyds covers if a policyholder 
cancels their trip. These are as follows:
a) Your death, or sustaining an Injury or serious illness.
b) The death, Injury or serious illness of Your Relative, Partner, fianc(e), business   
colleague, any person with whom You had arranged to travel, reside or conduct business 
with.
c) You or any person with whom You had arranged to travel, reside or conduct business 
being:
(i) quarantined;
(ii) called for witness or jury service;
(iii) made redundant, provided that such redundancy qualifies for payment under the United 
Kingdom's Redundancy Payments Acts;
(iv) called for emergency duty as a member of the armed forces, government, police, fire, 
rescue or medical services or a public utility company; or
(v) required to be present at Your Home or place of business in the United Kingdom 
following a burglary or major damage caused by storm, flood or fire.
d) The cancellation or delayed departure, for 24-hours or more, of a Publicly Licensed 
Transport vehicle in which You had previously booked to travel resulting from any of the 
following events: strike, industrial action, fire, flood, earthquake, landslide, avalanche, 
volcanic eruption, adverse weather conditions or an accident or mechanical breakdown, 
provided that such event had not occurred, commenced or been announced before the 
booking was made in respect of the affected departure.
e) Damage caused by a storm, flood or fire which results in the accommodation in which You 
had previously booked to reside during the Trip being uninhabitable, including any 
waterborne vessel or craft.
f) Where the vessel that You are sailing in is stolen, incurs actual or constructive total loss, 
or requires repairs that are likely to exceed 7 days and render the vessel uninhabitable.
The policy also sets out a list of specific things Lloyds doesnt cover and which apply to the 
whole policy. This includes the following, on page 19 of the policy, under the heading 
General Exclusions:
20. Travelling to a country where the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised 
against all but essential travel.
Was it unreasonable for Lloyds to turn down the claim?Mr G cancelled his trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to the 
destination he was due to travel to. Thats not something that is covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking into 
account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr G had travelled abroad (in the event 
that it was possible for him to do so), hed have not followed FCDO advice. So, he wouldnt 
have been covered by any of the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and 
conditions of the contract, cancellation of a holiday due to changes in FCDO guidance also 
isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr G.   
Mr G would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand 
that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this information was 
brought to his attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined 
effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr G and 
Lloyds. I think its unlikely that Mr G would have purchased the policy if hed realised that 
there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after hed bought the 
policy. And, at the time Mr G bought his policy, he would have been able to find cover 
elsewhere which did cover the circumstances he subsequently found himself in. 
I appreciate Lloyds says that it didnt decline the claim because of the FCDO exclusion. But 
as Ive set out above, while Mr Gs reason for cancellation wasnt strictly covered; if he had 
gone ahead and taken the trip, it seems he wouldnt have been covered at all by the policy. 
Thats because hed have travelled against FCDO advice. So, had he travelled abroad and 
made a claim, I think the exclusion is likely to have applied to the circumstances of it. 
Lloyds has also referred to a further exclusion which is set out in the IPID and which it 
considers could be applied to Mr Gs claim. This says that Lloyds wont cover claims arising 
from:
The tour operator, airline or any other provider becoming insolvent or being unable/unwilling 
to fulfil their obligations.
Lloyds says that due to worldwide travel restrictions, the tour operator couldnt fulfil its 
obligations. Ive thought about this. Like the investigator though, Im not persuaded it would 
be fair to apply this exclusion to the circumstances of Mr Gs claim. I agree with the 
investigator that it appears this exclusion is intended to apply to situations where a travel 
provider has become insolvent or is unable to meet its financial obligations. And I think thats 
what a reasonable consumer would understand from the IPID. On a reasonable 
interpretation of this clause, I dont think its fair to say that the tour operator was unable to 
fulfil its obligations. In my view, the reason for the cancellation of the trip was the change in 
FCDO advice on 17 March 2020. Following that change, it seems to me that Mr G simply 
wasnt in a position where he couldve travelled as planned.
I agree too that it seems unfair to apply such an exclusion for the services of all travel 
providers who were largely prevented from providing holiday services. I dont think the 
exclusion is clear enough to highlight that if worldwide travel is largely banned, the policy will 
provide no cover at all for claims. 
Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Lloyds to treat Mr 
Gs claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. Lloyds must therefore 
assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Society of Lloyds to treat Mr Gs cancellation claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of the policy and to assess it in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the contract.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman