DRN-3620693
Complaint
Mr B has complained about guarantor loans Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided to him. 
He says the loan were provided irresponsibly as he couldnt afford the repayments.
Background
Bamboo provided Mr B with a loan for £3,500.00 in July 2016. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £150.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr B and Bamboo had told us. He thought that 
Bamboo unfairly provided Mr B with this loan and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. Bamboo disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review complaint.
My provisional decision of 11 July 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 11 July 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide 
Mr Bs complaint. 
I went on to explain that Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice, this meant it needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mr B could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo said it agreed to Mr Bs application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It said it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out which showed he didnt have that much outstanding debt and 
his commitments were relatively well maintained. Bamboo also used data from the Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) to estimate Mr Bs non-mortgage and credit related living 
expenses. 
In Bamboos view all of this information showed Mr B could comfortably afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr B said he was in financial difficulty 
and couldnt afford this loan.
I carefully thought about what Mr B and Bamboo said. 
Our investigator was concerned that Mr B had previously taken out payday loans and he 
couldnt see why he would take this loan if he had the level of disposable income Bamboo 
thought he had. But the funds advanced were enough to clear the vast majority of what Mr B 
owed. Bamboos credit searches also appeared to show that Mr Bs existing debts appeared 
to be relatively well managed. Equally, I couldnt see anything in the other information Mr B 
provided which suggested he wasnt able to make the repayments either. Indeed, the 
information I was suggested that most of what Mr B declared to Bamboo was accurate. 
I also explained that it wouldnt always be proportionate for a lender to rely on ONS data to 
estimate a prospective borrowers non-mortgage and credit related living costs. However, as 
this was a first loan and the monthly loan repayments were relatively low, I didnt think that it 
was unreasonable for Bamboo to do have done this in this instance. This is because 
everything else it obtained suggested that Mr B didnt fall outside the profile of the average 
customer in this instance. And the funds being advanced could have been used to break         
Mr Bs cycle of payday lending. 
I did accept that the balance on Mr Bs existing credit-card accounts were approaching the 
maximum amount he had available. But as this was a first loan and Bamboo provided 
sufficient funds to clear Mr Bs most of Mr Bs outstanding credit card balances and his 
payday loans, I was satisfied that it was reasonably entitled to rely on him doing this.   
I went on to acknowledge that Mr B said he experienced difficulty making the payments. And 
the reason why might have been because he did go on to re-establish balances on the 
account that was supposed to have been cleared. But Bamboo could only make a 
reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the time. It wont have 
known Mr B would do this  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on 
assurances from Mr B that the balances would be repaid. 
Bamboo couldnt close Mr Bs credit cards to prevent him spending on them, because they 
were held with other providers. And as this was a first loan it was providing to Mr B, there 
wasnt a history of Mr B obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in 
the way he committed to either.
As this was the case, I didnt think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to   
Mr B - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable and it took reasonable steps to ensure Mr Bs 
indebtedness wasnt increasing unsustainably. 
So overall and having considered everything, I was currently minded to conclude that 
Bamboo didnt treat Mr B unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And 
therefore I concluded by stating I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Bamboo responded to my provisional decision confirming that it agreed with it and that it had 
nothing further to add. 
Mr B didnt respond to my provisional decision, or ask for any further time to do so.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint. And as neither 
party has provided any further arguments for me to consider, Ive not been persuaded to 
alter my conclusions. So Im still not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
I do appreciate this decision is likely to be very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision of 11 July 2022, Im not 
upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman