DRN-3985644
The complaint
Mr K complains that Society of Lloyd's offered an unfair settlement following a claim on his 
property insurance policy for storm damage. 
What happened
Mr K had property insurance with Society of Lloyds for a property he owns and rents out, 
which he took out through a broker. In 2022 he made a claim following storm damage to the 
property.
Lloyds accepted the claim, however when its loss adjuster inspected the property they said 
it was underinsured. They said the property was only insured for £102,5400 when the true 
rebuild cost was £189,000.
Due to this Lloyds said it was relying on an average clause in the policy which allowed it to 
settle the claim based on the proportion the property was underinsured by. It therefore 
offered a settlement at 54.3% of the full value of the repairs.
Mr K didnt think this was fair, he also said hed paid for repairs to his neighbours roof and a 
claim settlement hadnt been offered for this. He made a complaint. 
Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint about the proportionate settlement of the claim. It said 
there was a term in the policy that allowed it to reduce the settlement amount where there is 
underinsurance, so it had acted fairly. However it said the claim for the damage to Mr Ks 
neighbours roof had to be made by the neighbour rather than Mr K, and it didnt think it had 
made this clear to him. So it offered £250 to make up for this. Unhappy with Lloyds 
response, Mr K asked this service to investigate. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that as the claim 
settlement was disadvantageous compared to the relevant law, and Lloyds hadnt done 
enough to contract out of the law, then it should apply the remedy in the law rather than the 
policys average clause. She also thought it should pay an additional £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused by not offering a fair settlement in the first place. 
Mr K accepted our investigators outcome, however Lloyds didnt. It said it didnt agree it 
hadnt done enough to contract out of the relevant law as the policy term was clear in the 
policy document. And it said as a sophisticated commercial customer, there is an 
expectation that Mr K would be familiar with the policy terms.  It asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has said that Mr K was underinsured, as the value of his property covered by the 
policy was significantly less than it should have been. Because of this, its said it will apply 
the average clause in the policy and offer a proportionate settlement.
I can see the policy contains a term that allows Lloyds to settle claims on a proportionate 
basis where underinsurance has occurred. However as this dispute has arisen due to the 
information that was provided when the policy was first taken out, I think its fair to first 
consider whether Mr K fulfilled his duty under the relevant law. Mr Ks policy is a commercial 
one so the law that applies here is the Insurance Act 2015.
Under the Act a commercial customer has a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to
the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the Act says a commercial policyholder
must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of
an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms. If it is found that they
didnt fulfil this duty then in order to say there has been a qualifying breach, the
insurer needs to show that it would have either not offered the policy at all, or offered it on
different terms.
Here Mr K took out the policy in 2020 and the sum insured was set at £102,500. This was 
reconfirmed to Mr K each year in his renewal documents. When the claim was made in 2022 
Lloyds loss adjuster considered the property to be significantly underinsured. It checked an 
online re-build cost calculator that said a reasonable estimate for the reinstatement of the 
property would be around £189,000. 
Mr K has said when calculating the sum insured he based his estimate on how much he 
bought the property for. And said he took advice from his broker. The amount given for the 
sum insured represents the amount the property would cost to rebuild, so this will usually 
vary from the value the property was bought for. There are various ways this can be 
calculated, the most common is to use the free online calculators. 
When looking at whether a customer has provided a reasonable estimate for the sum 
insured, this service considers a number of factors including how the amount was reached. 
Here, as Mr K has said he referred only to the sale price of the property, and considering the 
amount the property was underinsured by, I dont think this was a reasonable estimate. And I 
therefore dont think Mr K met his obligation under the Insurance Act to provide a fair 
presentation of the risk.
In order to determine if this amounts to a qualifying breach under the Act, Ive asked Lloyds 
to provide details of the premiums Mr K would have paid for the policy based on a 
reasonable estimate of the sum insured. Its confirmed it would have charged a premium of 
£421.90, whereas Mr K paid £240.25. So as Lloyds has shown it would have provided the 
policy, but at a different premium, Im satisfied there has been a qualifying breach. 
Under the Act Lloyds are required to settle the claim proportionately, based on the premium 
Mr K paid, compared to what he should have paid. Here that works out as 56.9%. As it 
settled the claim at 54.3% of the total, that means Mr K has been disadvantaged by Lloyds 
relying on the average clause in the policy, rather than applying the relevant law. 
Contracting out from the Insurance Act
Lloyds has said that while it is aware it has departed from the Act, its able to do so because
the policy term is clear in the documents its provided to the customer. It has further said that
as the customer is a sophisticated customer they would be aware of these kind of policy 
terms.
However Section 17 of the Insurance Act 2015 lays out the requirements for insurers topresent this clearly. It states as follows:
The transparency requirements
(1)In this section, the disadvantageous term means such a term as is mentioned in section
16(2).
(2)The insurer must take sufficient steps to draw the disadvantageous term to the insureds
attention before the contract is entered into or the variation agreed.
(3)The disadvantageous term must be clear and unambiguous as to its effect.
Page 3 of 5
(16. 2 as referred above states: 16 (2)A term of a non-consumer insurance contract, or of
any other contract, which would put the insured in a worse position as respects any of the
other matters provided for in Part 2, 3 or 4 of this Act than the insured would be in by virtue
of the provisions of those Parts (so far as relating to non-consumer insurance contracts) is to
that extent of no effect, unless the requirements of section 17 have been satisfied in relation
to the term.)
In this case, the term in the policy would be disadvantageous, as Mr K is at a disadvantage
when the term is applied compared to when the Act is applied  as Ive demonstrated in my
calculations above. Therefore Lloyds would need to have made the term, and its effect, 
clear and unambiguous to its customers in order to fulfil the transparency requirements.
Lloyds has said that it thinks the term is clear enough that it meets the transparency 
requirements as it explains what underinsurance is, how it can impact a claim and gives an 
example of how the term is applied. 
Ive considered this, but I dont think its done enough to meet the requirements for
contracting out as laid out in the Insurance Act. As it has provided no evidence to show that
it has specifically highlighted its departure from the law and the possible disadvantage for
the customer.
I agree that as Mr K is a commercial customer, who owns and rents out various units within 
the property, there is a higher expectation around knowledge of insurance contracts and 
usual exclusions. However I dont think this reasonably extends to a full and detailed 
knowledge of the Insurance Act and how a contract of insurance may differ from this. Nor do 
I think its a reasonable reason to depart from the requirements of the Act itself.
I note the policy has been sold by a broker, however Lloyds is ultimately responsible for 
ensuring the broker has enough information about the policy and any significant terms. And 
this includes meeting the transparency requirements above. Ive asked Lloyds to provide 
details of any information it provided to the broker to make this clear. Its said the broker 
would have had sufficient information from the policy terms themselves and has provided 
nothing further in response. As Ive explained above, I dont consider the policy term to be 
enough to meet the transparency requirements. Therefore, based on this, I dont think its 
done enough to contract out of the Act. 
For these reasons, I dont think its reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the average clause
in the policy to settle this claim. I therefore agree with our investigator that it should settle the 
claim in line with the Insurance Act, rather than the average clause, providing a settlement of 
56.9% of the cost of the repairs to Mr Ks property. Its already offered to pay 8% interest on 
the settlement amount from the date Mr K paid for the repairs until the date settlement is 
paid, and I agree this should be extended to the additional settlement. 
Further, Lloyds has caused some distress and inconvenience by not offering a fair 
settlement in the first place, and this has caused Mr K to have to continue to liaise with Lloyds and bring a complaint to this service. I therefore agree Lloyds should pay him £100 
compensation to apologise for this. 
Third party repairs
Mr K has also complained that his claim for the repairs to his neighbours roof hasnt been 
progressed and he is out of pocket for this amount. As the damage Mr K paid to repair 
wasnt to his own home, the policy wouldnt provide cover. However Lloyds has explained 
that a third party claim can be made under the Policy Owner Liability cover, but would need 
to be made by the neighbour, as claims can only be made by a third party. From looking at 
the cover provided by the policy, this is reasonable and in line with the terms laid out in the 
policy document. 
However I agree that Lloyds didnt make this clear when Mr K first made the claim and 
understand why the information it provided may have led him to believe the cost of the 
neighbours repairs had been raised as a separate claim. Its offered £250 compensation to 
make up for this inaccurate information and I think this is fair in the circumstances, so I wont 
ask it to do anything further in this regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Society of Lloyd's to:
Settle Mr Ks claim at 56.9% of the repair cost, less the excess.
Pay 8% simple interest on the settlement amount from the date Mr K paid for the 
repairs until the settlement is paid.
Pay Mr K an additional £100 compensation to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman