DRN-3481595
The complaint
Miss M complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Trusttwo) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Trusttwo provided a loan to Miss M as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan Status
December 
2019£4,500 60 
months£148.56 £8,913.60 outstanding.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Trusttwo should have 
provided Miss M with the loan and he set out the steps that needed to be taken to put things 
right.
Trusttwo disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.
In summary, Trusttwo said:
Miss M had disposable income of more than £500 which was ample to cover her 
repayments to creditors
there were some historic issues arising out of a change in circumstances but no real 
issues meeting her existing credit commitments
her payment record showed the loan was sustainable and affordable.
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Miss Ms complaint and having done so, I am 
upholding Miss Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain 
my reasons. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Miss Ms complaint. 
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere. The rules dont say what a 
lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate checks 
should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend 
on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, 
the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a 
lender should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
And its important to keep in mind that when working out if a loan looks likely to be affordable 
a lender must take a borrower focussed approach and think carefully about the impact of 
the lending on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt just be about the business risk 
to the lender of not getting its money back.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Trusttwo gathered information from Miss M by asking her about her income and expenses. It 
relied on statistical information which indicated what the likely living expenses would be for 
someone in Miss Ms particular circumstances based on national UK averages. It also 
checked Miss Ms credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments and 
credit history. Trusttwo said that based on these checks it was satisfied that the loan was 
affordable for Miss M.
I've thought carefully about what Trusttwo has said, including the comments it has made in 
response to our adjudicators view, but I dont think that Trusttwo made a fair lending decision 
when it provided this loan.
I say this because I dont think Trusttwo properly took into account information it saw about 
Miss Ms credit record when thinking about her overall financial situation.It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other short-term loans or even an impaired credit record  and these wouldnt necessarily be 
a sufficient reason to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application.
Trusttwo noted in its affordability calculation that Miss Ms creditor repayments worked out at 
around £95. But I think Trusttwo could have seen from its credit checks that in reality Miss M 
needed to pay rather more than this, by my reckoning, a minimum of around one third of her 
net income just on servicing her existing credit commitments  and this didnt allow for her 
making any real inroads into her outstanding debt. I think that this was such a significant 
proportion of Miss Ms monthly income it was a clear warning sign that she was already 
over-reliant on credit and potentially an indication that she was having serious money 
problems. And I think that was borne out by other information Trusttwo saw in its credit 
checks showing that one of Miss Ms three defaulted accounts had gone into default just 
eleven months earlier, suggesting that her financial difficulties were not all historic but 
ongoing. As well as this, she had four credit cards all maxed out and her balance to limit 
ratio revealed that her reliance on using her credit cards had increased over the past year  
including within the last three months. 
This information looked to be clearly at odds with Trusttwos affordability assessment 
suggesting Miss M had £500 spare cash each month and I think Trusttwo shouldve realised 
it couldnt fairly rely on the figures it had worked out. 
Given that Trusttwo understood that Miss Ms monthly take home pay was on average 
around £1,600, this meant that after she had taken out this loan, Miss M would be paying 
more than 40% of her net pay to creditors mostly unsecured loan and credit card providers. 
I agree with our adjudicator that this was such a significant proportion of Miss Ms monthly 
income it couldnt reasonably say it was likely that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way over the five year loan term.
To sum up, despite what its affordability assessment appeared to show, I think that Trusttwo  
shouldve realised that Miss Ms credit file showed that managing her debt had got beyond 
her control, she already had debt she had been unable to repay and Trusttwo should have 
realised that this loan was likely to add to her overall indebtedness and financial difficulty. 
So, I am upholding Miss Ms complaint that she should not have been given the loan.
This means that as Miss M has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on a 
loan that she shouldnt have been provided with she has lost out as a result of what Trusttwo 
did wrong. I think Trusttwo needs to take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Trusttwo  should pay any additional redress. Miss M 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Trusttwo acted 
unfairly towards Miss M in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss M to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for a 
loan that should not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Miss M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. 
If Trusttwo has sold any outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Trusttwo isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss M received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss M made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Trusttwo should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss M.
Whilst its fair that Miss Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Trusttwo should remove any negative 
information recorded on Miss Ms credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Trusttwo to deduct tax from this interest. Trusttwo should 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Trusttwo) to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman