DRN-4323776
The complaint
Mr I complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) treated him 
unfairly when he asked it to help him obtain a full refund for a holiday he was unhappy about.
What happened
Mr I booked a package holiday with a third party travel agent I will refer to as S. The 
package holiday consisted of flights, and an all-inclusive stay in a hotel and car parking. The 
bulk of the cost of the holiday was for the flights.
Mr I booked the holiday for 9 people including himself. The holiday party consisted of 
members of Mr Is immediate and extended family. Mr I was the lead booker. Mr I used his 
AESEL credit card to book the holiday. 
Mr I and his family went on the holiday and used all the flights, the hotel accommodation and 
facilities and the car parking. However, from Mr Is perspective and that of his family it was 
not a successful holiday. In particular, Mr I was dissatisfied with several aspects of the 
standard of the service provided by the hotel. Also he was upset because he did not think 
that the hotel was a five star hotel although hed booked it believing it was. Moreover, after 
he booked the holiday, Mr I was told his flights were no longer leaving from the original 
airport and he had to accept flights from a different airport. As a result of all the things that 
had gone wrong from his point of view. Mr I had run up costs for food and for baggage 
charges he wanted these costs back too. Mr I had found the holiday stressful, and he 
wanted to be compensated for this as well. For all of these reasons Mr I  complained to 
AESEL. 
Initially AESEL declined to uphold Mr Is complaint as S had already refunded the total 
amount Mr I had paid for the flights and hotel under a process known as chargeback. In 
AESELs opinion no further refund was justified. But later it appears that the refund was 
reversed in part, and Mr I was charged again for the flights. It appears this was because S 
changed its mind and did not agree that Mr I was entitled to a refund for the flights. However, 
AESEL considered it had no proper basis to take matters any further in the light of what S 
had told it.
Mr I indicated he was unhappy about all of this. He continued to want a full refund. 
Moreover, in his opinion AESEL had not explained what was happening with the 
chargeback. For example, from his point of view, refunds appeared out of the blue and then 
were reversed in part without warning or proper explanation. Mr I also indicated that AESEL 
did not have a joined up approach and as a result he ended up explaining the same things to 
it time and again. Further, all of this was happening when Mr I was experiencing a period of 
extended ill-health and dealing with AESEL only added to his stress.
Mr I remained dissatisfied, so he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Is complaint. It seemed to our investigator that Mr Is 
complaint was about the standard of the hotel. Mr I had already received a full refund for this 
portion of his holiday. Therefore Mr I had received an appropriate remedy for this part of his 
complaint. It followed our investigator did not recommend any further refund.
That said, our investigator was persuaded that AESEL did not handle the chargeback as well 
as it should have done, in that the information AESEL provided throughout was unclear and 
sporadic. Our investigator was satisfied that this likely caused Mr I avoidable distress and 
inconvenience, he thought that £200 was an appropriate award for this.
AESEL accepted our investigators recommendation. However, it blamed Mr I for the service 
hed received from it saying hed raised the same chargeback on six separate occasions. 
Specifically it told us, 
For the record, the reason there were multiple chargeback adjustments that became 
confusing was because the card member kept calling up and requesting separate 
chargebacks.
Mr I rejected our investigators recommendation. In summary, Mr I repeated his earlier 
stance. He also objected to the recommendation on the basis that he flights were no good to 
him given that the hotel had been below the level hed been entitled to expect. Mr I also 
mentioned his loss of enjoyment. Moreover, Mr I did not agree £200 was enough to make up 
for how AESEL had behaved.
Later Mr I wrote to us again raising new points, which Ive summarised below:
He told us that hed expected to receive premium flights instead he and his party had 
to travel by budget airline.
The seating they had on the flights did not meet their needs because they were 
scattered throughout the plane. This caused both Mr I and his wife (who had been 
one of the 9 travelling with Mr I) stress and loss of enjoyment.
He had to pay for extras on the flights whereas in his opinion these extras should 
have been part and parcel of the ticket price. For example, he expected to be served 
a meal on the flight. Instead, there were only snacks which had to be paid for. This 
left his family hungry and upset and this added to the stress he and his wife 
experienced.
Mr I repeated that the hotel was substandard in his opinion. And he commented 
negatively, again, on the performance of AESEL.
Mr I pointed out the purpose of the holiday had been to help him relax but it had had 
the opposite impact, indeed, according to him it caused him personal injury. 
Moreover, he has disabilities, and he believes that he has been discriminated against 
on the basis of these disabilities.
Mr I asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr I has now also expressed dissatisfaction with the of the quality of the flights and raised 
the issues of personal injury and discrimination. These appear to be a new matters. These 
matters have therefore not been considered by AESEL in its final response to Mr I or investigated within this complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at these new matters in 
this decision.
Mr I talks about the distress and inconvenience experienced by his wife in relation to the new 
matters. But only Mr I has the standing to bring this complaint. That means I have no power 
to make an award for any distress or inconvenience experienced by his wife, even if I could 
look at these new matters, which I cannot.
AESEL had two potential routes it could have used to get Mr I a refund. These routes were a 
claim under a process known as chargeback and a claim against itself under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 and specifically under Section 75 of that act. Ill look at each of these in turn.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As Mr I paid for the package holiday using his credit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether AESEL dealt with his request fairly. The chargeback process is 
relevant in this case.
Chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for AESEL to ask for a payment Mr I  
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where services arent as 
described/misrepresented by the company Mr I paid. 
There is no guarantee that a chargeback will succeed, and it can be opposed or defended by 
the financial institution which received the card payment (it will represent the merchant), who 
may not agree that the chargeback is valid. 
That said, I would expect a credit card provider, approached by a customer looking to 
dispute a card payment for services, to consider whether it had valid grounds for raising a 
chargeback, and to do so if it would appear that a chargeback would both be compliant with 
the card scheme rules and have reasonable prospects of succeeding. As part of its 
approach Id also expect the credit card provider to select the right chargeback reason code 
and to explain the process to its customer throughout.
Therefore it follows that if I am to order AESEL to refund all or part of the cost of the holiday, 
I must be satisfied that it acted incorrectly in the way it made a chargeback claim under the 
chargeback regulations. Ive looked at what AESEL did, and the relevant regulations and I 
think  AESEL acted correctly in not going any further than it did with the chargeback. Ill 
explain why I say this below.
It appears AESEL did start the chargeback process and it appears that S defended the 
chargeback in part. The mere fact that the chargeback was defended in part does not mean 
AESEL had to go no further. But here the only reason for the chargeback was in relation to 
the hotel. Mr I was refunded in full for this. It appears that S conceded this and that is why Mr 
I got this refund (although this point is not clear from the information AESEL has provided).  
Therefore on the face of it there was nothing further to compensate Mr I for.
Further, it does not appear  (according to S at least ) that Mr I complained directly to S at the 
time, that is either when he was on holiday or when he returned. This could have prevented 
Mr I from recovering anything at all under the chargeback rules. So on that basis the fact that 
Mr I got any refund at all via this route was a better result than could have reasonably been 
expected.In addition, Mr I and his party used the flights and the car parking and there was no 
suggestion at this point that these services were not as described. So it appears that there 
was no chargeback reason that applied to these services and no route therefore using 
chargeback to get a refund for these costs.
For all of these reasons I dont agree that AESEL treated Mr I unfairly by not trying to 
continue with the chargeback to get him the full refund he wanted. 
As Ive already mentioned Mr I might have had a claim against AESEL under Section 75. 
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr I has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring a like claim against AESEL provided certain 
conditions are met. 
It is not entirely clear if those conditions are met in this instance. But I dont need to go into 
this point further because even if I did think those conditions were met Id still not uphold this 
part of the complaint. I say this because even if I was satisfied that there had been breaches 
of contract and/or misrepresentation Id not award Mr I anything more than he has already 
received. There is no dispute that Mr I has been refunded already for what he paid for the 
hotel. Mr I and his party did use the hotel. Yet despite this full use he has had a full refund. In 
other words Mr I has effectively paid nothing for the hotel stay which goes over and above 
what I think he is fairly and reasonably entitled to expect. If I had upheld this part of Mr Is 
complaint I would only have awarded a partial refund of the hotel costs. I do find it likely that 
Mr I had loss of enjoyment, but I think that the refund he has got compensates him for this 
too.
Im aware Mr I is asking for a full refund, i.e. he wants back the money he paid not just for 
the hotels but for the flights, food, baggage and car parking too,  but I dont agree thats fair 
and reasonable as I have already said. I cannot see that it would be right to say that a full 
refund should be made - that would wrongly imply that no service at all had been received. 
Moreover, the food and the baggage costs did not flow from anything that AESEL or S did 
wrong. So that is another reason why I cant fairly order AESEL to refund these costs.
For completeness Ill add Mr I agreed to the change of airport. Therefore I dont think that 
there is any misrepresentation or breach of contract in relation to this complaint point in any 
event.
For all of these reasons Ive no proper basis to say AESEL must give Mr I the full refund he 
asks it for.
That said, I can well understand why Mr I was dissatisfied with what AESEL told him about 
how it was dealing with the chargeback. The information it provided was confusing and the 
explanations were scarce. I dont think it is appropriate for AESEL to point to Mr I and 
suggest he caused the confusion. It was open to AESEL to tell Mr I it would not start six 
separate chargeback claims for the same matter it did not. This then led to the muddle that 
ensued thats down to AESEL. I think it likely this did cause Mr I to experience distress and 
inconvenience and that it is fair and reasonable that I should make an award for this.
I recognise Mr I does not think £200 is enough. But in the circumstances I consider that £200 
is fair and reasonable. I do not therefore consider that it would be correct for me to require 
AESEL to pay Mr I any more than it has already agreed to do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited must pay Mr I £200 for 
distress and inconvenience as it has already agreed to do.
American Express Services Europe Limited must pay the £200 within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr I accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the £200 from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr I can reclaim the tax if he is able to.
Mr I should refer back to American Express Services Europe Limited if he is unsure of the 
approach it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want 
to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman