DRN-3411475
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax failed to correctly credit his 
account after making a cash deposit.
What happened
Mr J wanted to deposit a large amount of cash and spoke with Halifax to advise them about 
this. Mr J wanted a private room available to count it so it was out of view of the public area 
of the branch.
Mr J then attended a branch of Halifax and due to the size of the cash deposit, the branch 
manager decided that it needed to be counted in a secure cash room which meant that Mr J 
couldnt witness the count himself. Mr J advised Halifax of the amount he was depositing 
and that it had been counted several times by family members.
A large portion of the cash was still in bank wrappings having being previously withdrawn 
from a Halifax some time earlier. A smaller portion of the cash was in loose notes. The cash 
was removed to a secure counting room to use the banks cash counting machine due to the 
amount. It was arranged that two branch staff including a manager were present throughout 
the count and when it was counted, there was a discrepancy of £400 between what Mr J had 
said was being deposited and what the bank counted.
The cash was counted a further two times with the same result and Mr J was advised of the 
difference. He was unhappy with how the count had been handled because hed been 
unable to witness it. Mr J was convinced that the actual amount hed brought into the bank 
was what hed originally told them prior to the count and not what the bank were telling him 
(that it was £400 less than he believed hed brought in).
Mr J complained about the deposit and Halifax investigated what had happened. Mr J 
believed that staff members at the branch were responsible for the loss of his funds. Halifax 
conducted an internal investigation about what had happened and were satisfied theyd done 
nothing wrong and their count had been correct. 
During the complaint, Mr J thought Halifax had ignored his concerns because he expected a 
call from them which wasnt made and didnt receive a copy of their final response. Halifax 
confirmed theyd sent the final response and sent a second copy. They accepted theyd not 
called Mr J back and made a £20 payment to him for this oversight. 
Mr J remained unhappy with how Halifax had handled the deposit of his cash and brought 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review. Mr Js complaint was 
looked into by one of our investigators who thought it was likely the count that Halifax had 
made had been correct and the payment for the missed call was reasonable. Mr Js 
complaint wasnt upheld. He disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of 
his complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint made by Mr J revolves around the counting of the cash he brought into the 
bank to deposit into his account. When he phoned up to notify the bank about it, he was 
expecting to be able to accompany the cash in a private room when it was counted. I can 
understand why he did this and his unhappiness when he wasnt allowed into the banks 
cash room when it was finally counted. 
Halifax have said its for the manager of the branch to have discretion about how to handle 
sums as large as this. In Mr Js case, the branch staff were uncomfortable with counting the 
cash in a private interview room, which wasnt secured to the same level as the cash room. 
Using the cash room meant it was more secure and had the banks cash counting machine 
available, which was necessary for such a large deposit. That also meant that Mr J couldnt 
accompany the cash into this secure room.
The decision to use the cash counting room seemed a sensible one because of the security 
and the counting machine, but I think it inadvertently led to the disagreement between the 
two parties. Thats because Mr J was convinced of the amount hed brought with him which 
had also been counted by other family members. I dont think Mr J had any evidence of the 
actual count at his home and I wouldnt expect him to have done so. But, when Halifax made 
their count, it was apparent that the actual amount was different to what Mr J believed hed 
brought in. 
Halifaxs approach was to ensure two people were present during the count. Halifaxs 
investigation didnt raise any issues with what went on that day and they conducted further 
checks within the branch to check whether excess funds were present anywhere else  
which there werent. So, I think Halifax have shown that the funds which were given to them 
were properly counted. I realise its not possible to determine exactly what went on  but I 
think on the balance of probabilities that the money deposited by Mr J was appropriately 
counted by Halifax in the counting room. Theres no plausible explanation or evidence to 
show it was anything other than an error between what Mr J thought hed brought in and 
what was counted by Halifax. 
After Mr J complained, he felt he was ignored which Halifax denied. They did admit to not 
calling him because a note of Mr Js request wasnt recorded, and paid Mr J £20 for this 
oversight. Halifax sent two copies of their final response letter and couldnt explain why Mr J 
hadnt received the first one  but they didnt accept that theyd failed to send it to him. Once 
the letter was sent, it was, to an extent, out of Halifaxs hands. I dont think they needed to 
do anything further at that point as they believed the letter would be delivered to Mr J. Once 
they were alerted to the lack of delivery, Halifax sent a further copy and thats what Id 
expect them to do. I think the payment for the missed return call was a reasonable one and I 
wont be asking them to do anything further.
Overall, I think Halifax acted reasonably when they counted the money in the cash room 
because of the amount Mr J had brought in. They had security issues to consider and the 
use of the counting machine was necessary to process the deposit. Theres no evidence that 
Halifax made any errors when they counted the money, nor of any involvement of Halifax 
staff in the removal of Mr Js funds.
I do think that Halifax could have explained their approach better  which would have 
enabled Mr J to understand what would happen at the branch. He was, understandably, 
expecting to be able to accompany the cash whilst it was counted, and I think it was this that upset him. I would say though, that even if Mr J understood he couldnt accompany the cash 
 this situation probably wouldnt have been any different. Thats because he would probably 
still have thought he brought more into the bank than was eventually counted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman