DRN-2870820
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Nationwide Building Society misadvised them into taking out a 
joint Portfolio Bond in May 2011.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs G met with Nationwide to discuss investing a lump sum of £35,000 for the longer 
term, with a view to generating a greater return than they could receive on deposit based 
accounts, given that interest rates had reduced considerably following the downturn in the 
economic climate. 
Mr and Mrs G were deemed as having a low appetite for risk, with limited investment 
experience or knowledge. Given they wanted to make small withdrawals from the investment 
(of 5% or £1,750) the adviser proposed a Portfolio bond with Legal & General, with the 
investment split over four different L&G funds.  
In March 2020, Mr G requested to withdraw funds from the bond, but due to a suspended 
fund he was only able to make a partial withdrawal. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs G 
complained and by this time, the investment had been taken over by ReAssure. 
Mr and Mrs G also complained to Nationwide about the sale of the bond in the first place. 
They said they werent given sufficient information at the time of the sale regarding taxation 
and commission, they felt that the bond was potentially too risky for them, they did not feel 
like they had received a fair return for their investment and they did not realise that the Fund 
Managers could suspend trading on a particular fund.  
Nationwide didnt agree that Mr and Mrs G werent fully informed about the investment 
including details on commission, tax and fund suspension. It said the adviser gave Mr and 
Mrs G sufficient information about how their investment worked. 
But it did agree that the investment posed too much risk for their documented circumstances 
given their lack of investment experience and reluctance to take risk with their capital. On 
that basis, it upheld the complaint that the bond was mis-sold.  
Nationwide said it would carry out a calculation to see if Mr and Mrs G had been 
disadvantaged through investing, rather than keeping their funds on deposit. It obtained the 
relevant information about the bond from ReAssure with Mr and Mrs G with their consent 
and ascertained the value as at December 2020. Nationwide confirmed they had made a 
comparative gain and therefore no further redress was due.  
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He said as at December 2020 Mr and Mrs Gs investment (after any applicable 
fees and withdrawals have been applied) was worth £1,404.45 more than it would have been 
had the funds been left on deposit. And Mr and Mrs G said they would have left their funds in 
a savings account. So, although the investment wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs G they hadnt 
been financially disadvantaged. As such, he thought Nationwide offered a reasonable 
resolution to the complaint. 
Though he neednt have gone further, the investigator also explained to Mr and Mrs G that 
he didnt think that they had been adversely affected by Nationwide ceasing advice on 
products of this nature in 2019 because Mr and Mrs G did not have an ongoing advice 
relationship with Nationwide. Further, he explained how commission worked under the policy 
and that though Mr and Mrs G felt some correspondence on suspended funds showed the 
bond was unsuitable for long term investments, this was not the case. A separate complaint 
had also been made to the bond provider about the suspended fund.  
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs G for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. On my review of the evidence, I have reached the same outcome as our 
investigator. Im sorry that this will not be the decision Mr and Mrs G have hoped for but I do 
not believe Nationwide ought to do anything differently in respect of its redress calculation. 
This complaint has been upheld and there isnt a requirement for me to review that outcome, 
since both parties agree that Nationwide shouldnt have made the recommendation it did in 
2011  as this investment represented more risk than Mr and Mrs G were willing to take. 
Where the parties disagree is over the calculation Nationwide has undertaken which shows 
no redress is due to Mr and Mrs G.  
I do note Mr and Mrs G have also raised some continued concerns about the information 
they were given at the time of the sale about commission, the effect of withdrawals and cost 
charges and later, a letter from ReAssure when one of their funds was partially suspended. 
Nationwide is not responsible for the suspension correspondence as it does not operate the 
bond  it is for that reason ReAssure wrote to Mr and Mrs G. Otherwise, I consider 
Nationwide acted fairly when not upholding the other aspects of the complaint as the 
evidence shows, on balance, that Mr and Mrs G were given sufficient information about how 
the investment operated. 
For example, the first paragraph of guidance booklet regarding the bond sets out clearly that 
the investment is a way of investing a cash sum over the long term and it goes on to 
explain you will be able to take a regular withdrawal from the Portfolio Bond as well as 
explaining tax treatment for the investment. But in any event, I even if these points were 
upheld, the outcome of this complaint would be the same  Nationwide has agreed that Mr 
and Mrs G should not have been recommended the policy in the first place and the 
resolution for that is to work out what would have happened if Mr and Mrs G had never taken 
out the bond.  
Turning to the redress, I have considered Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of the 
sale and what theyve said now regarding having left their funds in a savings account 
instead. I dont disagree with that, and neither does Nationwide. I realise Mr G has said that 
some savings accounts offered returns of 4% in 2011, which is higher than the average rate 
from fixed rate bonds. But that was a 12-month fixed term offer from a different business.  
The parties accept that Mr and Mrs G would have invested differently and in my view, it is 
not possible to say precisely what they would have done differently. However, it likely they 
would have left their funds in a deposit account without any exposure to risk. Therefore, Nationwide has used the correct benchmark for redress that we would have proposed if the 
complaint had been upheld by this service. 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, Nationwides aim should be to put Mr and 
Mrs G as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice. That is because:
Mr and Mrs G wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr and Mrs 
G's circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs G would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could 
have obtained with little risk to their capital.
In the circumstances, I believe that Barclays has conducted a fair and reasonable redress 
calculation, and it has supplied us evidence of its workings. Since that calculation showed Mr 
and Mrs G have not made a material loss, I cannot ask Nationwide to do anything further.  
My final decision
I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman