DRN-2843068
The complaint
 Mr H complains about QIC Europe Limiteds (QIC) poor level of service he received when 
he tried to make a claim under his home insurance policy. 
 
What happened
 Mr H contacted QIC as water was coming into his home. It said that a surveyor would 
contact him within seven working days. During the call, QIC told Mr H that a claim could 
have the potential in affecting any future premiums. A few days later when he hadnt heard 
anything from the surveyor, he chased QIC, who told him to wait until the seven working day 
period expired. 
After the time period had elapsed, Mr H still hadnt heard from the surveyor, so he contacted 
QIC again. It told him that the surveyor who it instructed hadnt received the instructions due 
to an error. QIC then arranged for another surveyor to attend. But it told Mr H that he would 
have to wait another seven working days to be contacted.  
Mr H was in the process of selling his home and didnt want any further delays. So, he 
decided to pay for the repairs to be carried out. 
Mr H withdrew his claim and was told by QIC that despite him withdrawing his claim, it would 
still have to report the details of the incident on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
register (CUE). Mr H was unhappy about this and raised a complaint. 
In its final response, QIC relied upon the policy terms and conditions, as well as the call 
handlers advice. The terms of the policy stated that when a policy holder informed QIC of an 
incident, it had to pass the information about it to the CUE. Also, its call handler informed Mr 
H about this when he called to make the claim and so he was aware of this term. QIC said 
that it was satisfied that Mr Hs claim had been correctly logged. 
Mr H was unhappy with this outcome and referred a complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint, he partially upheld Mr Hs complaint. He said that the 
information that was contained on the CUE was accurate and it was fair for QIC to have 
passed the information to the register. But his view was that QICs handling of the claim 
meant that Mr H had to withdraw his claim, and for this he recommended that QIC pay Mr H 
£100 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr H accepted our investigators view. 
QIC didnt accept his view. It said that although Mr H was dissatisfied due to the delayed 
response from the initial surveyor, it didnt agree that compensation was warranted. So, it 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will be upholding Mr Hs complaint and I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Both parties accept that the entry on the CUE accords with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. I have looked at the information that was recorded and I agree that it was an accurate 
indication of what happened. I think that the main issue here is whether QIC ought to pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr H. 
QIC said that compensation wasnt warranted as Mr H chose to cancel the claim before the 
second surveyor had had a chance to contact him. It also said that as it wasnt an 
emergency service, the attendance of a surveyor would not resolve any issues with damage 
occurring at the property. The surveyor would merely attend to assess the damage. 
I have reviewed the timeline: 
Mr H contacted QIC to make a claim due to a leak. He was told that a surveyor would 
contact him within seven working days. 
A few days later when he hadnt heard anything Mr H contacted QIC again to be told 
that the surveyor would be in touch. 
After the seven working day period had past, Mr H chased QIC again to be told that 
another surveyor would be instructed. But he would have to wait another seven 
working days for the new surveyor to contact him.
Mr H then cancelled the claim due to the delay he experienced and paid for the repair 
work himself.
Mr H said that he had told QIC about his need to have his claim resolved quickly. He was 
told by QIC that a surveyor would attend his home within seven working days. This did not 
happen. He chased QIC when he hadnt heard from the surveyor and instead of QIC 
contacting that surveyor on Mr Hs behalf, it told him to wait until the surveyor contacted him.  
This surveyor still didnt contact him. 
Mr H had to again contact QIC when the surveyor hadnt contacted him within the promised 
timeframe. To be told that he would have to wait a further seven working day period for a 
different surveyor to contact him. It seems to me that Mr H only cancelled his claim because 
of the delay in QIC providing a surveyor. 
QIC acknowledged that it was regrettable that the first surveyor failed to contact Mr H. But in 
failing to do so, Mr Hs claim could not be progressed. I am satisfied that Mr H did 
experienced delay and for the poor level of service, I think it is fair for QIC to recognise this. 
 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I think QIC ought to pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset caused, 
due to the poor service he experienced.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Limited should pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman