DRN-3258553
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited didnt settle all of a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs K had two holidays booked to a country Ill refer to as S in March and June 2020. She 
flew with her young child to S on 11 March 2020, the same day that the World Health 
Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global pandemic. S went into lockdown a few 
days later with all international travel connections suspended, including flight, rail and road. 
Mrs K and her child were unable to leave S. 
In May 2020 Mrs K became aware that she was pregnant. She waited to see if she could 
use her flight in June to return to the UK but that was also cancelled as S continued to 
extend its lockdown. Mrs Ks baby was due in October 2020. So, on 3 June 2020 Mr K 
started to drive to S to collect Mrs K and their child. They started their return journey on 
19 June 2020 as Mr K had to self-isolate on his arrival in S. 
Mr and Mrs K claimed for various additional expenses that they had incurred including food, 
fuel, hotels, wear and tear to their car and time off from work. They calculated this to be 
around £5000 in total. UKI said that the only section of the policy which offered cover was 
the delayed departure section. The policy benefit was a maximum of £250 per person and so 
they agreed to pay £500 to Mr and Mrs K to reflect the expenses caused by the delayed 
departure to Mrs K and their child. Unhappy Mr and Mrs K complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She noted 
that Mrs K had returned outside of the maximum 31 day limit in set out in the policy and 
there wasnt evidence that shed attempted to get back via a repatriation flight in line with 
guidance from the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO). And she 
thought that UKI had fairly considered the claim under the delayed departure section of the 
policy. So, she didnt think that it was unreasonable to offer Mr and Mrs K the maximum 
policy benefit of £500. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said it 
wasnt anticipated that theyd need to extend the trip so it wasnt possible to buy trip 
extension cover before Mrs K left. And they explained that there were no repatriation flights 
from S to the UK so there was no point in them contacting the British Embassy for help with 
repatriation to the UK.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers have a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I have a lot of empathy for Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances. I can understand why being 
separated during a pandemic, especially when Mrs K was pregnant and Mr K was on the 
frontline of the NHSs response to the pandemic, was very stressful and worrying. I can 
completely understand why Mr K took the decision to drive to S to get Mrs K and their young 
child and bring them home. I dont doubt that it was a challenging and difficult time. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think Mr and Mrs K made reasonable efforts to return to 
the UK. Mr K has provided copies of emails he sent to the prime minister of S and 
information about a lack of repatriation flights. However, even if I accept the evidence on that 
point, I still wouldnt uphold this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Ive considered whether there is any cover available under the relevant sections of the 
policy. Mrs K didnt cancel her trip as she departed on her holiday as planned. That means 
that there is no cover under the cancellation section of the policy. And Mrs K didnt cut her 
trip short as she stayed longer than shed planned to. So, there is no cover under the 
curtailment section of the policy because the trip wasnt cut short  it was extended.  
I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude that the most relevant section of the 
policy was the missed, delayed or abandoned departure section of the policy which says: 
We will pay £10 per insured person after the first two hours and an additional 
£10 every following four hours up to a limit of £250 if you have arrived at your 
point of departure or connection and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is 
delayed. You must have already checked in.
Due to the circumstances Mrs K didnt arrive at her departure point or check in but I think 
UKI have acted fairly by concluding that she should have the benefit of cover under this 
section due to the unprecedented circumstances surrounding the pandemic. Theyve offered 
to pay the maximum benefit to Mrs K and her child under this section of the policy which I 
think is fair. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K as I appreciate that they were in a very difficult 
position. But their travel insurance policy doesnt cover every eventuality. It specifies what is 
and isnt covered under the policy. The only section of this policy which provides cover is the 
delay section and UKI has offered the maximum benefit available under this section. And I 
dont think there are any fair and reasonable grounds upon which I can direct UKI to settle 
the claim outside of the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman