DRN-2525364
The complaint
Mr Js complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
unfairly deducted two excess payments from the settlement of his pet insurance claim.
What happened
Mr J had a pet insurance cover for his cat with Red Sands.  The policy was renewed on       
1 September each year.
Mr J was concerned his cat was losing weight, so he decided to take her to the vet.  He says 
he had some difficulty making an appointment because of Covid 19 restrictions.  The first 
appointment was in late August.  Mr J was told that he needed to bring his cat back for 
further tests.  The second appointment was made for early September.
When the vet had finished their investigations, Mr J submitted a claim to Red Sands for the 
costs.  He knew an excess would be deducted from the claim.  But, when he received the 
settlement, he found Red Sands had deducted two excesses, because the claim had 
extended over two policy years. 
Mr J complained.  Red Sands investigated his complaint and rejected it.  They said their 
policy terms and conditions made it clear an excess is payable per condition, per policy year.  
And Mr Js cats treatment had gone across two policy years  so theyd been entitled to 
deduct two excesses.
Mr J wasnt happy with Red Sands response.  So he brought his complaint to us.  He told us 
he didnt think deducting two excesses was fair, because his cat was receiving continuous 
treatment  which just happened to straddle the policy renewal date.  And, had he not had 
difficulty making an appointment, the treatment wouldve been done in one policy year or the 
other.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js concerns but didnt think Red Sands shouldve done 
anything differently.  He said the policy documents made clear how theyd apply the policy 
excess.  And Red Sands applied it to Mr Js claim in line with the policy.  
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.  Ill explain why.
I do understand why Mr Js unhappy.  He couldnt choose when his cat became unwell.  And 
I understand its likely to have been more difficult to make an appointment with the vet in the 
current climate.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands dealt with Mr Js claim promptly and fairly  
and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
So Ive started by considering the relevant policy terms.  The commencement date is defined 
as:
the date and time when cover first starts as noted on your schedule
In this case, the date noted on the schedule is 1 September.  So Im satisfied that was 
clearly communicated to Mr J.
The schedule also shows the policy excess.  And theres a note which says:
This is payable per condition, per policy year.
Again, I think thats clear.  But the policy also has a frequently asked questions section, 
which includes the following:
What does the veterinary fees claim excess mean?
The excess is the amount that you pay towards each accident, illness or condition you claim 
for. You will pay an excess for each new condition and this will be deducted from the first 
claim relating to that condition. If you claim for the same condition over multiple policy 
years (i.e. following annual renewal of the policy) you will find a new excess is 
deducted each year.
I think that makes absolutely clear how Red Sands will apply the excess.  And Im satisfied 
they applied it to Mr Js claim in line with this.
Ive thought about Mr Js comments that he was forced to delay getting treatment by the 
current Covid restrictions.  I looked to see what evidence there is to support what hes told 
us.
The claim form completed by the vet asks them when the owner (in this case, Mr J) first 
noticed signs of a problem.  Thats recorded as August 2020, with no specific date.  And Mr 
Js cat was first treated towards the end of August.  That doesnt show me theres been a 
delay.
And Ive reviewed the vets notes.  They dont record how long the cat had been showing 
symptoms  or that thered been any delay in the first consultation.  And the second 
appointment was just over a week after the first.  So I cant say that there was an unusual 
delay which Red Sands shouldve taken into account.  And I dont think they shouldve dealt 
with Mr Js claim any differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint about Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman