DRN-3460808
The complaint
Two limited companies, A1 and A2, both trading as a company I will call B, have 
complained about the refusal of a business interruption claim under a Commercial 
Combined Insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
Mrs M, a director of A1 and A2, has brought the complaint on their behalf.
What happened
B consists of a group of three nursery schools, all covered under the same insurance policy 
with RSA (albeit each with its own schedule of insurance) arranged for them by an 
independent insurance intermediary. 
In March 2020, B contacted RSA to make a claim for business interruption losses affecting 
all three nurseries, as a result of the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
While there are three premises, operating within two limited companies (A1 and A2), the 
policy holder is B, so it is appropriate to have one complaint about the claim arising from the 
closure of all three premises from the same date in March 2020. There were later claims, 
which affected each nursery at different times, which I understand have been settled, so they 
are not relevant to this complaint and this decision. 
RSA said the policy did not cover Bs claim. It said the policy provided cover for loss due to 
closure or restrictions of Bs premises only if there was an outbreak of a notifiable contagious 
or infectious disease at the premises (under an extension of the business interruption 
section of cover). RSA thought that Bs business had been impacted by the Governments 
imposed restrictions, rather than because someone at its premises had Covid-19. RSA 
therefore turned down Bs claim. 
Mrs M is very unhappy about this. Mrs M says she first took out the policy in 2014 and had 
only ever received a policy brochure and has never been provided with any document that 
says any claim would have to be the result of a case of disease at the premises, relied on by 
RSA to refuse the claim. Mrs M questioned when that had been added to her policy and 
didnt think it applied to her contract of insurance. 
It was established that the policy schedule sent to B at renewal, did not include the extension 
for notifiable disease cover and the policy wording did not contain the disease extension. 
RSA says these two documents together form the insurance contract and so on the face of it 
there was no cover at all for business interruption arising from infectious disease. RSA 
apologised that the correct policy schedule had not been sent out but said the policy cover 
has been the same since B first took out the policy in 2014 and has always included the 
notifiable diseases extension. It has acted reasonably in honouring the intention that the 
policy include this cover despite it being missing from the policy schedule in error.   
RSA said the policy only covers closure as a result of an occurrence or outbreak of a 
notifiable disease at Bs premises and no evidence of any case of Covid-19 at the premises 
had been provided. It therefore maintained its position that the premises were required to 
close due to the national Government restrictions and this is not covered under this policy. 
RSA also apologised that advice on a website run by the intermediary (not RSA) for insured 
businesses which had the notifiable disease cover, from 11 to 19 March 2020 was not 
correct. I understand the advice suggested that those with the same cover that B had might 
be covered under the infectious diseases extension of their policy. This was amended on 19 
March 2020 to make clear that the policy term required an occurrence of the disease at the 
premises and that the maximum indemnity period was up to three months. RSA paid £2,000 
for any frustration and additional administrative burden this caused B. 
RSA also reviewed the claim after receiving the Supreme Courts judgement on the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case, in which it considered 
how various business interruption polices should respond to claims (but not the policy that B 
has) and stated this did not impact Bs claim. 
In its submissions to this service, RSA also said that B was not in fact required to close 
entirely in March 2020. As a childcare setting, RSA said B was allowed to continue to offer 
care for certain categories of children. The policy only covers closure of the premises and 
they were not ordered or required to close by any Government or local authority as required 
by the policy. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not consider it should be upheld, as 
she was satisfied RSA was entitled to refuse the claim for the reasons it had. 
Mrs M didnt accept the Investigators assessment. She has made a number of submissions, 
in response to the Investigator and in the initial complaint. Ive considered them all but have 
summarised the main points below: 
B pays a significant additional premium for Infectious Disease Cover for each of its 
properties. Mrs M reviewed Bs cover when Covid-19 first started appearing in this 
country and spoke to the broker to ask them to send all its policy documents to 
review, to ensure it was not missing anything vital. The broker confirmed that cover 
would be considered should the nursery schools be shut as a result of Government 
restriction to try and contain the outbreak. 
After reviewing the documentation, B was satisfied it would be covered for a 
Government shutdown of our nursery business, as the documentation it had did not 
state that any occurrence of the disease had to be at its premises. The clause in its 
policy simply says it covers: closure of the settings premises due to notifiable 
disease.  
Mrs M has other businesses that she knew might also be affected by a potential 
lockdown and obtained additional insurance where she thought they might not be 
covered but did not take out additional cover for B as the existing policy with RSA 
covers this event.
The policy does not have any relevant exclusion for this claim and none of its 
documentation includes the wording of the infectious clauses extension relied on by 
RSA. 
Mrs M has suggested the restrictive wording of the extension was added later and is 
a fabrication intended to prevent small businesses like B from submitting claims.
There are no policy documents attached to the my account section of the 
intermediarys website, so it could not check them.
Several parts of the Supreme Courts judgement in the test case, and the FCAs 
resulting guidance, support the claim. The FCA has made it clear that it expects that 
insurers will act fairly in considering and paying out on claims.It has been in touch with the Serious Fraud Office and been encouraged to file a 
complaint with them. It is also speaking with the media who are very interested in 
running this story.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business policies provide protection for some of the common things which might happen to a 
business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may provide 
different cover. 
Bs policy provides cover for various losses, including those arising out of business 
interruption caused by various events. 
Bs claim 
Bs policy provides cover for various losses, including those arising out of business 
interruption caused by specified events. I have considered the entire policy carefully to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Bs claim. 
The main part of cover I think might be relevant to this claim is the extension to the business 
interruption section of cover that covers loss as a result of infectious disease: 
The word Damage is extended to include closure of the Premises or part thereof on 
the order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result of an outbreak 
or occurrence at the Premises of 
a) any human contagious or infectious disease other than Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition, an outbreak of which 
is required by law or stipulated by the governmental authority to be notified
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Bs claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of an outbreak or 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic. Also, the 
Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms 
of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce 
a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
We consider that it is necessary to take a pragmatic approach, and to consider whether 
evidence (other than a positive test result) can be provided that supports, on balance, that 
Covid-19 manifested at the insured premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of 
proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which 
their policy covers. There has been no suggestion that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
The evidence is that B closed as a result of the Governments response to the pandemic. I 
therefore do not think this clause would provide cover for Bs claim. 
Bs policy terms
RSA says the policy wording did not contain the infectious disease extension but it should 
have been included as an endorsement on the policy schedule for June 2019 to June 2020. 
It is accepted that the policy schedule provided to B for the policy year June 2019 to June 
2020 didnt include any mention of the notifiable diseases extension in the schedule at all, 
which was an error. So on the face of it, there was no cover for infectious diseases at all but 
RSA does not dispute that the level of cover that B bought includes the notifiable disease 
extension cover. 
B says it never received any documentation with the full policy term in but it did receive a 
policy brochure that explained the notifiable disease cover, which didnt say there was any 
restriction to that and made no reference to there needing to be a case at the premises. B 
says this brochure therefore forms part of the insurance contract and is binding and as it 
didnt receive anything different. Mrs M says this is also what was sent to her when she 
asked the intermediary for confirmation of the cover in place in 2014 and when it asked more 
recently it just got copies of the schedules that didnt mention the extension. 
The policy brochure B refers to appears to be a promotional brochure published by the 
intermediary to help early years settings choose the level of cover they want. It sets out the 
various policies provided and states that cover level 5 (which B had) included closure of the 
settings premises due to notifiable disease, murder, suicide or pests. 
While this document did not set out the full term, it makes clear that it is only a summary of 
cover available. In any event, I also note the policy brochure is dated March 2018 to March 
2019 and so does not apply to the relevant policy year of June 2019 to June 2020. 
I do not think that the policy brochure produced by the intermediary forms part of the 
insurance contract between B and RSA for the policy year June 2019 to June 2020. 
B has also said that the policy document was not available on the intermediarys website, but 
this is not operated by RSA and B has provided a video showing it could access the full 
policy document, even though its insurance schedule and documents were not attached 
under its individual user account. I do not therefore agree that the problems with the 
documentation provided to B means RSA is not entitled to rely on the policy term. 
The error by RSA was not sending the policy schedule with the correct wording. The policy 
schedule it did send didnt include any cover for notifiable diseases and the policy wording 
which was available to B online didnt mention the disease extension. So the documents 
provided by RSA didnt say anything about the disease extension. RSA was not therefore 
responsible in my opinion for B thinking that there was disease cover which would cover any 
occurrence of disease, without any restriction. I am satisfied that the full term does form part 
of the contract of insurance. 
Mrs M has also said shed have changed the cover for B if she had known there would have 
needed to be a case at the premises for closure of the business to be covered. She has said 
she was able to do so for other businesses. This is being considered under a separate 
complaint and so I will not address it here. Advice on website 
I understand there was some online advice on the intermediarys website in the period 11 to 
19 March 2020 relating to the Covid-19 pandemic. RSA apologised this was wrong and 
asked for evidence of any losses arising from Bs reliance on this advice and paid £2,000 
compensation for this. As it was not responsible for this information, I think this is reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman