DRN-3559466
The complaint
Ms C has complained to Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) about the sale of two
free-standing additional contribution (FSAVC) plans. Wesleyan has upheld the complaint but
Ms C doesnt agree with the redress methodology its used to calculate the loss shes
suffered as a result of the FSAVC plans being mis-sold.
Ms C is being represented in her complaint by a claims management company. And both
Ms Cs representative and Wesleyan have actuaries assisting them with this matter.
What happened
In 1995, Ms C was advised by Wesleyan to take out a FSAVC plan, making gross 
contributions of £170.42 per month. At the time, Ms C was a member of her employers
occupational pension scheme (OPS). The paperwork completed at the time of the sale,
indicated that Ms C intended to retire at the age of 55. In 1998, Ms C met with Wesleyan 
again and took out another FSAVC plan, paying gross contributions of £117.68 per month.
Ms C paid into both plans until April 2011. In June 2019 both plans were transferred to an
existing SIPP that Ms C held with another provider.
In 2019, Ms Cs representative complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plans.
Wesleyan upheld the complaint as it wasnt satisfied the adviser explained the in-house
options Ms C had for topping up her pension through her OPS. And although Ms C had said
in her complaint letter that she would have bought added years, Wesleyan said that the
paperwork from the time of the sale showed that Ms C wanted to retire at the age of 55. And
so it said it would be completing a calculation on a charges only basis, i.e. a comparison of
charges between the FSAVC plan and the in-house additional voluntary contribution (AVC)
plan, as it was satisfied Ms C would have gone into the in-house AVC scheme and not the
added years arrangement.
Wesleyan instructed its actuaries to carry-out a calculation on a charges only basis. In its
final response, Wesleyan only addressed the 1998 sale, however, the redress calculation
incorporated the 1995 sale as well.
In September 2019, Wesleyan wrote to Ms Cs representative. It said that having completed
its review and calculations it had determined that Ms C had not suffered a loss as a result of
the advice she received to take the FSAVCs instead of being a member of the in-house AVC
scheme from March 1995 onwards. Its letter said:
We have completed the calculation assuming the same level and incidence of
contribution to the AVC arrangement available from the NHS Pension Scheme as
was made to the FSAVC plans. Contributions were paid from March 1995 to April
2011 to [plan 1] and invested in a With Profits Fund. This Plan has an attaching
Guaranteed Annuity Rate.
From April 1998 to April 2011 further contributions were paid into [plan 2] and
invested in a United Linked Fund.
Both Plans were cancelled, and the fund values transferred to [new provider] in June
2019. This transfer is disregarded for the purposes of the loss assessment because
the transfer was not advised by Wesleyan. That is, the above Plans are treated as
having remained with Wesleyan after June 2019 and the values used are those that
would have applied had the Plans continued in force.
The investment charges levied by the Scheme were obtained as were the investment
charges applied to the FSAVC Plans. The comparison assumes that [Ms C] would
have invested in the lower cost funds available from Equitable Life and allows for the
investment charge differences up to 25 May 2020.
Both Plans were written to run to age 55. It is assumed that if the transfer had not
occurred [Ms C] would have drawn the benefits from the [plan 1 & 2] at age 56 and
would have taken 25% of the fund as tax free cash and the balance of the fund as an
annuity on the guaranteed terms.
The calculations were carried out as at 1 July 2019. On this basis, up to 1 July 2019,
the value of the investment charges incurred within the FSAVC Plans was higher
than that under the AVC option by:
- £14,294.21 [plan 1] and
- £3,093.02 [plan 2].
After allowance for the effect of future investment charges up to 25 May 2020, the
gross value of the difference in charges is:
- £14,986.59 [plan 1] and
- £3,192.40 [plan 2]
A total of £18,178.99.
The Plan [plan 1] benefited from a valuable Guaranteed Annuity Option (GAO) which
provided for a much enhanced annuity at retirement by comparison with a
competitive annuity expected to be available in the annuity market. The fair value for
the enhancement is found by applying the calculation methodology established by
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for defined benefits.
Under the GAO at age 56 there is a guarantee of £5.525 per £100.00 (of the fund
value) payable monthly in advance guaranteed 5 years and with no increases. [Plan
1] had a fund value as at 1 July 2019 of £140,251.59. To use the funds to purchase
an equivalent annuity based on the FCA calculation methodology for defined
benefits, assuming retirement at age 56, would require an amount now of
£195,204.83, a notional fund enhancement of £54,953.24.
Comparing the total charges loss of £18,178.99 with the notional fund enhancement
of £54,953,24 due the GAO there is a gain of £36,774.25. As a result, no
compensation is due as our calculations show that [Ms C ] has incurred no financial
loss.
Ms Cs representative had concerns about the methodology so it challenged this with
Wesleyan. In summary it said that the guidance states that GAO's on FSAVCs should not be
included in charges only loss assessments. This is because the calculation tables on pages
62, 63 & 65 of the guidance only include the following wording for the FSAVC side of the
loss calculation, "The value of the charges incurred on the FSAVC fund up to the CalculationDate allowing for accumulation at the benchmark index" i.e., only the charges in the FSAVC
should be modelled.
Wesleyan responded to Ms Cs representative. It said:
 , we remain of the view that it is not inappropriate to allow for the value of a
guaranteed annuity option in such calculations. The FSA document is clear that the
tables given are for guidance only and may not cover every scenario, also that where
an FSAVC plan offers a valuable guarantee it may be included and indeed may be
the reason for a 'no loss' conclusion. This is explained in the following preceding
paragraphs on pages 59 and 60 of the guidance; -
6.24.1 The tables below set out how loss should normally be calculated for
prospective and actual loss cases. There are different tables for the various
categories of investor.
6.24.2 These tables are for guidance only. They may not cover all situations and
should not be taken to exclude other elements that may be appropriate in particular
circumstances. Worked examples of how to use them in practice are in Annex C.        
6.25 Firms may wish to investigate whether there has in fact been no financial loss
suffered despite the possible loss of employer matching contributions, subsidised
benefits or lower level of charges in the in-house AVC arrangement.
6.25.1 If the investor has lost out on employer matching contributions or other
subsidised benefits, it is almost certain that a loss will have occurred. However, an
example of circumstances when a loss will not have occurred is where the
investment performance of the FSAVC has exceeded that of the in-house AVC
arrangement by more than the cumulative value of the lost employer contributions
and any difference in charges. A further example might be where the FSAVC offers
some kind of valuable guarantee of benefits in retirement.
6.25.2 If a firm finds an investor for whom circumstances such as those in paragraph
6.25.1 apply they may conclude that no loss has been suffered.
We trust that you will now accept that the inclusion of the value of a guaranteed
annuity where available within the plan is appropriate.
As no agreement could be reached on this matter, the complaint was referred to our service
for consideration. In her complaint form Ms C said that she would most likely not wish to take
an annuity at retirement, and she believes the method of loss calculation puts her at a
disadvantage by effectively forcing her to take an annuity at that time. She also said the
GAO only applies to a single life and the use of a GAO is therefore unfair as shes married.
And the use of a Guaranteed Annuity to reduce the calculated loss is inconsistent with the
FSA's guidance.
No additional submissions have been made in respect of Ms Cs complaint but on another
case that this service has considered with similar circumstances, the actuaries assisting
Ms Cs representative have said that its clear from the FSAVC review model guidance that
GAO's on FSAVCs should not be included in charges cases. The calculation tables on
pages 62, 63 & 65 of the guidance only include the following wording for the FSAVC side of
the calculation "the value of the charges incurred on the FSAVC fund up to the calculation
date allowing for accumulation at the benchmark index" i.e., only the charges in the FSAVC
should be modelled. It has also said that it would seem unfair to a consumer that, the
vagaries of which actuarial firm makes the calculation, determines a large difference in the
outcome.Ms Cs actuaries have also said on another case that if a GAO were to be allowed, the type
of annuity would accordingly need to match the benefits of the occupational pension with the
NHS. The GAO that Wesleyan use is a single life non escalating, whereas the alternative
NHS benefits for an annuity are CPI linked with a 50% spouses pension. They say not only
is the GAO use inappropriate but plays no part in a charges only loss calculation; if it were a
true comparison of value, a charges only calculation does not take account of value.
Wesleyan has confirmed that, while it has based its calculation on a single life level annuity,
it does offer other annuities and these are on an equivalent basis. It says that it based its
calculation on the single life level annuity as this is what most of its consumers take when
they opt to take an annuity through Wesleyan. But it has explained that if consumer wishes
to take an annuity on a different basis, for example an increasing annuity with a 50%
spouses benefit, then this is possible.
Wesleyan has also explained that even without the inclusion of the GAO in the fund value, it
still believes there is a possibly that its fund outperformed the in-house AVC as it performed
considerably well. So it considers that it should still be able to apply clause 6.25 to consider
whether a consumer has in fact not suffered a loss as a result of the advice to take a
FSAVC.
My provisional findings
I reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision in June 2022. My provisional
findings are set out below.
Wesleyan has upheld this complaint and it considers Ms C would have joined her in-
house AVC arrangement had the FSAVC plan not been mis-sold. Ms C initially 
complained that she would have bought added years but she no longer seems to be 
arguing this. And she hasnt disputed the basis on which Wesleyan has upheld her 
complaint. So, all thats left for me to decide is how Wesleyan needs to put matters 
right. However, for completeness, I should add that I agree, given what was noted in 
the sales paperwork about Ms Cs desire to retire at 55, the in-house AVC does 
seem to have been a more appropriate option for her than added
years.
Following concerns about mis-selling, the regulator at that time told businesses to 
carry out a review of some FSAVC plans sold between 29 April 1988 and 15 August 
1999. The main aim was to review the FSAVC plans of consumers who might have 
lost matching contributions or subsidies that the employer wouldve paid, had an in-
house AVC plan been started instead. The sale of Ms Cs plan didnt fall within the 
review because the OPS didnt match or subsidise payments to its in-house AVC 
arrangement.
However, when we uphold a consumer's complaint and its determined that they 
shouldve been advised to take in-house AVCs instead of FSAVCs, we do generally 
tell the business to pay compensation in accordance with the FSAVC review 
guidance, even if the FSAVC plan didnt fall within the scope of the review.
While acknowledging that the model guidance is useful, its simply that - guidance. It 
doesnt set out rules that all businesses must follow. And, in some circumstances, 
particularly when a complaint has been made, its not appropriate to apply the 
guidance if it will result in unfair redress for a consumer that has been mis-sold an 
FSAVC plan. What I need to consider is what is fair in the circumstances of the 
complaint before me.Use of the GAO in redress calculations
Having reviewed matters, I do think the guidance allows firms to consider whether no 
loss has been suffered by a consumer. And I also think that one of the situations 
where it can do this is when the FSAVC has a GAO. I say this because of clause 
6.25 of the guidance mentioned above. This allows firms to consider whether in fact 
no loss has been suffered and an example it provides is where the investment 
performance of the FSAVC has exceeded that of the in-house AVC arrangement by 
more than the cumulative value of the lost employer contributions and any difference 
in charges. A further example might be where the FSAVC offers some kind of 
valuable guarantee of benefits in retirement.
I think the GAO would qualify as a valuable guarantee of benefits in retirement.
However, I dont think it necessarily follows that it will always be fair for a firm to 
include its value just because an FSAVC plan has a GAO.
Its important to highlight that the pensions environment has changed significantly 
since the guidance was published in May 2000. The options a consumer had when 
taking their benefits at that time were fairly limited. And I think its likely that it would 
generally have been envisaged  at that time - that the majority of consumers would 
take an annuity when they took the benefits of their FSAVC plans. I dont think it 
would have necessarily been unreasonable to suggest that many consumers would 
have therefore utilised their GAOs at retirement where available. So in those 
circumstances, it might have been considered reasonable for a firm to consider 
whether the inclusion of the GAO meant that the consumer may not have suffered a 
loss.
However, there have been several changes over the years to the rules for consumers
accessing their pension via drawdown, along with major changes introduced in April 
2015, widely known as pension freedoms. These changes have given consumers 
more flexibility in the way they can access their pension benefits. And these 
freedoms apply not only to the FSAVC plans but would also have been accessible 
under the in-house AVC arrangement.
The result of this is that there has been a considerable decline in the number of 
consumers taking annuities as drawdown or lump sum options are more widely 
available.
I note that on another case we have considered here Wesleyan has said that where 
a valuable GAO exists, it would normally expect an investor to take it. I do accept 
those that opt to take an annuity may well utilise any guarantees available on their 
plans because current annuity rates on the open market have dropped considerably. 
But ultimately the changes to the pensions legislation mean that not all consumers 
with FSAVCs are taking an annuity  and in turn they arent utilising the GAOs - 
when they take their FSAVC benefits.
In the case of Ms C, she has transferred her plans away from Wesleyan and so 
hasnt benefited from the GAO. I appreciate the advice given to Ms C to transfer 
away may not have been provided by Wesleyan, but I dont think that matters. 
Wesleyan has upheld the complaint on the basis that the FSAVC was mis-sold and 
Ms C would instead have joined the in-house AVC arrangement. If Ms C had been in 
the in-house AVC then she could also have transferred her plan to another provider; 
she would not have been restricted to buying an annuity with the in-house fund. For these reasons, I dont think its appropriate for Wesleyan to take the value of the 
GAO into account when the complaint has been upheld on this basis.
Charges and performance
Had Ms C been a member of her in-house AVC, she would also have had the option 
to take her benefits flexibly  but, as at 28 August 2019, she would have paid 
£18,178.99 less in charges to the AVC.
However, just because Ms C would have paid less in charges, it doesnt necessarily 
mean that she has suffered a loss as a result of taking the FSAVC. And its this point 
that Wesleyan has raised because it considers its fund has performed particular well.
The guidance above does allow a firm to consider if no loss has been suffered and 
one of the instances where it can do so is where the investment performance of the 
FSAVC has exceeded that of the in-house AVC arrangement by more than the 
cumulative value of the lost employer contributions and any difference in charges.
Its clear from the above that a firm can consider whether no loss has been suffered if 
a fund has performed well. So, in my final decision I intend to direct Wesleyan to 
carry out a comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC and if can 
demonstrate that the FSAVCs performance has exceeded the in-house AVC by 
more than the higher charges Ms C has paid, then it may conclude that she has not 
suffered a loss as a result of taking the FSAVC. However, if a loss is identified, 
Wesleyan should pay Ms C the value of the excess charges she paid to the FSAVC 
plan, calculated in line with a standard charges only calculation.
Im aware that, despite several attempts, Wesleyan has been unable to obtain 
notional values from the in-house AVC scheme. This isnt surprising given the firm 
operating the scheme has changed over the years. So I have set out below, in the 
putting things right section, details of the benchmark Wesleyan should use to run 
the comparison.
Responses to my provisional findings
Ms Cs representative has said that it has nothing further to add.
Wesleyan remains of the view that the guaranteed benefits provided by the plan are 
valuable. But it is pleased that it is able to make an initial assessment of whether there has 
been a loss. But as the plan has been transferred away from Wesleyan, it says the 
comparison with the "benchmarked value of FSAVC contributions" (at the relevant date)
should be based on the actual value of the Wesleyan FSAVC plan as at the date of transfer. 
It says that this is a fair and reasonable comparison that ensures that any liability for 
underperformance against the benchmark following the investor's decision to transfer the 
plan elsewhere does not fall to Wesleyan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Wesleyan considers that the guaranteed benefits are valuable. But I remain of 
the view that it would be inappropriate to take the value of the GAO into account when 
completing this type of calculation. My reasons for this were set out in my provisional 
findings so I dont intend to repeat these here. However, I do acknowledge that Ms Cs plan has been transferred. I agree that, in these 
circumstances, its appropriate for Wesleyan to complete the comparison of the FSAVC and 
the notional value of the in-house AVC on the date the plan was transferred. I think this is a 
fair comparison. If a loss is identified at this stage, Wesleyan should revert to the standard 
charges only calculation as set out in my provisional decision.
Ms Cs representative has been notified of this change and hasnt provided any further 
comments. So I see no reasons to depart from this. Ive therefore set out below what 
Wesleyan needs to do to put matters rights. 
Putting things right
As at the date the FSAVC plan was transferred:
If Wesleyan wishes to consider whether no loss has been suffered, it should calculate a
notional value for the in-house AVC scheme as if it had performed in line with the FTSE UK
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half of the investment, and for the other
half, the average rate from fixed rate bonds index. I've chosen this benchmark because this
would have achieved capital growth with a small risk to the capital. The average rate for the
fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable
return without risk to her capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up
of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government
bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take a small degree of risk to
get a higher return.
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Ms K into that position. It does not mean
that Ms K would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly
reflects the sort of return Ms K could have obtained from investments suited to her objective
and risk attitude.
Wesleyan should then compare the actual value of the FSAVC with this notional value. If
the actual value exceeds the notional value no financial loss has been suffered and it need
not take any further action.
The Financial Ombudsman Service uses benchmarks like this as a proxy for the typical
growth that would have been achieved in investments that performed similarly to the
benchmark. The aim of any benchmark used in this way is for the investment provider to
achieve returns broadly in line with the benchmark, despite the charges that would
ordinarily be incurred. For that reason, Wesleyan should not deduct charges when taking
this particular step to calculate a notional value. This is consistent with the approach the
Financial Ombudsman Service takes with such benchmarks.
If Wesleyan doesn't carry out the above comparison, or the comparison produces a loss, it
must run a charges only calculation to establish the difference in charges between the
FSAVC and in-house AVC. This should be run in accordance with the regulators FSAVC
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If a loss is identified, Wesleyan should pay Ms C the value of the excess charges as a lump
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed
according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a
notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Wesleyan Assurance Society to 
carry out calculations as above. If Ms C accepts the final decision, Wesleyan should add 8% 
simple per year on any loss from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman