DRN-3251435
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that he was still required to pay for his private health insurance policy at a 
time when the services BUPA Insurance Limited was able to provide were impacted due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Hes also unhappy that BUPA increased the premium when his 
policy renewed in early 2021.
What happened
Mr G has had the benefit of medical insurance, underwritten by BUPA, for many years. The 
policy renewed each year.
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and
the pressure this was putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately
funded treatment were utilised by the NHS for treatment. And throughout the time when 
medical facilities were being utilised by the NHS  which affected BUPAs ability to provide a 
full range of services  Mr G continued to pay his insurance premium. 
In around April 2020, BUPA said it was committed to pass back any exceptional financial 
benefit it ultimately received because of Covid-19 to its UK health insurance customers  
either by way of a rebate or other appropriate means (BUPAs pledge). And in June 2021, 
BUPA confirmed that it would be providing a rebate equivalent to around one months 
premium to eligible UK health insurance customers to reflect any exceptional financial 
benefit ultimately arising because of Covid-19.
Mr G says BUPA should reimburse him for the premium he paid for the policy during the 
policy year 2020/2021 and for part of 2021/2022, after the policy renewed. 
Hes also unhappy that his premium increased when the policy was renewed in early 2021 
and that he couldve found a cheaper policy around that time. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G disagrees so his complaint has been 
passed to me consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Not refunding premiums
I can understand Mr Gs strength of feeling about this, but I dont think BUPA has acted 
unreasonably by not refunding the annual premium paid for the policy for 2020/2021. Ill 
explain why.
I accept that during 2020 private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to 
support the NHSs response to the pandemic. Understandably, this temporarily 
affected the ability for BUPA members to access the full range of services usually 
available  including Mr G. This was due to the unprecedented and unforeseen 
impact of Covid-19 pandemic and, Im satisfied, was outside of BUPAs of control.
BUPA accepts that routine and non-urgent treatments may have been deferred or 
delayed because of the pandemic. But BUPA has also said that it put in place other 
benefits to support its members at this time  including, where possible, arranging 
remote consultations and treatments with appropriate medical specialists. In the 
absence of anything to the contrary, Im prepared to accept what BUPA says based 
on my knowledge of the type of services BUPA was able to provide at the time. Im 
therefore persuaded that Mr Gs policy was capable of benefitting him during this 
time. 
Mr G says he had some medical issues which he wouldve wanted to see a specialist 
about around this time. However, Ive looked at BUPAs contact notes and they 
reflect that Mr G didnt contact it during the start of the pandemic when private 
medical facilities were most impacted by the pandemic. So, on the balance of 
probabilities, Im satisfied that he didnt contact BUPA to obtain pre-authorisation for 
any treatment. And if he had done so, Im not persuaded BUPA wouldnt have been 
able to assist  particularly if he needed treatment as a matter of urgency.
Mr G says if he hired a car from a car hire firm during the Covid-19 pandemic which 
he couldnt use he would expect to be refunded in full. However, an insurance policy 
operates differently to a hire contract. And for the reasons Ive already set out above, 
I think the policy was still capable of benefitting him even though certain treatments 
mightve been restricted or delayed at that time.
BUPAs pledge confirmed that if it saw a reduction in the claims it pays for customers 
overall, it was committed to pass back to eligible members any exceptional financial 
benefit it made as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. I think BUPAs intended course 
of action was reasonable  particularly as, at that time, the effects of the pandemic 
were ongoing and the impact uncertain.
Mr G also says that BUPA was paid by the government during the early part of the pandemic 
and also kept collecting premiums from its members even though private medical facilities 
were temporarily affected, meaning the service BUPA could provide was also impacted. The 
implication being that BUPA unjustly profited from the situation. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there had been an overall reduction in the claims 
made on BUPAs private medical insurance policies. However, Im satisfied that non-urgent 
treatments - deferred in the earlier stages of the pandemic - wouldve still needed to have 
been delivered and funded by BUPA at a later date, once private facilities were no longer 
needed by the NHS to treat patients. 
BUPA commissioned a third party to assure that the way in which it shares out the rebate is 
fair and reasonable across eligible UK health insurance customers and it was satisfied with 
its intended course of action to refund eligible members around one months premium 
payments to reflect any exceptional financial benefit it made as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. That third party is independent of BUPA. Its reflected on BUPAs website:
We have independently reviewed BUPAs proposed approach to allocating its rebate
fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers. We recognise that finding
the right balance between fairness, simplicity and BUPAs desire to act promptly indistributing the rebate fund is challenging, and that no single approach will fully
satisfy all stakeholders. We are satisfied that BUPAs proposed approach to
allocating its rebate fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers is 
reasonable and strikes an equitable balance between these objectives.
Im also conscious that BUPA has committed to carry out a final review in due course to 
ensure it has met BUPAs pledge. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
this complaint given that Covid-19 is still prevalent, and its full impact hasnt been fully 
determined.
Premium increase:
BUPA has been able to provide us with details about the way in which the quote Mr G
received to renew the policy in January 2021 was calculated.
Once the base rate of the scheme is calculated, the annual premium Mr G paid for the
policy is influenced by individual factors; namely his location and claims history. Its for
BUPA to determine which factors it considers when pricing its medical insurance policies. 
And I dont think the factors its mentioned are out of line with the industry norm, or inherently 
unfair or unreasonable.
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that the annual premium was partly influenced by
an increase in the base rate that year. And that the base rate increase wouldve been the
same for all members of the branded policy Mr G had the benefit of, with the same age as 
Mr G, whod opted for his level of policy. I can also see that a discount was then applied 
taking into account Mr Gs claims history in the year immediately before the policy was due 
to renew. 
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that the annual premium Mr G was quoted for the
insurance year 2021/2022 was fair and reasonable  and in line with the factors BUPA takes 
into account when pricing this type of policy.
Mr G says that he searched online and was able to find other private medical insurance 
policies which were considerably cheaper  and that included an online quote form BUPA. 
But each insurance policy will have its own terms and conditions and might not have offered 
like for like cover compared with the policy he had. 
And besides, the letter sent to Mr G in January 2021 setting out the renewal terms of his 
private medical insurance policy says:
You have been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance
cover you want at a better price if you shop around. If you do want to look at other
healthcare insurance options, please be mindful that you may not always get like-for 
like cover. For example, pre-existing conditions may be excluded, excesses may
be different and you might not be able to see the same doctors or use the same 
hospitals as you can with Bupa. 
So, all in all, I think BUPA did all it reasonably shouldve to make Mr G aware that there were 
options available to him if he was unhappy with the renewal price. And Mr G was free not to 
renew the policy if he had any concerns about the price  or was able to find equivalent 
cover elsewhere at a lower price. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman