DRN-2545619
The complaint
Mr F says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. He says he 
had financial problems that Mr Lender should have found out about and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one payday and two instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr F 
between February and October 2019.
loandate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(monthly)date ended
1 13/02/2019 £200 3 07/05/2019
2 07/05/2019 £500 6 07/10/2019
3 07/10/2019 £500 6 07/10/2020
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
He said that taking a loan on his payday shouldve caused Mr Lender to look closely at his 
finances. It should have done more to uncover his financial problems. The loans themselves 
caused him financial and personal difficulties. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint and I have explained why below.
For loan 1 the most Mr F would repay was around £100, the other repayments were lower 
than this. The highest repayments for loans 2 and 3 were around £200.  
Ive seen a record of the information Mr F provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr F said he had a monthly income of around £2,000 and he had regular monthly outgoings 
of around £1,500. So, it was reasonable for Mr Lender to think that these loans were 
affordable for him.  
The crux of Mr Fs objection to the lending is that he feels Mr Lender should have made 
more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen that he was in financial difficulty and 
that he had some other related problems. But given the amounts borrowed against his 
income, and that that it was early in the lending relationship, I dont think its reasonable to 
say Mr Lender should have looked into his finances in more detail.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Mr Lender was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr F mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Mr Lender did for these loans 
was proportionate. I think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 3 was reasonable and Im not 
upholding Mr Fs complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman