DRN-4468662
The complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Widows Limited didnt tell him that his Civil Service Additional 
Voluntary Contributions (CSAVC) plan had been transferred to another provider. And that 
when he contacted it to look into taking benefits it gave incorrect information about the plan. 
Mr W doesnt feel that the £300 offered as compensation for its errors is sufficient.
What happened
Mr W took out a CSAVC with Scottish Widows some twenty years ago. In 2018 Scottish 
Widows received a request from another provider for information and forms to start a bulk 
transfer of Mr Ws and the other members CSAVCs held by it. 
Scottish Widows then started transferring over the batches of the CSAVCs to the other 
provider until the process was complete.
More recently Mr W contacted Scottish Widows as he was thinking of accessing his pension. 
He was told over the phone that it had not held his plan since 2019. Mr W says he was then 
told the plan had been transferred to the Channel Islands and they would look into it and get 
back to him. 
Mr W then received information saying the CSAVC had already been claimed as a death 
benefit. It wasnt until approximately six weeks later that he received the correct information 
that the plan had been transferred to Legal and General.
Scottish Widows offered Mr W £300 as compensation for the trouble and upset its errors had 
caused. This was in recognition of the incorrect information given and the time Mr W had 
spent waiting on the telephone for answers to his calls.
Mr W remained unhappy, he told this service that he shouldve been told in 2019 by Scottish 
Widows that the transfer had occurred. He believed the compensation due should amount to 
£1,000. And he commented that he could see why Scottish Widows were making bumper 
profits if this is deemed sufficient recompense for its mistake.
Our investigator looked into matters but felt the £300 offered was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
She didnt feel Scottish Widows had made any mistake in relation to the transfer itself. But 
that the mis-information given once Mr W contacted it to take his benefits caused him trouble 
and upset. However, she felt the £300 was in line with our guidance on making awards of 
this type. She was aware Mr W felt it should be more but explained that it wasnt our role to 
punish businesses. She also said the information about the transfer was available elsewhere 
such as the Civil Service website and Mr W couldve contacted it to find out where the plan 
was as well  if this was causing Mr W severe concern about his pension. This was said in 
relation to Mr Ws assertion that the impact of Scottish Widows mistake was more severe 
than our investigator had recognised.
Mr W said he believes the compensation award should be increased because:
He was misinformed on many occasions as to the fate of the AVC. 
He was not informed of the transfer to Legal and General.
He was erroneously told that the AVC had been moved offshore to the Channel Islands.
He had to spend many, many hours and days trying to sort this out.
He was then informed that he had claimed the funds as death benefit.
He was mistaken for another person
He was told it would be better if he searched for the location of his funds independently.
He also felt Scottish Widows was apathetic in its attempts to look into matters for him. He 
reiterated that the investigator had underestimated the impact this issue had on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Scottish Widows made an error here. And what happened isnt in 
dispute either, so its not necessary to discuss the finer points of what occurred. What is in 
dispute is the amount of trouble and upset caused by Scottish Widows in relation to Mr W. 
And whether a sum of £300 adequately compensates Mr W for this in line with our general 
guidelines for awards of this type.
Before I go into more detail about what I consider a fair award. One of the key issues for Mr 
W is he feels Scottish Widows ought to have notified him in 2019 when his plan was 
transferred to Legal and General. However, his transfer was part of a bulk transfer instigated 
by the Civil Service Pension Scheme and the funds were requested and sent to Legal and 
General as Scottish Widows was required to do. As this was instigated by the Civil Service 
Pension Scheme I wouldve expected it to have let its members know of the change of 
provider for its pension scheme. I dont know whether it did contact Mr W but it seems he 
wasnt made aware. However, I dont think it was Scottish Widows responsibility to let all the 
individual members moved as part of a bulk transfer of business instigated by the employer 
that a transfer was occurring. However, of course Id expect it to be able to tell anyone 
involved in the transfer where their policy had gone. And I think this is Scottish Widows error 
here and not the handling of the initial transfer.
Ive considered Mr Ws points as to why the award should be increased to a more significant 
sum but having done so, I dont think the £300 awarded by Scottish Widows is unreasonable 
in the circumstances. I can completely understand that Mr W must have been frustrated 
about the lack of clarity and misinformation hed received such as telling him the policy had 
been paid to him as death benefits. But I think Mr W wouldve known this information wasnt 
correct, as hes stated, he was very much alive. I appreciate the information he was 
receiving must have seemed almost farcical at that point. And he quite understandably 
raised a complaint with Scottish Widows in early June. It wasnt until 19 July that Scottish 
Widows wrote to Mr W to give him the correct information that the policy had in fact gone to 
Legal and General. 
Scottish Widows shouldve been able to give this information much more quickly and without 
the misinformation in-between, but I do think the £300 adequately compensates Mr W for its 
mistakes. 
I recognise Mr W had to wait for some time on calls, was given wrong information a number 
of times and is quite understandably unhappy with how Scottish Widows dealt with his 
request. But I dont think this means a more significant award is required here. As the 
investigator explained there were other avenues open to Mr W to find out where his pension 
was held if he was concerned that it had been lost.I can understand why Mr W felt this was putting the blame on him, but this is not the case. I 
note that if you enter the Civil Service Pension Scheme into google the first result is the Civil 
Service Pension website and the homepage says at the top that it is invested with Legal and 
General. And down the page it states that previously it had been with other pension 
providers but from September 2018 all had been redirected to Legal and General. I must add 
that Mr W was entitled to expect Scottish Widows to be able to tell him this information and 
Im not saying he ought to have done this himself. But I do think in the scenario where 
someone was significantly distressed thinking their pension had been lost, they wouldve 
likely explored other avenues before waiting for an answer to their complaint. 
There is a level of subjectivity with these awards and only Mr W can know how he truly felt 
through this experience. But we do have to take into account other aspects alongside a 
customers testimony. And Ive thought about the impact of the mis-information, whether a 
person in Mr Ws situation wouldve considered their pension lost permanently and the time 
that passed before Mr W was given credible information. And having done so I dont think 
the £300 award is unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. 
That this award is less than Mr W thinks it should be, is not a suggestion I dont agree with 
his points about the poor service he received from Scottish Widows. I think it shouldve done 
much better, this was not a difficult query to deal with and in its response Scottish Widows 
has recognised that the misinformation was hard to explain. But we are not a regulator and 
our awards are not penalties for making mistakes. So, where I disagree with Mr W is only on 
the level of compensation that is required to put things right. I would only look to change the 
award if I felt it was unreasonable in the circumstances and didnt adequately reflect the 
trouble and upset caused. And I dont think this is the case here. 
I also understand Mr W considers the amount awarded as insignificant but for instances 
where there has been a really significant lasting impact on a customer, we will make more 
substantial awards. But whilst I recognise this issue will have been distressing and 
frustrating for Mr W, I dont think a higher award is required here for the reasons Ive 
explained.
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, Scottish Widows should pay Mr W £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience its errors caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I find that the award already offered by Scottish Widows Limited 
is sufficient in the circumstances. If Mr W has not already received payment, it should 
arrange for the payment to be made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman