DRN-4229577
The complaint
Ms P complains the amount of compensation offered by Aviva Insurance Limited doesnt 
reasonably reflect the difficulties she experienced whilst making a claim under her home 
emergency policy. 
Any reference to Aviva includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, and as theyre well known to both 
parties, Ive summarised whats happened. 
Ms P has a home emergency policy which provides plumbing and drain cover. 
On 8 December 2022, she contacted Aviva to report a leaking tap on her propertys 
standpipe which was flooding a nearby road. Ms P explained the only way she could 
control the leak was to turn the water supply off at the mains  but doing so left her 
property without access to water.
The claim was logged, and Ms P was told she could expect a call back in the next 
four hours. However, Ms P didnt receive a call back and over the course of three 
days, she had to contact Aviva numerous times to see when an engineer would be 
attending her property. 
Ms P has explained shes vulnerable due to her age and so Avivas suggestion - of 
her leaving her home to turn the water mains on and off - wasnt a viable interim 
solution. Ms P said doing so would put her at risk of an injury. 
On day three, an engineer attended Ms Ps property and was able to fix the problem. 
Ms P complained to Aviva. Aviva apologised for the service itd provided  
acknowledging it hadnt called Ms P back and that it had given her conflicting 
information. It offered £300 compensation to recognise this. 
Unhappy with its response, Ms P brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and said the compensation offered was fair.
Because Ms P disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached and I wont be 
asking Aviva to increase its offer of compensation - Ill explain why. 
Aviva has acknowledged its service fell short and has apologised for this - along with 
making an offer of compensation. And so, the issue to be decided here is not 
whether Avivas customer service fell short, but rather whether the compensation it 
has awarded fairly recognises the difficulties Ms P says shes experienced. 
Ive no doubt dealing with the water leak was a stressful event for Ms P and 
understandably, Avivas poor handling of her claim during this time compounded 
what was already a difficult situation. 
From reading her testimony I know Ms P feels strongly that she had no alternative 
but to turn the water off at the mains  which in turn, left her without access to water. 
And based on what Ive seen, Ive no reason to doubt this. Likewise, I take what Ms P 
has said about how her age combined with the weather conditions at the time, put 
her at risk of injury if she were to keep returning to the water mains to turn the supply 
on and off. 
But in determining whether the compensation is fair, I must keep in mind that the 
inconvenience Ms P experienced was for a three-day period and was therefore, 
limited to a relatively short period of time. 
Furthermore, with a claim such as this, its reasonable to expect the policyholder to 
experience a level of inconvenience. So, whilst Aviva is responsible for the avoidable 
delays and miscommunication, it wouldnt be fair to attribute all the difficulties Ms P 
experienced because of the leak to Avivas handling of her claim 
Whilst Ms P concerns about her welfare and that of other road users and pedestrians 
arent unreasonable, ultimately, these didnt materialise, and so, I wouldnt award 
compensation for hypothetical situations. 
So, on balance, Im satisfied the £300 compensation offered by Aviva reasonably 
reflects the difficulties Ms P experienced. And as it is in line with awards this Service 
makes for distress and inconvenience, I wont be asking Aviva to increase it. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited 
should pay £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman