DRN-1915355
The complaint
Via a claims management company (CMC), Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
mis-sold him a Platinum Vantage packaged bank account (PBA) in March 2011.
He initially said that the upgrade had happened without his consent, and so as he didnt 
know that he had a PBA, he didnt know about the benefits and so couldnt use them. He 
also said that his level of English was such that he couldnt properly understand what Lloyds 
was telling him. More recently, he has argued that the travel insurance that came with the 
PBA was unnecessary for him.
What happened
Mr N opened a fee free account with Lloyds in 2006, which was upgraded to a Platinum 
Vantage PBA in March 2011. The account came with a range of benefits in return for a 
monthly fee. At the time of the sale the main benefits were worldwide family travel insurance; 
mobile phone insurance; and breakdown cover. It also came with banking benefits, such as 
a £250 interest free overdraft and a lower rate of interest on overdrafts above that amount.
Both parties agree that the upgrade happened in branch, but Mr Ns CMC says he didnt 
realise what he was signing up for, and was just given papers to sign. So he didnt give his 
explicit consent to the PBA. Later in the investigation, his CMC refocused its argument on to 
the fact that the travel insurance was, essentially, unnecessary for him as he only travelled in 
Europe and was a single man.
Having looked at all the evidence, one of our adjudicators thought that Lloyds hadnt mis-
sold this PBA to Mr N. His CMC disagrees and has asked an ombudsman to review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive followed our usual approach to considering PBA complaints, which everyone 
can read on our website.
Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint, and Ill explain why.
Was the account upgraded without Mr Ns consent?
I can see from Lloyds system contact notes that it had discussed an upgrade from his fee 
free account to a PBA a few times prior to March 2011, namely in May 2008 and September 
2010. It seems in September 2010 Mr N indicated that he would probably upgrade to a 
silver PBA at some unspecified point. I can also see multiple conversations about his credit 
card account and its limit, ahead of him travelling abroad. The notes then state that Mr N 
upgraded his account to a Platinum PBA as a result of the overdraft benefit, travel insurance 
and mobile phone insurance. It talks about him making frequent trips to two named 
European countries.
Overall, I have seen no evidence to support the assertion that this upgrade happened 
without Mr Ns consent. He appears to have had various conversations about upgrading over 
nearly three years, and the specificity of the notes of the sale (e.g. exactly which countries 
he frequently travelled to) strongly suggest that a conversation did take place and he did 
agree to the PBA.
The account contact notes also do not support the idea that Mr Ns English wasnt good 
enough to understand what was going on. They show regular conversations with bank staff 
where he explains why he does, or doesnt, want a particular financial product. So I cant 
conclude that he didnt know what he was agreeing to.
Was the Platinum account an OK fit for Mr Ns circumstances?
Mr Ns CMC says that he did not need the higher level of cover that came with the Platinum 
PBA travel insurance, because he never travelled outside of Europe and was a single man 
with no family who would travel with him.
The first point is not in dispute, but Lloyds says that when it discussed this complaint with Mr 
N, he confirmed that his wife and daughter travelled with him. In addition, our adjudicator 
highlighted that he had received child tax credit in the same month as the upgrade 
happened. So, she thought that supported the conclusion that he did have a family.
Mr Ns CMC eventually conceded that Mr N did have an ex-partner and children, but that 
they were entirely estranged and lived abroad. So he would never have travelled with them, 
but was in receipt of child tax credit in the UK as a result of having fathered that child/those 
children.
I havent heard the conversation that Lloyds says it had with Mr N in which he talked about 
travelling with his wife and daughter, because I dont need to in order to reach a finding on 
this point. I have confirmed the criteria for successfully claiming child tax credit, and the 
recipient is required to live with that child/those children at least some of the time and to be 
fully responsible for their care and wellbeing. 
So I can only conclude that Mr Ns CMC has made a mistake in its evidence to us, otherwise 
it is inadvertently accusing its client of benefit fraud, which I am sure is not the case. On the 
balance of probabilities, I find that Mr N most likely did have a family at the time of the sale 
and may well have wanted them to also be covered under his travel insurance. The evidence 
also suggests that he could have made use of the breakdown and mobile phone insurance, 
although he hasnt needed to.
I can see that Lloyds sent a welcome pack to Mr N. But I accept its possible that Lloyds 
could have provided further or better information about the PBA at the point of sale. But 
even if it had, I dont think Mr N would have acted differently given that I think the benefits 
were suitable for his circumstances. So theres no evidence that better or different 
information would have made a difference to Mr Ns decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint and Lloyds doesnt need 
to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman