DRN-2880334
The complaint
Mr B, through his representative, complains that Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, 
failed to verify his income and expenditure before lending and failed to carry out 
proportionate checks before approving the loan applications.  
What happened
Using information provided by Cashfloat, here is a brief table of the approved loans. Each 
loan was for a three month term.  
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedmonthly 
repayment
1 06/02/2019 26/04/2019 £400 £185.85
2 22/06/2019 13/09/2019 £400 £205.01
3 13/09/2019 27/11/2019 £450 £242.25
Cashfloat has explained its procedures before approving a loan and has sent to us copies of 
the details Mr B gave when he applied, together with the credit search results carried out by 
it before each loan. 
One of our adjudicators thought that Cashfloat had enough information to show it that Mr B 
was not managing his money well. Its credit searches showed Cashfloat that he had three 
open short term loans at the time he applied for loan 1 and so it ought to have realised that 
Mr B was unlikely, sustainably to repay it. So, he thought that Cashfloat should not have lent 
to Mr B at all. 
Cashfloat disagreed. It did explain that its own calculations led it to be aware that Mr B had 
monthly credit commitments of £1,463. This plus the declared income of £2,200, and his 
own declared expenditure of £400, did, according to Cashfloat, leave Mr B with £152 a 
month after repaying the first loan instalment repayment. So, in its view its checks were 
proportionate considering the relatively low loan sums being applied for and the short term 
length of three months for each loan. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B had informed Cashfloat that he was living at home with his parents and Cashfloat has 
referred to this again recently. Mr Bs declared monthly expenditure for loan 1 was food £50; 
utility bills £100, and monthly rent/mortgage £200 all of which are rather low figures. 
Cashfloat appears to be saying that the fact Mr B had told them he lived at home may have 
explained his relative low expenditure figures.  
Mr B also gave some details of his full-time employment, who he worked for, the type of job 
it was and that he had no partner who brought in any income or dependants. He also gave 
figures for travel, credit and other loan commitments. Cashfloats own credit search did show that he had a lot of other accounts and debt and 
there had been delinquent and defaulted accounts. That first credit search set of results 
revealed that Mr B had had 123 accounts of which 16 were active and 106 had been settled. 
He had opened six new accounts in the previous six months, he had three delinquent 
accounts and there were several historic defaults recorded.
I appreciate what Cashfloat is submitting to us that even with all the credit commitments he 
had, still Mr B had room to be able to pay the Cashfloat loan and £400 was a relatively 
modest loan application. It did explain that its own calculations led it to be aware that Mr B 
had monthly credit commitments of £1,463. This plus the declared income of £2,200, and his 
own declared expenditure of £400, did, according to Cashfloat, leave Mr B with £152 a 
month after repaying the first loan instalment repayment. 
But I think that misses the obvious fact that Mr B was on a type of credit merry-go-round and 
was constantly taking and paying off loans of different varieties. And if Mr Bs income had 
not been what he said it was (so it had been less than the £2,200 he told Cashfloat), or his 
outgoings for food, travel, and the money he paid to his parents had been more than he said 
it was, then Mr B actually had relatively little margin. Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. And in my view Mr B appeared to be 
over-indebted when he approached Cashfloat for loan 1 and Cashfloat knew about that. 
I think that Cashfloat had enough information from its own research to know that Mr B was 
not in a position to manage his money well, amply demonstrated by the credit search results 
it had for him. So, I agree with our adjudicator that loan 1 ought never to have been 
approved and it follows that loans 2 and 3 ought not have been approved for Mr B either. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr B at all, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending, Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to [consumer] in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.Cashfloat ought to do as follows: 
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on each of the three loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1 to 3 from Mr Bs credit file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr B;s complaint and I direct that Western Circle Ltd  
trading as Cashfloat should so as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman