DRN-3499837
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society registered a default on his credit file and 
passed his debt to a debt collection agency after he fell behind on his credit card payments.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr K phoned Nationwide and said he was unable to afford his credit card 
payments because of a reduction in his income. Nationwide told him his account was 
£137.44 in arrears. It agreed to allow Mr K a payment holiday if he paid £62.99. 
Nationwide has noted that Mr K attempted to pay £62.99 by card but this was declined. 
Nationwide says Mr K said he would call back the next day to make the payment but didnt 
do so. It says Mr K didnt contact it or make any further payments until late April 2021.
Nationwide registered a default on the account in late February 2021 and passed it to debt 
collectors in March 2021.
Mr K complained to Nationwide, who said it had defaulted his account correctly and in line 
with its terms.
Mr K remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Nationwide had acted fairly. 
Mr K agreed with most of our investigators findings. But he didnt think Nationwide had 
effectively communicated that it might terminate his contract and pass on his debt. He said if 
it had done, he would have known this would have resulted in a default. So, his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry guidance recommends that a default is registered on a credit file when 
an account is around three to six months in arrears.
The credit card terms and conditions say: 
You must pay us a minimum monthly payment equal to 3% of the account balance or £5 
(whichever is the higher) within 25 days of the date of your monthly statement. You can pay 
us more than the minimum if you want to but if the balance is less than £5 you must pay 
what you owe us in full.
According to Nationwides records Mr K didnt make any payments toward the account from 
October 2020 to April 2021. When he phoned Nationwide in January 2021, Mr K was two 
months in arrears and needed to pay £137.44 to bring the account up to date.
Nationwide says it would normally require arrears on the account to be paid before agreeing 
a payment holiday. However, it said it was willing to grant Mr K a payment holiday if he paid 
£62.99. I think this shows that Nationwide was willing to help Mr K once it was aware of his 
financial difficulties.
Mr K says Nationwide didnt make him aware that his payment of £62.99 didnt go through. 
But Nationwides notes suggest he was told this and agreed to call back the next day. The 
credit card statement issued on 8 February 2021 refers to arrears of £213.35 and a total 
payment of £290.75 due by 5 March 2021. So, I think it was clear from the statement that 
arrears on the account remained and the payment holiday hadnt been put in place.
Mr K says Nationwide didnt make him aware of the consequences of not making payments 
on the account. He says he wasnt made aware that Nationwide might terminate his contract 
and pass on his debt.
However, Nationwide has provided a copy of the default notice it issued on 27 January 2021 
which required Mr K to pay the outstanding arrears balance of £137.44 by 17 February 2021. 
The covering letter says:
If we dont receive payment or reach an agreement, then well take further action. This could 
include:
Terminating the agreement.
Requiring you to cut in half your credit card and return it to us by post.
We may refer your account to a Debt Collection Agency to collect the debt on our 
behalf.
We reserve the right to record default information about your account with one or more 
licensed Credit Reference Agencies. This means it may prove difficult for you to obtain credit 
in the future.
Mr K says he didnt receive the default notice. Its possible he didnt, but the notice is 
correctly addressed. So, I dont think it would be fair to hold Nationwide responsible for Mr K 
not receiving it.
Mr Ks credit card statements for January and February 2021 contain the wording:
You have failed to make a minimum payment
Failing to make your minimum payment can mean that you have broken the terms of this 
credit agreement and could result in us taking legal action against you. It could lead to you 
having to pay additional costs and make it more difficult for you to obtain credit in future.
The February 2021 statement goes on to say:
Your payment record is reported to Credit Reference Agencies and credit within Nationwide 
may be withdrawn.The statements also include a telephone number to contact Nationwide on as soon as 
possible if the minimum payment cant be made.
So, Im satisfied that Nationwide gave Mr K clear information about the potential 
consequences if he didnt keep up with his minimum payments or reach a payment 
agreement with Nationwide. And I think it was fair for Nationwide to have registered the 
default on his credit file and moved his debt to the debt collection agency when it did.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr K. But having considered everything, I think 
Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman