DRN-2866815
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured second charge loan Miss B took out with Prestige Finance 
Limited. Shes unhappy that the loan term extends beyond her planned retirement date and 
believes the loan was unaffordable at the outset.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision last month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I 
intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words (rounding figures where applicable) 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Miss B began the process of applying for the loan in late 2011. The application was made to 
Prestige via a third-party broker acting as intermediary. The application was successful, the 
loan was approved and granted in early 2012. Miss B borrowed £11,000 (plus fees) over 20 
years, the purpose of which was to repay various existing consumer credit debts; a process 
known as consolidation.
Since the loan started, Miss B has experienced some financial difficulties and got into 
arrears; Miss B has since repaid those arrears but is unhappy that Prestige didnt tell her 
those arrears would attract further interest. A separate complaint was raised about that, and 
Prestige responded in May 2020. I understand our investigator told Miss B at the time that 
she could bring that complaint to us separately if she wished to, although I note that more 
than six months have now passed since Prestiges final response on that point was sent.
The focus of this complaint, and I get the impression that its Miss Bs main priority, is the 
affordability of the loan when it was granted, and the term extending into her retirement. 
Our investigator looked at the information Prestige received from the broker and concluded 
that it should have made further checks of its own into Miss Bs financial situation as it was 
at the time. Had it done this, the investigator concluded that Prestige should have realised 
the proposed loan was unaffordable and should not have been granted. He recommended 
the complaint be upheld, and that Prestige take the following steps to put things right. 
I understand that Miss B has repaid the capital balance of her loan, so I would expect 
that
 Prestige Finance refund all interest and charges that Miss B has paid on this loan 
directly to her;
Alternatively, if there is an outstanding capital balance, you should first look to use the 
redress to reduce the capital balance; 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Miss Bs credit file;
Given the distress that this has caused Miss B, being put in a position where she has 
had an extended period struggling to maintain payments against an unaffordable loan, I 
think that you should also look to pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience.
Miss B accepted the investigators recommendation, but Prestige asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. The case has come to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to an entirely different conclusion from the investigator; I set out 
my provisional findings below so that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
When a lender receives a mortgage application via an intermediary, its not required to 
duplicate the intermediarys role. Miss Bs brokers arranged the loan on her behalf and was 
responsible for advising her on its suitability for her needs and circumstances. Prestiges role 
was to decide if and on what terms it was willing to lend. As part of that decision, Prestige 
had a duty to lend responsibly by making sure the monthly payments were affordable. 
Prestige could make its own checks, but wasnt necessarily required to; at least not in 2012. 
The rules are much stricter now, but the guidance Prestige was required to follow at the time 
allowed it to rely on information about Miss Bs income and expenditure that the broker had 
provided. It would only be required to do its own checks if it had (or should have had) reason 
to suspect it wasnt safe to rely on the income and expenditure information from the broker.
On first glance, the proposed loan appeared affordable. The loan repayment would be 
around £180 a month, and the income and expenditure analysis provided by the broker 
suggested this should be manageable for Miss B. However, on this occasion, there was 
more to consider. 
Thats because the monthly repayment on the proposed loan was higher (by about £12) than 
what Miss B was currently paying to her separate creditors. Prestige knew this, because it 
was included in the information the broker had provided it with. But the broker also provided 
extracts from Miss Bs credit file which showed that she was already struggling with the 
separate creditors. 
Our investigator reasoned that this should have alerted Prestige took make further checks 
into why Miss B appeared to be struggling with commitments that should, on face value, 
have been affordable; arguably more affordable that the loan it was being asked to provide. 
The investigator conducted those checks himself, retrospectively, and the results of those 
check are what led him to conclude the loan should not have been granted.Ive thought very hard about this point, as it seems to me its the very crux of the complaint; 
the point on which the outcome turns. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that 
Prestige should have had misgivings about the apparent contradictions in what it had been 
told about Miss Bs financial situation. 
On balance, I think it probably should have looked further into the background of Miss Bs 
existing credit commitments. But I dont agree with the investigator that failing to do so 
resulted in Prestige lending irresponsibly, or that it should provide the redress that has been 
recommended. Ill explain why.
Theres no doubt that Miss Bs finances were in a bad way at the time; three of her credit 
commitments had been defaulted by the creditors. She was paying an aggregate of around 
£168 a month prior to the loan, but some of the individual amounts that made up that 
aggregate were token payments. They werent the full contractual amounts; added together, 
those were around the £300-mark. In other words Miss B hadnt got into difficulties because 
she couldnt afford to pay £168 a month. It was the other way around; she was paying £168 
because she had got into difficulties meeting much higher contractual obligations. 
Viewed in that light, the notion that £180 would be affordable based on the income 
expenditure analysis wasnt a contradiction, or an unsafe assessment for Prestige to have 
reached. It may have failed to conduct checks that it should have made, but whilst Miss B 
got into difficulties with the loan subsequently, on balance Im not convinced the failure to 
conduct extra checks resulted in it lending irresponsibly. 
If Prestige had conducted those extra checks, it would in all likelihood have reached the 
same conclusions that I have done. The loan should reasonably have been affordable, and 
by granting it, Prestige was giving Miss B an opportunity to clear all her existing debts for a 
monthly commitment that, whilst slightly more than she was paying to them at the time of 
applying, was substantially less than the contractual commitments that had got her into 
difficulty in the first place. 
Also, Prestiges loan, for the most part, didnt create new debt that didnt already exist. 
Miss B already had the vast majority of the debt; she applied for the loan with Prestige (so 
clearly wanted it) and must accept a measure of responsibility for having taken it.
That brings me to the loan term. Thats not something Miss B has just found out about. It 
was known about at the time, and Prestige drew it to her attention. In reply, Miss B said she 
had no fixed plans and could continue working. I think theres an important distinction to be 
made here between retirement date and state pension age. The distinction is that only the 
latter is a fixed point in time. 
Theres no such thing as a fixed retirement date. All other things being equal and barring 
unforeseen events (for example, a deterioration in health) a person can choose whether to 
retire when they reach state pension age or continue working after the begin receiving a 
pension. Miss B told Prestige in 2012 that she could do that in order to meet her loan 
repayments, and by the standards in place at the time, Prestige was entitled to accept what 
she said on face value. 
In summary, Ive considered Miss Bs circumstances as they stood at the time, and 
assessed Prestiges actions in the context of what was expected of it at the time. Having 
done so, Im not persuaded that by lending £11,000 (plus fees) over a 20-year term to repay 
the debts she already had and was struggling with, Prestige caused Miss B detriment. As a 
result, Im not persuaded an award of redress is warranted.
I gave the parties until 10 June 2021 to respond to my provisional decision; weve heard 
from both. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given a great deal of thought to Miss Bs emails of 7 and 9 June 2021. But having done 
so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions. I will however respond to 
the points Ms B made in those emails.
The first observation Ill make is that whether or not a mainstream bank would have made 
the same lending decision isnt an issue here; all lenders have their own lending criteria and 
appetite for risk. That general principle applies to secured and unsecured lending.
I note what Miss B has said about the day-to-day living expenses that shes listed; but of 
course these were already factored in at the time Prestige was assessing whether to lend to 
her or not. I take her point about the effects of inflation, and the impact that future cost of 
living rises would have on her finances if her income didnt rise in line. But thats an issue for 
everyone who ever applies to borrow money. 
Lenders cant predict the future; all they can do is assess what is in front of them and make 
an assessment based on what is known at the time. Also, I didnt find that Prestige failed to 
assess affordability in Miss Bs case. It clearly did assess affordability; its just that I thought 
it should have conducted further enquiries, so that it had more to go on when doing so. 
But I remain of the view that not making those extra enquiries didnt result in Prestige making 
an irresponsible lending decision. For the reasons I set out in the provisional decision, the 
consolidation loan should have been affordable for Miss B, and certainly should have made 
her financial situation easier to manage than it was before the loan was granted. I cant find 
against Prestige if subsequent events mean that hasnt happened.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman