DRN-1728872
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Miss N says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2003 Miss N took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit card during a meeting 
in-branch.
The policy provided protection for Miss N's credit card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out a 
monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding card balance for up to 12 months per claim. Its 
basic cost was 79 pence for every £100 Miss N owed on the card.
I issued my provisional decision of March 2020. I said here that I was likely not to uphold 
Miss N's complaint. Both parties have seen my provisional decision and given their 
responses to it.
Barclays said it had nothing further to add on the matter of the mis-sale complaint. But it 
repeated that is had already paid Miss N compensation in relation to the high commission 
and profit share aspect of the complaint.
Miss N disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, she said:
it seems that the decision has been made in Barclays' favour with no evidence.
she did not agree to take up PPI as she was in a good financial situation with savings 
- she was also living at home. She said she had no reason to take out PPI.
she's provided a certificate to show she was studying at the time, so PPI would not 
have benefited her.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant 
here in deciding Miss Ns case.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Miss N was hoping for, I've decided not to 
uphold her complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Miss N have a choice about PPI?  Barclays has provided a copy of Miss N's credit card application. And looking at this I can 
see she ticked a box to take it out. If Miss N didn't want PPI she could've left the box blank. 
Because of this and the way the application was set out, I think Barclays made it clear that 
Miss N didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant remember this.
the advice
Barclays says that because this was a branch sale, it recommended the PPI to Miss N. This 
means Barclays had to check that the PPI was right for Miss N. And based on what I think 
Miss N's circumstances were at the time of the sale, I think that PPI was suitable. 
Miss N has said different things about her employment status at different times - she's said 
she was working, and she's also said she was a student. And this isn't perhaps surprising 
given how long ago the sale took place - she's trying to remember what is in my view a 
relatively insignificant event from 17 years ago. I can see that Miss N has put some of her 
confusion down to what she was asked by Barclays and when she was asked - she says it 
wasn't always convenient to speak to Barclays when they phoned because she has a busy 
family life.
But this does mean that I don't think I can place much weight on what Miss N says now 
about her circumstances at the time. I think the evidence available from the time - in this 
case the credit card application - is a more accurate and reliable reflection of Miss N's 
circumstances at the time. And looking at this I can see Miss N ticked the box to indicate she 
was employed - there was also a box to tick if she was a student. I also think Miss N was 
employed for more than 16 hours a week thereby meeting the policy's eligibility / claim 
criteria. I say this because her recorded income of just under £20,000 a year is not in my 
view consistent with a part-time position (less than 16 hours a week) of the occupation type 
Miss N indicated - it seems to me to reflect a full-time role. 
In support of Miss N's employment status and income, Barclays has provided copy 
statements of her bank account from and around the time of the sale. And here I can see her 
account received a monthly payment, which correlates with the annual income Miss N 
recorded on her credit card application. The narrative against these payments also matches 
the employer Miss N recorded on the credit card application.
So, whilst I don't dispute that Miss N was studying at the time of the sale - she's provided 
evidence to support this. I think her studies were more likely than not carried out on a part-
time basis while she was also working full-time - or very close to it.
As such I make the following findings:
I think Miss N was eligible for the PPI
she wasn't affected by the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover for unusual 
employment circumstances 
she's not said that she had a medical condition at the time, which might have 
impacted her ability to make a successful sickness claim 
she seems to have had a need for the cover.
 
Miss N says she had some savings and she was living at home, so she could've managed 
her payments if anything happened. But the policy would've paid out regardless and it 
could've helped Miss N to maintain those savings  - or delay the time when she needed to 
call on them, so they lasted longer.
And I'm not persuaded that any sick pay she was entitled to from work would've lasted 
longer than the 12 months the policy would've paid out for per claim.So for these reasons I don't think it was wrong for Barclays to have recommended PPI - I 
think it was suitable for her because, had any of the insured risks become a reality, it 
could've helped her out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence about a meeting which happened many years ago, I 
accept its possible the information Barclays gave Miss N about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been - the credit card application itself didn't say much about it. But as I found 
above, I think Miss N chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And 
as I said above, based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Miss N off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While Barclays might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Miss N PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think it was nevertheless 
suitable for her, and I think she'd have still gone ahead and taken out PPI had Barclays done 
anything more.
This means Barclays doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss N.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss N because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss N about that. Because Barclays didn't tell her, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
In response to my provisional decision I can see Miss N says that my decision was made 
without any evidence. But I disagree. I've set out in detail the evidence I have considered 
and weighed up to reach my decision - this includes what Miss N has said about things and 
what her circumstances were at the time, her credit card application and her bank 
statements from the time.
I've not disputed the fact that Miss N was studying at the time - I said in my provisional 
decision that she'd provided evidence to support this. But for the reasons I've set out both in 
my provisional decision and above, I'm not persuaded Miss N was a full-time student thus 
rendering the policy unsuitable for her.
So again, I'm sorry to disappoint Miss N. But for the reasons above, I don't think PPI was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss N.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss N any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman