DRN-2386919
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Domestic & General Services Limited (DGS) caused damage to her 
property when carrying out a repair under her kitchen appliance cover plan. 
What happened
Mrs P held a kitchen appliance cover plan, provided by DGS. 
In 2015, Mrs P experienced a problem with one of her kitchen appliances and DGS arranged 
for the appliance manufacturer to send an engineer to attend at her property on two 
occasions.  
Mrs P says this engineer damaged the appliance, which was subsequently replaced by DGS 
under Mrs Ps cover plan. DGS says this was done as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs P says the 
engineer also damaged her worktop, her sink, saucepans and cutlery with the sealant he 
used. 
Mrs P says DGS originally told her to have these items replaced, which Mrs P did at a total 
cost of £1,507, and that it would reimburse her. However, Mrs P says DGS later told her 
shed need to contact the appliance manufacturer about the matter, as it was the appliance 
manufacturer who employed the engineer. 
In 2019, Mrs P complained. Both the appliance manufacturer and DGS told Mrs P they 
wouldnt be accepting responsibility for any damage caused. Mrs P then brought her 
complaint about DGS to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think she could fairly 
hold DGS responsible for any damage caused to Mrs Ps property. 
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of the event complained about here  the work carried out on Mrs Ps kitchen 
appliance in 2015  DGS fell under the Compulsory Jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps kitchen appliance 
cover plan, and Ive considered relevant case law and regulatory guidance. Having done so, 
Im satisfied Mrs Ps kitchen appliance cover plan contains all the features of a contract of 
insurance. This means I think Mrs Ps complaint about DGS is one which this service has the 
power to consider.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ps kitchen appliance cover plan say DGS will, in certain 
circumstances, approve a repair. The documents say, only repairers approved by us are 
authorised to carry out repairs under this plan.
DGS undertook to provide assistance in the event of a breakdown of Mrs Ps kitchen 
appliance in certain circumstances in return for the payment by Mrs P of a fee for the plan. 
Mrs P had no input into who DGS sent to her property to repair her appliance.
From Mrs Ps point of view, the repair was arranged by DGS in line with its obligations under 
the terms and conditions of her plan. So, while the appliance manufacturer might be a 
separate company to DGS, I dont think its fair or reasonable for DGS to take the position 
that its not responsible for anything that happened at Mrs Ps property. 
Longstanding industry rules say claims should be handled fairly and I think this means, if any 
damage was caused at Mrs Ps property by an engineer arranged by DGS, it would be fair 
and reasonable for DGS to put this damage right. It would then be open to DGS to pursue its 
losses from the appliance manufacturer directly, but I dont think Mrs P should be 
disadvantaged by the commercial arrangements between DGS and the appliance 
manufacturer or passed back and forth between the two companies. 
Having reviewed DGSs complaint notes and listened to the telephone calls between Mrs P 
and DGS from 2015, I think DGS could have done more to take ownership of the complaint 
at the time rather than repeatedly passing Mrs P on to the appliance manufacturer with her 
concerns, which clearly caused Mrs P confusion and frustration. Mrs P has also complained 
about the way she was spoken to by some of DGSs staff on the telephone and DGS has 
acknowledged it didnt deliver the level of service it would expect. 
Turning to the damage which Mrs P says was caused at her property, my role is to consider 
the evidence which has been provided by both parties to the complaint. I have no way of 
knowing for certain exactly what happened at Mrs Ps property, so I need to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, based on what I think is most likely to have 
happened taking into account the evidence which is available to me. 
Quite some time has passed since the original incident. I understand Mrs Ps reasons for not 
pursing the matter earlier, and Im sorry to hear she has been through a difficult time, but the 
passage of time means I dont think it would now be reasonable to expect DGS to try to 
obtain additional evidence about something that happened over five years ago.  
Notes from the time, as well as the content of one of the telephone calls between Mrs P and 
DGS, indicate that some damage was already done to the worktop before the engineer 
attended, as a result of the fault with the kitchen appliance. DGS isnt responsible for any 
damage caused to Mrs Ps property by the initial fault with the appliance. 
Ive considered the photographs of her worktop, sink and saucepans which Mrs P has 
provided, and I dont think its clear from these photographs that damage has been caused 
to such an extent that would require these items to be replaced.  
Even if I thought the photographs showed significant damage, in order to uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint, Id need to be satisfied that the damage wouldnt have happened were it not for 
the engineers actions. The engineers notes from his first attendance say the person present 
in the property at the time was told not to use the appliance for 24 hours. However, theres a 
suggestion from Mrs Ps contact with DGS that this timescale wasnt adhered to. This means 
I cant rule out the possibility that using the appliance sooner than instructed contributed to 
any damage caused. Ive considered what Mrs P has told us about the second engineers visit, which is when she 
says the damage was caused by the sealant used. Mrs P says the named engineer admitted 
the damage and gave a verbal statement to either DGS or the appliance manufacturer about 
the matter. Mrs P also says it was suggested that she should send her cutlery to the 
appliance manufacturer for cleaning, and that she received an email from DGS saying it 
would pay for the damage. Unfortunately, Mrs P cannot retrieve this email. 
In order to reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable to both parties, I need to balance 
Mrs Ps recollection of events with the evidence DGS has provided. 
Ive listened to several telephone calls between DGS and Mrs P. DGS didnt agree to accept 
responsibility for any damage caused during these calls. DGSs notes contain no reference 
to it agreeing to pay for any damage, and I havent seen any record of DGS sending the 
email Mrs P has mentioned. The information DGS has provided suggests the engineer told 
the appliance manufacturer that Mrs P was alleging hed caused damage to her property but 
says he did not accept responsibility for any damage caused.  
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant fairly say its more likely than not that DGS 
is responsible for any damage caused at Mrs Ps property. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but I wont be asking DGS to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman