DRN-3116591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt tell them their monthly 
payments would increase after their payment deferrals. They also complain that Halifax 
applied a new interest rate product without their consent. Theyd like their monthly payments 
to be the same as they were paying in March 2020.
What happened
Halifax granted Mr and Mrs S payment deferrals for March to May 2020. However it gave 
them incorrect information about how this would affect their contractual monthly payments 
(CMP). Their CMP also changed due to their interest rate product ending.
Our investigator said Halifax made an error when it wrote to Mr and Mrs S in March 2020 
saying their CMP would be the same after their payment deferral ended. However, he said 
as Mr and Mrs S do need to repay the three missed payments, the error didnt cause them 
any loss. Halifax paid compensation of £100 for the upset caused and the investigator said 
this was fair. 
Mr and Mrs S say a broker asked for a new product without their consent and Halifax 
shouldnt have applied it without checking with them. Our investigator said as Halifax 
cancelled the product this didnt cause Mr and Mrs S any loss.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr S made detailed comments about what happened and the 
errors made by Halifax. He said if theyd known their CMP would increase they could have 
used some of the grants they received to pay the mortgage instead of applying them 
elsewhere. Mr S said they suffered financially for acting on Halifaxs advice about their CMP 
in March 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Changes to the CMP due to the payment deferral
Mr S asked Halifax for a payment deferral in March 2020. The nature of his work required 
him to go into other peoples houses which, understandably, he didnt want to do during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs S in March 2020 confirming the payment deferral. This letter 
said their balance would increase as theyd be charged interest, and their contractual 
monthly payments (CMP) would be amended after the payment deferral ended. However, 
the letter also said as their payment deferral was for a short period it had been able to 
recalculate their account and their monthly payment from June 2020 would be £1,177  the 
same as in March 2020. This was wrong. And Halifax made a further error when it re-
calculated the June payment after the payment deferral. 
The payment deferral that Mr and Mrs S asked for meant they missed three repayments of 
capital and interest. This has to be repaid at some point. If Mr and Mrs S dont repay the 
three months missed payments, either with a lump sum or an increase in their CMP, they will 
have an unpaid balance when their mortgage term expires. I dont think that would be a fair 
outcome for either party.
Mr S says if theyd known the CMP would increase theyd have paid the CMP from the 
grants they received instead of taking a payment deferral. I dont know if they would have 
done this or not. But Mr and Mrs S didnt lose this money. They retained the money that 
theyd otherwise have paid to Halifax and say they used it for other purposes. I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to require Halifax to write off these repayments.
Halifax said Mr and Mrs S could pay a lump sum amount equivalent to the three months 
payments  this would put their account into the position theyd have been in if they hadnt 
taken the payment deferral. Mr and Mrs S either didnt want to do this or were unable to do 
so. If repayment of the missed payments is to be spread over the remaining term of the 
mortgage, Mr and Mrs Ss CMP will have to increase. 
Changes to the CMP due to different interest rate products
Even if Mr and Mrs S hadnt taken a payment deferral their CMP would have changed as 
one of their interest rate products ended in May 2020. Halifax would have applied its 
standard variable rate, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the mortgage. 
However, the broker that recommended the mortgage to Mr and Mrs S applied for a new 
product on their behalf. Halifax applied the lower product rate to their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S told Halifax they didnt agree to the new product and Halifax removed it and 
applied its standard variable rate from October 2020. This meant the CMP changed again. 
When Halifax applied the product rate it didnt know the broker had acted without Mr and 
Mrs Ss consent. Once it knew this it removed the product. I dont think Mr and Mrs S 
suffered any loss due to this  in fact they benefitted from a lower interest rate for several 
months.
What should Halifax do now?
Halifax accepts it made an error and paid compensation of £100. Mr and Mrs S say it should 
change their CMP to £1,177 as set out in the March letter. I dont think thats reasonable. 
While Halifax made errors its fair that the CMP takes into account the missed payments 
during the payment deferrals and the change in interest rate when their product ended. 
Mr and Mrs S said Halifax hadnt told the broker not to contact them. The broker was 
previously appointed by Mr and Mrs S, not by Halifax. The broker contacted Mr and Mrs S to 
offer mortgage advice. I cant ask Halifax to tell the broker Mr and Mrs S dont want its 
services  this is something Mr and Mrs S will need to do themselves.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think that Bank of 
Scotland UK plc has done enough to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman