DRN-2017817
The complaint
Ms E says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in one of the banks branches in 1998. The 
policy was taken out at the same time as Ms E applied for a credit card. It gave her accident, 
sickness, unemployment and unemployment protection. And it included some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms E disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. Ive 
decided not to uphold Ms Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms E says the lender mentioned PPI as something she had to have. I cant know what was 
said in the meeting, but Ive looked at the paperwork from the sale. The credit card 
application form set out the options to select or decline PPI with equal prominence. Ms E 
indicated that she wanted it. I have thought carefully about Ms Es comments, but I also have 
to consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what she recalls.
Overall, I think Barclays made it clear to Ms E that PPI was optional, and she chose to take 
it. 
Barclays recommend the PPI to Ms E, so it had to check if it was suitable for her. Based on 
what I know of her circumstances at the time I think it was, Ms E told us she was entitled to 
three months full pay and three months half pay if she was sick. But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. I think the PPI would have been useful 
for Ms E if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Barclays didnt give Ms E all the information about the PPI that she needed 
before she made her decision. But Ms E chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. On balance, given her 
circumstances and the policy terms, I think it unlikely Ms E wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms E. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms E because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms E about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms E, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays 
Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms E.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms E any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman