DRN-3578562
The complaint
Mr B complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to provide finance so he could purchase a timeshare 
product (the product) without checking if he could afford to repay what he owed. And it was 
wrong of BPF to decline claims he made about the product being mis-sold.
Mr B and Mrs B seem to have taken out the timeshare agreement in joint names. However 
the loan agreement is in Mr Bs sole name. This means hes the complainant who is eligible 
to bring this complaint to our service. And Ive referred to Mr B alone in this decision.
Mr B is represented by a firm of solicitors but I will refer (generally) to whats been said on 
his behalf as if Mr B had said it himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr B acquired the product - which cost about £13,000 - in October 2010. He funded the 
purchase with a fixed sum loan from BPF. In May 2018 he contacted BPF (via his 
representatives) to raise a complaint and said (in summary):-
the product was mis-sold using high pressure sales tactics, the product agreement 
is complex and wasnt explained properly and misrepresentations were made that 
induced him to buy the product and take out the finance;
BPF is liable equally with the product provider (the supplier) for breach of contract 
and misrepresentation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA);
the supplier arranged the finance and failed to act in Mr Bs best interests and warn 
him about risks associated with the purchase and comply with its duty of care;
BPF would have paid commission to the supplier which should have been disclosed 
at the point of sale, it wasnt (and it still hasnt been) disclosed and the debtor-
creditor relationship is unfair under section 140A of the CCA;
BPF failed to carry out proper checks to ensure that Mr B could afford to repay the 
finance.
BPF rejected Mr Bs claims. It said hes out of time - under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) - to 
bring a claim against the supplier so the time to bring any like claim against BPF under 
section 75 has also expired. In addition BPF thought it was too late (under the LA) for Mr B 
to bring a claim under section 140A and Mr B is out of time to refer his complaint to this 
service under our rules.
Unhappy with that response Mr B brought the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the evidence. He was satisfied that we can look into the complaint because (in 
summary) our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more 
than six years after the event complained of, or (if later) three years from the date on which 
the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had 
cause for complaint - unless the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of 
exceptional circumstances.
The investigator considered Mr Bs complaint here is that BPF failed to fulfil its obligations - 
because he hasnt had satisfactory compensation for his claims. And, when assessing and 
declining a claim under the CCA, a business is exercising its rights and duties under a 
regulated credit agreement. So, the event complained of in this case is BPFs decision, in 
June 2018, to decline Mr Bs claims regarding the timeshare and Mr B brought his complaint 
to us soon after that - well within the six-year time limit specified.
Satisfied that we are able to look at Mr Bs complaint, the investigator went on to consider 
the merits. He didnt think Mr B had provided enough evidence to reasonably conclude that it 
was irresponsible of BPF to provide the loan and the borrowing was unaffordable for him. He 
accepted BPF is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for breach of contract and 
misrepresentation (by the supplier) under section 75. But, he thought the time to bring any 
like claim against BPF expired at the same time as any claim against the supplier - under 
the LA - and its reasonable to take this into account.
He considered the relevant time limits and concluded that Mr B had six years from the date 
he purchased the product to bring any relevant claim. The investigator acknowledged that Mr 
B may not have known this until after the six years had passed. But, he was satisfied that 
doesnt extend time and Mr B needed to bring any section 75 claim here no later October 
2016 - so he was likely out of time when he complained to BPF in 2018.
The investigator also looked at section 140A of the CCA (which allows the courts to make an 
order under section 140B if its determined that the relationship between the creditor and 
debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor). He was satisfied that the LA also 
applies to a section 140A claim. He thought Mr B would have needed to bring any such 
claim within six years of the date the relationship with BPF ended  in June 2011, when he 
settled the finance. And, as Mr B didnt complain to BPF until 2018, this claim is probably 
time barred as well.
The investigator accepted its ultimately a matter for the courts to decide if time has expired 
under the LA. But, he was satisfied that Mr B was probably out of time to bring these claims, 
its reasonable to take this into account and it wasnt wrong of BPF to decline the claims.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld and Mr B disagreed so 
he asked for the matter to be referred to ombudsman. His representatives say the 
investigator is wrong about when limitation starts to run. They think this would not have 
commenced until Mr B had relevant knowledge and/or it is extended under section 32 of the 
LA.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators. And I thought it was fair to give the 
parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted to) before I 
made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 10 June 2022. Ive set out what I 
decided provisionally (and why) below  this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision about the merits of 
this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.Mr Bs representatives have provided detailed submissions and made reference to various 
regulations, legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of the law 
and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision. And I want to assure Mr B that, if I dont address 
every point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered 
everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on 
what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service
I have considered whether this complaint comes within the jurisdiction of our service. BPF 
has suggested it doesnt, because Mr B is complaining about events that took place in 2010 
and it was more than six years after that before he brought his complaint to us. The rules 
about the complaints we can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook. These are known 
as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply with the time limits 
was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a complaint if a 
consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
To decide if this complaint is one that we can look into, Ive considered what Mr B is 
complaining about exactly. I think its clear hes unhappy because he feels BPF failed to fulfil 
its obligations under the CCA when it rejected claims he made under sections 75 and 140A 
arising out of his purchase of the product.
Jurisdiction and Mr Bs section 75 claim
Im satisfied that the exercise of a lenders rights and duties under a credit agreement is a 
regulated activity under (Article 60(B)(2) of the FSMA (Regulated Activities Order 2001). A 
creditor has a duty to comply with the CCA and I think considering a claim under the CCA is 
ancillary to - and carried on in connection with - a regulated activity.
I find the event (as referred to at DISP 2.8.2(2)(a) above) that Mr B is complaining here 
about is BPFs rejection of the claim he made under the CCA so the relevant date is when 
BPF declined his complaint - in June 2018. Mr B brought this complaint to our service not 
long after that and Im satisfied hes not out of time to do so. Accordingly I find this part of Mr 
Bs complaint falls within the jurisdiction of this service and we can consider it.
Jurisdiction and section 140A
Mr B also considers the acts and omissions of the product supplier resulted in an unfair 
relationship between him and BPF. I think that amounts to a claim under section 140A of the 
CCA, so Ive given some thought as to whether this part of the complaint falls within our 
jurisdiction.
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that the events complained of (for the 
purposes of section 140A) took place at the point of sale in 2010. So, I cant reasonably 
conclude that this part of Mr Bs complaint was brought to us within the six-year period set 
out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2R, as outlined above. Ive gone on to consider the second 
limb of DISP 2.8.2 - when Mr B knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint - to see if this extends the time under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b).I think Mr Bs representatives suggest that he first became aware that he had cause for 
complaint when he sought professional advice, which looks to have been in 2018. From the 
evidence Ive got, taking into account the acts and omissions complained about, I think Mr B 
should reasonably have known that something might have gone wrong as a result of the 
suppliers acts and/or omissions before that. But, I accept this is not the same as Mr B 
knowing that he had cause for complaint against BPF. And, whilst Mr B may have known 
that something might have gone wrong with the supplier, I dont think its reasonable to 
assume that he would have realised that this might have made the relationship between him 
and BPF unfair  or that he had grounds to complain about BPF.
For that to be the case, I think Mr B would have needed to know there was a problem that 
caused him to lose out because of something BPF did (or didnt do). Im not persuaded that 
Mr B knew (or ought to have known) that he had cause for complaint against BPF before 
2018. Im satisfied he brought his complaint to us within three years of that and I find this 
part of the complaint comes within our jurisdiction as well.
Merits of the complaint
In light of the above, Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mr Bs complaint. Mr B brings 
claims against BPF under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA and Im considering whether 
BPF has provided a fair and reasonable response to those claims in this decision. Our 
investigator thinks any right Mr B had to bring these claims against BPF is probably out of 
time under the LA. If thats correct then I think its something BPF could reasonably take into 
account when it decided to decline Mr Bs claims. I should make it clear however that Im not 
deciding here if any right that Mr B may have to bring the relevant claims has expired under 
the LA  thats a matter for the courts.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a 
supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, in certain 
circumstances. Section 75 requires a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship which BPF says 
was not present here. I havent reached any conclusions about that because Im not minded 
to uphold Mr Bs complaint for other reasons  as Ive explained below.
Mr B claims that misrepresentations were made and I think sections 2, and 9 of the LA are 
relevant. Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums recoverable 
under statute. Both sections impose a limitation period of six years from the date that a 
cause of action accrues. And Im satisfied the date on which the cause of action accrued in 
this case will be the same as the date upon which the misrepresentation alleged under 
section 75 became actionable  that is the date the damage is suffered.
I think any relevant damage would have been incurred when Mr B bought the product and 
took out the finance - amongst other things, this was when he incurred any liability under the 
product agreement and paid for the benefits which he says were misrepresented. This 
means Mr B would have needed to bring any claim under section 75 within six years of the 
date of the timeshare transaction  in 2010. Im satisfied that more than six years had 
passed before Mr B contacted BPF in 2018. I think the period within which he had to bring 
an action under section 75 had probably expired by this point. And I cant reasonably 
conclude that it was wrong of BPF to decline his section 75 claim.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I 
think this is relevant law and Ive taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit within which Mr B had to bring any relevant claim is six years 
from the date the debtor-creditor relationship ended. Evidence supplied by BPF shows that 
the finance was settled in June 2011. On the evidence I have at the moment, Im satisfied 
that the finance BPF provided in 2010 was repaid in full in June 2011. I think Mr B would 
have needed to bring any claim under section 140A within six years of that date - no later 
than June 2017. Im satisfied he didnt raise this claim with BPF until 2018 and any right he 
had to bring such a claim had probably expired by then. So, Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable for BPF to decline Mr Bs section 140 claim.
I realise Mr B may feel its unfair that I have referred here to time limits that he was unaware 
of. Im afraid lack of knowledge of relevant time limits isnt generally accepted as grounds for 
extending limitation. But, I have given some thought as to whether there are other grounds to 
do so.
Section 32 LA
Mr Bs representatives refer to section 32 of the LA which relates to the extension of time for 
starting an action if fraud, mistake or concealment are found - or could with reasonable 
diligence have been discovered. Ive considered this but, for the reasons Ive set out below, 
Im not persuaded that section 32 helps Mr B in these particular circumstances.
As far as I can see, Mr B probably used the product he bought with the finance BPF 
provided in 2010, not long after he got it. And, given the nature of the misrepresentations 
alleged, I think Mr B would probably have realised that he wasnt receiving the services he 
expected and the benefits (he says he was told at the outset would be provided) might have 
been misrepresented fairly early on. I cant be certain thats the case. But Im minded to find, 
on balance, its more likely than not Mr B had enough information to enable him to bring any 
relevant claims within the time limits referred to. And I dont think its unreasonable to expect 
him to have done so.
I have considered what Mr Bs representatives have said about commission they think would 
have been paid by BPF to the supplier. They consider Mr B should have been told about this 
at the time - and its wrong that this still hasnt been disclosed. BPF hasnt provided details of 
what, if any, commission was paid. But, as far as Im aware, the levels of commission that 
were normally paid in this sort of situation (at the relevant time) werent high enough to mean 
that BPF should have appreciated not telling Mr B about any commission paid risked the 
debtor-creditor relationship being unfair under section 140A.
I think if any commission was paid (which is not certain) its unlikely to have been more than 
10%. I cant see that BPF would have breached any duty in making such a payment. And Im 
not persuaded that BPF was under an obligation to disclose the amount of any commission 
paid in these circumstances.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the supplier was acting as agent to Mr B or owed him a 
fiduciary duty in this situation. I dont think the suppliers role was to make an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation. And Im not persuaded it was required to disclose any 
commission (that may have been paid by BPF) to Mr B either.
It follows I dont think section 32 helps Mr B. But, even if Im wrong about that, I consider if 
any commission was paid it probably didnt exceed 10%. And Im not persuaded that a court 
is likely to find this created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship, in any event.Section 14A LA
Im not persuaded that section 14A of the LA (which provides for a second period in which a 
claim for negligence can be made) applies here. Looking at what happened when Mr B 
purchased the product and took out the finance (and having considered the relevant 
documentation), I think there was an obligation to give Mr B sufficient appropriate and timely 
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan. 
But, Im not persuaded a duty of care arose - or advice was provided - that could give rise to 
a claim to which this section could apply
Unaffordable lending
Mr B says proper credit checks were not undertaken before lending and it was irresponsible 
of BPF to provide this finance. I accept BPF was required to undertake checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr B was likely to be able to afford to repay the borrowing without too much 
trouble. But, even if I were to find BPF didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, 
I would still need to be satisfied that this loan was actually unaffordable for Mr B to 
reasonably uphold this part of his complaint.
I havent got much information about Mr Bs circumstances at the relevant time. I can see we 
asked him for more evidence about this  such as his income at the time  as well as other 
information and he hasnt supplied anything further. On the current information, Im not 
satisfied that the finance was unaffordable and I cant reasonably uphold this part of Mr Bs 
complaint.
Conclusions
As Ive said already, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr B may have 
against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, 
I think any claim that Mr B might have against the supplier and/or BPF has probably 
exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think its reasonable to take this into account.
And, for the reasons set out, Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable 
grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr B unfairly or acted 
unreasonably so I cant properly require BPF to compensate him or do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any comments or 
information (that I hadnt seen before) by 24 June 2022. I explained that Id review all the 
evidence available after that and make my final decision. Mr B hasnt objected to my 
provisional findings or made any further submissions and BPF says it has nothing further to 
add. 
I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional findings in the circumstances. Im 
not persuaded that there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. 
I dont think BPF has treated Mr B unfairly or acted unreasonably and I cant properly require 
BPF to compensate him or do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that this service is able to consider Mr Bs complaint and (having done so) I am unable to uphold it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman