DRN-3811954
The complaint
Mr B and Ms O complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited have offered an unfair 
settlement for their claim on their home insurance.
Mr B and Ms O have been represented by a third party throughout this complaint, but for 
ease of reading all references to Mr B and Ms O include the actions of their representative. 
What happened
Mr B and Ms O have home insurance with Admiral. In November 2018 there was a water 
leak at their property that caused significant damage to the ground floor. They made a claim 
which Admiral accepted. 
It dried out the property and started to scope up repairs. Admiral initially appointed a 
contractor however Mr B and Ms O were unhappy with the selection as they failed to attend 
the property on a number of occasions. Another was appointed and they set to work 
replacing the floor, however once laid the floor was at a higher level than it had been 
previously and was uneven. This meant that the doors at the property couldnt close. 
Due to this Admiral agreed to cash settle the remainder of the required repair work. It initially 
offered around £19,000 however later decreased this amount to £6,000. Mr B and Ms O 
werent happy with this offer and got their own quote which was around £27,000. 
In 2022 they made a complaint as they said the claim had been going on for years and 
repairs still hadnt been completed which was unacceptable. They also didnt think Admirals 
cash settlement offer was a fair one because it was significantly less than their own quote 
and had been decreased with no explanation. 
Admiral accepted it had provided poor service and offered £300 compensation to make up 
for this. However it said it wouldnt comment on the cash settlement offer as this had been 
addressed in a previous complaint, but it was satisfied the most recent offer of around 
£6,000 was a fair one. 
Mr B and Ms O didnt think this was fair as they said the cash settlement offered was far too 
low and wouldnt allow them to repair their property. They brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
thought Admiral should offer Mr B and Ms O the choice of three different surveyors so they 
can pick one to do a full report on the damage and provide a quote for the remaining claim 
related repairs. She also thought Admiral should pay an additional £500 compensation for 
the distress it had caused by the delays to the claim.
Mr B and Ms O accepted our investigators outcome. However Admiral didnt respond. As 
agreement wasnt reached the matter came to me to decide. 
When the complaint came to me I wrote to Admiral to try and obtain additional information 
about its cash settlement and a breakdown of how it met its liability under the policy. And I 
said I didnt think it had done enough to show that the cash settlement was fair. It said it 
would provide a breakdown of its liability but it failed to do so. 
I therefore said that as Admiral had failed to show the cash settlement was sufficient our 
investigators suggestion was a fair one. However I also thought Admiral should cover the 
full cost of relaying the floors, as it was its contractor who laid these and ended up putting Mr 
B and Ms O in a worse position because of it. 
I therefore said I intended to require Admiral to:
Provide a breakdown of the limit of their liability. 
Suggest three contractors with one chosen by the consumer. They will attend the 
property and put together a quote for the remaining work that falls within policy cover.
The quote will include the relaying of the floors.
Cash settle based on the contractors quote.
Pay £500 compensation.
Admiral responded to say it would provide a detail of the limit of its liability and confirmed it 
agreed to out investigators original recommendation. However despite numerous requests it 
has failed to provide detail of the limit of its liability.
Mr B and Ms O confirmed they accepted my provisional outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this complaint, Ive been provided with three different quotes for a cash settlement. 
Admirals original quote of around £19,000, its more recent offer of around £6,000 and Mr B 
and Ms Os quote of £27,000. While Admiral has said that Mr B and Ms Os quote includes 
work that is above its liability under the policy, it has failed to explain why or to provide a 
breakdown of how its own cash settlement meets its liability. I therefore am not satisfied that 
its done enough to show that it has offered a fair settlement for the claim. 
Further, Admiral said in its final response to Mr B and Ms Os complaint that it couldnt 
comment on the cash settlement at all as it had been dealt with as part of a different 
complaint. However it accepts in the same letter that the cash settlement had been amended 
since this time as the first one was incorrect. As the cash settlement was amended, I dont 
consider that this matter was dealt with in a previous complaint, and it should have been 
dealt with under this one. Which is why I have considered it here. 
As Admiral has provided no further information about why the quotes it has provided cover 
the full cost of its liability, I see no reason to depart from my provisional outcome and will 
require Admiral to suggest three contractors for Mr B and Ms O to choose from. Their 
selected contractor should then attend the property and put together a quote for all claim 
related repairs at the property. Admiral should then cash settle based on this quote.
 
I also maintain my position that the quote should include the full relaying of the floors. While I 
appreciate Admirals argument that the type of flooring itself was the reason the floor was 
uneven once complete, it is the responsibility of its contractors to ensure a good standard 
and lasting and effective repair when they carry out work. And in this instance if laying the 
floor was going to leave an uneven finish and prevent doors from closing, Id have expected 
the contractors to put measures in place to counter this. However Ive not seen that this was the case. Further, it is the purpose of insurance to put its customer back in the position they 
were in before the claim and the new flooring has put Mr B and Ms O in a worse position. I 
therefore think its fair and reasonable that Admiral cover the cost of relaying the floor as part 
of the cash settlement.
I should add that I have previously asked that Admiral provide a breakdown of its liability 
before the contractor quotes for the work. However as it has failed to do so in spite of the 
ample time I have given it, and in the interest of not delaying the claim further, I think it 
should proceed to appointing a contractor without this. 
Further, it is now over three years since the claim was initially made and there are still 
extensive outstanding repairs at the property. From what Ive seen this is largely due to 
failures by the contractors that have been appointed by Admiral and the unfair cash 
settlement it offered initially. Because of this, I maintain my position that it should pay an 
additional £500 compensation on top of the £300 already offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Suggest three contractors with one chosen by the Mr B and Ms O They will attend 
the property and put together a quote for the remaining work that falls within policy 
cover.
The quote will include the relaying of the floors.
Cash settle based on the contractors quote.
Pay an additional £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman