DRN-4353539
The complaint
Mr H has complained Monzo Bank Ltd added a marker against his name onto the industry 
fraud database, CIFAS, and closed his account.
What happened
Monzo closed Mr Hs bank account in December 2022 after it had been open a couple of 
months. Mr H tried to open accounts with at least three other banks, but these were either 
closed or his applications were rejected.
Mr H discovered Monzo had added a fraud-related marker against his record so appealed 
against this. Monzo agreed to remove the marker and provided Mr H with £100 
compensation.
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He didnt believe this was sufficient 
compensation for the disruptive impact this had had on his life.
Our investigator felt overall that Monzo had acted fairly, and she wouldnt ask them to do 
anything further.
Mr H continued to protest and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He believed 
hed lost out on employment opportunities as he was unable to open a bank account. This 
had also had an impact on his education.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly its clear that Monzo agreed to remove the CIFAS marker lodged against Mr Hs 
record. Theyve confirmed this was because they didnt feel theyd necessarily met the 
requirements needed prior to lodging a marker. 
Its therefore not for me to decide whether the marker should have been there at all but 
whether Monzo has provided sufficient compensation for the disruption caused to Mr H.
Monzo has offered Mr H £100 for the period of time he was unable to secure a bank account 
because of the CIFAS marker. This period lasted just about three months or so. I appreciate 
there was some disruption and inconvenience. However Im not convinced it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask Monzo to provide further compensation to Mr H.
I say this in light of what I know about Mr Hs account with Monzo and the decision they took 
to close that account. Ive seen evidence about considerable funds paid into Mr Hs account 
from varied and different sources which he then paid out to one or two individuals. 
Overall Im satisfied that Monzo has provided a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Hs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against Monzo 
Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman