DRN-2914754
The complaint
Mr O complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) didnt 
provide him with an error message when he placed a stop loss order on an investment and 
his shares were sold at a lower price resulting in a financial loss.
What happened
On 1 June 2020, Mr O placed a stop loss order on his execution only share dealing account 
at Hargreaves. Mr O placed a stop loss on a company that I will call Company A.
Mr O placed a stop loss order at a price of 27.35p. The stop loss was set after the market 
had closed and Mr O says the price was showing at 27.45p when it was set.
The price of Company A opened at 25.75p and Mr Os stop loss was executed at a price of 
27.675.
Mr O complained to Hargreaves saying that he did not receive any warning that the stop loss 
price was set below the current share price. Hargreaves investigated Mr Os complaint but 
said that they had not done anything wrong and sometimes during auction periods, the 
selling price is higher than the buying price.
Although Hargreaves said that this was outside their control, they did offer Mr O £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill. Mr O was still not happy with the stance and said he should have 
received an error message.
Hargreaves couldnt say whether Mr O received an error message at the time he placed his 
stop loss order, but they said that this is what the system was designed to do. Hargreaves 
said that they would pay Mr O the difference between the purchase and sale price of 
Company A and this represented a payment of £132.94.
Mr O continued to be unhappy with Hargreaves decision and referred his complaint to the 
service. One of our investigators investigated Mt Os complaint but didnt uphold the 
complaint. The investigator didnt think that Hargreaves had done anything wrong and their 
goodwill offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr O has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint.
It is accepted by Hargreaves that Mr O placed his stop loss order at a price of 27.35p and it 
executed at a price of 25.675p. I need to consider if Hargreaves provided Mr O with a 
warning and if circumstances like this are covered within the terms and conditions of the 
service.
In their submission to the service, Hargreaves say that their data provider was reporting 
closing auction prices at the time Mr O placed his stop loss order. They say that closing 
auction prices are a normal feature of the stock market and this would explain why the 
selling price was higher than the purchase price.
Hargreaves say that they would expect clients to be presented with a message when the 
selling price is higher than the purchase price. They say that the deal entry screen and fact 
sheet presents clients with a warning that a stock is still in auction. 
Mr O says that he never received this warning when he placed his stop loss order. Mr O has 
provided a copy of what this warning would look like with another order and Hargreaves 
have presented another example of what the warning would look like if the stock was in 
auction.
As I was not present when Mr O placed the order and there is no screen image showing 
what was presented, I can only say what may have happened based on the balance of 
probability. Both Mr O and Hargreaves have presented images of the warning message that 
is presented when a stock is on auction and I think that on the balance of probability, this 
message was probably present when Mr O placed his stop loss order.
I do not doubt Mr Os recollection when he was placing his stop loss order, nor do I expect 
him to have kept a copy of what the screen was showing at the time. I have based my 
thinking on what is probably likely to have happened. 
I have looked at how stop loss orders work at Hargreaves and I can see that in some cases, 
a share price may fall beyond what is set and the shares would be sold at a lower price.  The 
terms and conditions say:
If the bid price is lower than your stop loss price when we attempt to place your deal, we will 
continue to place your deal at the lower price. In some cases, a share price that is falling 
could gap, for example moving straight from £1.20 to £0.90; if a stop price was set at £1.19 
the shares would still be sold at £0.90. 
Mr Os stop loss was set at 27.35p and the closing price was 25.15p. When the shares 
opened at 25.75p, stop loss orders would be triggered and Mr Os order was executed at a 
price of 25.675p. From what I have seen, the system worked as designed and in line with 
what the terms and conditions state.
I have looked at what Hargreaves have done in trying to resolve Mr Os complaint. 
Hargreaves have said that although there was no evidence to suggest that Mr O did not 
receive the warning as they would expect, they wanted to resolve the matter amicably.
I note that that Hargreaves have offered to pay Mr O the difference between the sale 
proceeds when the shares were sold on 2 June 2020 and the price that Mr O originally paid 
for his shares.
I think that this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As the price of 27.35p that 
Mr O input as his stop loss amount was never available to be traded in the market, I cant 
see that Hargreaves have done anything wrong and Im not going to ask them to do anything 
else.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman