DRN-3192478
The complaint
Ms S complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited (Wirecard) have refused to close the
account she holds with them and wont return the money in the account. 
What happened
Weve made repeated requests to Wirecard and their associated businesses, for
their version of events. To date, Wirecard havent responded. This means weve had to
assess the complaint based only on what Ms S has told us.
Ms S had a Wirecard pre-paid card account, with a balance of around £90. In March 2019,
Wirecard informed her that they would soon begin charging a monthly fee, so Ms S decided
to close her account.
She contacted Wirecard and asked them to do this. They told her that, as she couldnt
remember the PIN for her card, theyd need to send her a new one. When the card was
received, she still couldnt access her account. And she was told that shed need to send
them proof of her identity, such as a copy of her passport.
Ms S sent a copy of her passport, but then received an email reply from Wirecard,
questioning why shed done so. This worried Ms S as shed followed their instructions and
was concerned that her passport details had been sent to an inbox that was used by multiple
Wirecard staff. Given the confusion at Wirecard, she was concerned that her personal data
may have been compromised.
Wirecard eventually responded, advising that Ms S was too young to hold an account with
them and that it should never have been opened. But they didnt close the account. Ms S
says that since then, any attempt at contact has been ignored by Wirecard.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and agreed that Wirecard hadnt acted fairly. She
said that they should have closed the account when it became apparent that Ms S was too
young to hold one. 
To put things right, she recommended that Wirecard now close the account and refund the
balance, believed to be £89.55. She said they should also pay 8% interest on top of this,
from the date the account should have been closed, to the date they make the payment.
Our investigator also recommended they refund any charges that had been applied to the
account, as it should have been closed before the charges became applicable. And they
should pay £100 compensation for the poor customer service they provided.
Finally, they recommended that Wirecard remove any record of Ms Ss personal data from
their systems.
Ms S accepted our investigators opinion, but Wirecard didnt respond. So the case 
came to me for decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 November. In it, I said the following: -
Wirecard havent provided any information about this complaint. So my decision
will be mainly based on the evidence provided by Ms S. But Ive also looked at Wirecards
website, which has some terms and conditions for this type of account. And Ive taken them
into account as well.
Closing the account
Ms S says she never used her Wirecard account. So she decided to close it when Wirecard
told her they were going to introduce a monthly fee. She wasnt immediately able to do this,
as she couldnt remember the PIN for her card. When Wirecard sent her a new card, they
also required her to provide proof of ID before she could access her account.
Although Ive not seen proof, I accept what Ms S has told us about this. And I think its
reasonable for Wirecard to require some proof of ID when a consumer is unable to
remember the security details for accessing their account.
Ms S has told us that when she sent her proof of ID, Wirecard said that she was too young
to have an account. Looking at Wirecards website, this confirms that customers must be 18
or over to open an account.
Ms S is younger than this, so I think its more likely than not that this is what happened. And I
think that, when it became clear that Ms S didnt meet the criteria to hold an account,
Wirecard should have closed it immediately.
Monthly fees
The terms on the Wirecard website state that the monthly usage fee is chargeable until a
customer officially requests that the account be closed. Based on what Ms S has told us, she
made this request before any fees were taken. So I dont think the account should ever have
been subject to a monthly usage fee.
Customer service
Ms S says shes made repeated requests to Wirecard to get this matter resolved. But shes
been unable to get a response from them since the emails Ive referred to above.
Wirecard havent provided anything to suggest they handled her requests in a reasonable
manner. And I dont think Ms S would be bringing the complaint to us if Wirecard had
handled this in a satisfactory manner.
Having considered the available evidence I think Wirecards handling of this matter hasnt
been at a standard wed expect.
Data protection
Ms S has said that shes concerned Wirecard have breached GDPR rules by asking her to
send a copy of her passport to a shared mailbox. I appreciate that this may have worried
her, but I dont think this is inherently unreasonable. And I cant see that this has caused any
problems with Ms Ss data security. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint.I also cant recommend that Wirecard remove all personal data about Ms S. This is because
some data may need to be kept in line with GDPR rules. And its not our services role to
comment on this.
To put things right, I require Wirecard to close Ms Ss account and pay her the balance she
had in her account when it was discovered she wasnt eligible to hold it. If any charges have
been deducted from the balance since then, they should be refunded to ensure the sum she
receives is correct. Wirecard should also pay 8% simple interest on top of this amount, from
the date the account should have been closed to the date the payment is made.
I also require Wirecard to pay Ms S £100 as compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused by the poor customer service they provided.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Ms Ss complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision, Wirecard replied to ask for more details about Ms Ss 
account. We sent these to them on 11 November 2021. Since then, theyve not replied.
Ms S hasnt replied to my provisional decision either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any new arguments or evidence to change the opinion set out in 
my provisional decision  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Wirecard Card Solutions Limited.
To put things right I require Wirecard to pay Ms S £89.55, plus 8% simple interest from 
March 2019 until the date the money is refunded. And pay her £100 compensation for the 
poor customer service shes received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman