DRN-3409075
The complaint
Miss D complains about PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA and their decision to decline the 
dispute she raised under their Buyer Protection Policy (BPP).
What happened
In November 2021, Miss D made an online purchase worth $895 from Retailer B. The items 
Miss B purchased were due to be posted to her address.
But Miss D says she didnt receive these items, despite being told by the delivery service 
that the items had been received and signed for on 7 December. Miss D contacted Retailer 
B to arrange a refund. But a refund wasnt provided. And the delivery service explained 
Retailer B would need to raise a claim regarding the delivery of the items. Miss D requested 
Retailer B do this, but says this claim was never made. So, on 10 December, Miss D raised 
a dispute through PayPals BPP, stating the items shed paid for hadnt been received.
On 28 December, PayPal declined Miss Ds dispute as they felt Retailer B had provided 
evidence to show the items had been delivered. Miss D appealed this decision, but PayPal 
declined the dispute again on 17 January 2022. Miss D was unhappy about this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Miss D didnt think PayPals decision to decline her claim was fair. She explained the items 
hadnt been delivered to her home as shed been in the entire day the items were said to 
have been delivered. And she felt she had an e-mail from the delivery service which agreed 
the parcel had been lost. So, she wanted PayPal to refund her the $895 she paid to Retailer 
B, as the items she intended to purchase were needed to set up her own business and 
without these, and the money she paid, she was unable to do so.
PayPal responded to Miss Ds complaint and didnt agree. They thought they had declined 
Miss Ds dispute fairly, in line with the terms of their BPP, as Retailer B had provided 
evidence to show the items had been delivered. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Miss D remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She didnt think the evidence 
supplied by Retailer B showed the items had been delivered to Miss D. And she thought the 
e-mail Miss D provided from the delivery service suggested the parcel had been lost, which 
supported Miss Ds testimony that the items hadnt been received. So, while our investigator 
recognised Retailer B had provided information that may satisfy the terms of the BPP, she 
didnt think PayPal had acted fairly when relying on this in this situation. So, our investigator 
recommended that PayPal refund Miss D $895 (£692.51).
Miss D accepted this recommendation. But PayPal didnt. PayPal reiterated their stance that 
theyd declined the dispute fairly, in line with the terms of the BPP. And they didnt think the 
e-mail Miss D provided from the delivery service was evidence that the items hadnt been 
delivered, referring to the tracking number which they felt showed the item had been 
delivered on the delivery services website.
Our investigator responded to PayPal explaining why their view remained unchanged. 
PayPal didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
how Ive considered the complaint. My role is to consider the individual circumstances of this 
complaint and to decide on whether I think PayPal have acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining Miss Ds dispute. As part of this, I have considered the terms of the BPP Miss D 
raised her dispute within and thought about whether PayPal acted within these. But crucially, 
for me to decide that PayPal dont need to take any further action, as well as being satisfied 
they acted in line with the BPP, I also need to be satisfied that it was fair for them to do so. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I think its clear there is a very clear dispute between Miss D and PayPal regarding the 
delivery of the items and whether they were received. And Im unable to say for certain what 
did happen with the parcel containing the items as I wasnt involved in the delivery process. 
So, Ive instead thought about what I think was most likely to have happened, based on the 
evidence and information available to me. This included the testimony and actions of both 
Miss D.
Ive seen a significant amount of correspondence between Miss D and Retailer B, where 
Miss D has explained on several occasions the items werent delivered. I can see Miss D 
has also contacted the delivery service directly, as well as requesting Retailer B raised a 
disputed with the delivery service directly on their request. I dont think Miss D wouldve gone 
to these lengths had she received the items, so I think the actions she took supports her 
testimony that they werent received.
Ive also seen an email from the delivery service to Miss D, which states Unfortunately, the 
driver hasnt been able to provide any further details on where he delivered your package, so 
I regret to inform you it has been lost. Please inform the sender of this, and they can work on 
either a refund or replacement whichever you prefer, then they can raise a claim through our 
Customer Service team. I think this e-mail supports Miss Ds testimony as it represents the 
delivery service agreeing that the package hadnt been delivered.
I recognise PayPal doesnt think this e-mail is valid, stating it doesnt contain a reference 
number to confirm which package it relates to. But in the subject line, the number provided 
correlates directly with the package number the delivery service confirmed as the disputed 
parcel in a previous e-mail. The e-mail also confirms it is in response to the package that 
was listed as delivered in 7 December 2021, which is the same day that the disputed items 
were said to have been delivered. So, Im satisfied this e-mail refers directly to the items 
included within Miss Ds dispute.
And I think this also addresses PayPals point regarding the fact the delivery services 
system shows the package as delivered. This has never been in dispute by the service, or 
Miss D. What is in dispute is where the package was delivered to. So, I would expect the 
tracking number to show that the parcel has been delivered and I dont think this in itself is enough to show that PayPal acted fairly when disputing the claim.
The tracking number shows the parcel was delivered to a generic area, rather than a specific 
address. And Miss D has disputed the signature used to sign for the parcel. The delivery 
service have confirmed the delivery driver couldnt confirm the parcel was delivered directly 
to Miss D, or her address, and agreed it had been lost because of this. So, based on the 
evidence and information available to me, I think its more reasonable than not that the 
package was indeed lost, and not delivered to Miss D. 
Because of this, I dont think Im able to say that PayPal acted fairly when declining the 
claim. 
I recognise any claims made through the BPP arent guaranteed to be upheld. And I 
appreciate PayPal believe Retailer B provided evidence that met the criteria for a decline, 
citing the specific term which explains a claim will not qualify under the BPP if The seller 
has provided proof of delivery. So, I understand why PayPal say theyve acted within the 
terms of the BPP, which is what they are required to do. But as I explained earlier within my 
decision, I also need to be satisfied PayPal acted fairly when relying on the terms within the 
BPP. And so, Id expect them to consider all the evidence provided to them and reach a 
reasonable conclusion. I dont think they have in this situation. So, as I dont think PayPal 
have acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think they should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Miss D back in the position she wouldve 
been, had PayPal acted fairly in the first instance. In this situation, had PayPal acted fairly, I 
think they wouldve upheld Miss Ds dispute and refunded her the amount she paid to 
Retailer B. So, I think they should now refund Miss D this amount to ensure she isnt at a 
financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Ds complaint about PayPal (Europe) Sarl et 
Cie SCA and direct them to take the following action:
Refund Miss D the £692.51 she paid to Retailer B for the items she didnt receive.
:
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman