DRN-3708035
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) wont allow him to take only his 
enhanced tax-free cash from his Section 32 (s32) pension plan without him first taking 
financial advice from an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA).  
What happened
Mr S has an s32 plan with SW since 2018, after it was transferred to SW from another 
provider. 
S32 plans are a type of individual pension policy used to receive a transfer from an 
occupational pension scheme into a personal pension. Once set up, s32 plans couldnt 
accept further transfers from other workplace pensions, or contributions from the consumer 
or their employer.
Mr Ss s32 plan has a Protected Tax-Free Cash (PTFC) sum which is more than the now 
typical maximum 25% of the fund value limit allowed by HMRC. In 2021, Mr S was looking at 
his options about consolidating his pensions and taking Tax-Free Cash (TFC) where 
available from all his pensions. 
Mr S contacted SW to begin the process of withdrawing the PTFC. On 30 November 2021, 
he said that SW told him that he could take his PTFC of 44.3% of the fund value, but that he 
would need advice from an IFA first. He said he was told that alternatively, he could take the 
normal TFC amount of 25% without the need for advice. Mr S could also transfer his plan to 
a new policy with a different provider, but the PTFC would be lost. 
Mr S was unhappy with this so complained to SW. He made the following points:
- Hed been told that his pension had an enhanced TFC lump sum equal to 
approximately 44% or £13,000. And that he couldnt take this level of lump sum 
unless he got advice first. He didnt think the requirement for advice was in his 
interests, or that it would serve any useful purpose. He also felt that the value of the 
enhanced TFC benefit was lower than the potential cost of the required advice. Mr S 
said that unless SW removed the requirement for advice or agreed to pay for the 
advice or pay him damages, he would take his complaint further.
- He felt it was immoral and cynical to impose additional costs on a benefit he was 
entitled to. And that the requirement for advice effectively trapped him within SW. 
This was because he either had to pay for advice or lose the enhanced TFC if he 
wanted to transfer his pension elsewhere. 
- He said that SW had never told him hed need advice in order to take an enhanced 
TFC. And that if he had been told, he wouldve transferred it to another provider 
several years ago and been financially better off. He felt hed lost approximately 
£30,000 and that SW should reimburse this immediately.
- He didnt think that advice was needed where a pension fund was worth less than 
£30,000. Or that it applied to PTFC sums. 
SW issued its first final response to the complaint on 13 December 2021. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It said it was entitled to choose what options it offered its customers 
on a non-advised basis, and which ones it would only offer on an advised basis. It said that 
the decision on what options must be transacted via an advisor was based on protecting 
customers. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S made the following points in March 2022:
- He said SW had told him that if he transferred his pension to another provider, he 
would lose the benefit of the PTFC. He said SW had never told him hed need to get 
expensive financial advice before he could take the PTFC. And that as the cost of the 
advice hed need was greater than the benefit of the PTFC, hed been encouraged to 
stay with SW on the basis of an inaccurate claim. He felt hed been misled and that 
he couldve missed out on greater returns and lower costs from other providers. 
- He felt that although there was no legal requirement for advice in his situation. SW 
had told him that there was. This was misleading, as the requirement for advice was 
an internal SW requirement. 
- Mr S didnt agree with some of the points in SWs first final response letter. He felt 
that the response didnt reflect what hed told SW, or what he wanted to do.
- He also felt it wasnt appropriate to require advice for the PTFC as he felt that it was 
obvious that taking the maximum tax-free sum was in his best interests, therefore he 
didnt need the protection the advice was intended to provide. He felt that SWs 
internal policy requirements were in breach of the requirement to structure their 
pension policy procedures with the customers needs in mind. 
- He said that when his previous employer had transferred responsibility for his 
pension to SW, it was specified in the s32 buyout contract that SW would maintain 
the pre-existing benefits. And that SW had made a contractual obligation to do so. He 
felt that by subsequently adding a requirement for financial advice, SW had 
effectively removed his PTFC benefit. And therefore was in breach of its contract. 
SW issued a second final response letter on 31 March 2022. It still didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It said the requirement for financial advice wouldve been apparent if Mr S 
had made a formal transfer request. SW said that although SW had initially told Mr S, during 
a call on 30 November 2021, that there was a legal requirement for advice, it had clarified 
several times later in the call that it didnt provide the option Mr S wanted without advice. 
SW said that its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had recently decided to 
change its rules. And that those rules now required it to offer investment pathways to 
customers without an adviser. It said Mr Ss product didnt offer investment pathways, so it 
could only comply with his request for the PTFC if he received advice. 
Mr S was unhappy with this response. So he brought his complaint to this service. He felt 
there was no legal or regulatory reason why he was required to get advice to access his 
PTFC payment. And that there was no risk of such an action to either himself or SW, given 
his chosen option would benefit him without risk. He said that if he was forced to get advice, 
it would cost him more than the benefit from the PTFC was worth.
Mr S also said that SW could easily calculate the PTFC amount. And it would also be happy 
to send him the standard amount of TFC of 25% without a requirement for advice. As Mr S felt that the PTFC amount was clearly beneficial to him, he felt it was unreasonable for SW 
to refuse to agree to process the PTFC amount without needing advice. 
To put things right, Mr S wanted SW to let him take his PTFC from his s32 policy without 
advice. 
It should be noted that as part of his investigations, our investigator asked SW if it would 
consider waiving the advice requirement for Mr S. SW told him this wasnt possible as it 
didnt have a non-advised journey that could facilitate this. But it confirmed that Mr S did 
have the option of retaining the PTFC if he bought an annuity with the residual fund.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He said he hadnt found 
evidence that SW had done anything wrong. He was satisfied that SW hadnt treated Mr S 
unfairly. He said SW was permitted to make a commercial decision about its business 
strategy. And he was satisfied with its explanation about why it had chosen not to accept Mr 
Ss request for access to his PTFC without advice. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. He made a number of points, including the following:
- He felt our investigator had only really covered the legality of what SW had done and 
not the fairness. He said it was unfair that SWs needless and unnecessary actions 
would lead to the benefit of his PTFC being completely wiped out. 
- He didnt agree that SW were entitled to take the commercial decision to request 
advice be taken in his circumstances. He felt that in a commercial decision, 
businesses have to balance the needs of customers with their own needs to make 
their proposition attractive to the customer. And if they dont, the customer will go 
elsewhere. But he couldnt go anywhere else as he would automatically lose his 
PTFC. 
- Mr S also felt that his alternative option  to retain his PTFC and to buy an annuity 
with the remaining fund was a dumb decision.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr S. 
Ill explain my reasons for it. 
I agree that there are no legal requirements for advice to be taken in Mr Ss specific 
situation. Instead, legislation requires advice to be taken when a pension is valued over 
£30,000 and it has safeguarded benefits attached. This is not the case here. Mr Ss fund 
was below the value limit and there are no safeguarded benefits. 
Therefore I can understand why Mr S was initially surprised to be told over the phone in 
November 2021 that he needed to take advice. 
SW said that during the call on 30 November 2021, it had said yes when Mr S had asked if 
it was a legal requirement to have financial advice for his chosen option. But that it had then 
clarified several times later on in the call that it didnt provide the option Mr S required 
without advice. Based on everything Ive seen, SW was correct to say that Mr S would need advice in order 
to carry out his wishes. Ill explain why. 
Historically, some SW s32 customers with PTFC had been able to do what Mr S wants to do 
on a non-advised basis and retain their PTFC. SW told this service about two solutions that it 
had previously used to enable some s32 customers to release their PTFC in this way.
However, the Pensions Freedoms reform in 2015 gave customers more complicated choices 
to make about how to invest their pension savings, and when to draw on them. 
In 2016, the FCA launched its Retirement Outcomes Review to investigate how customers 
and providers were responding to the Pensions Freedoms.
As a result, the FCA published further reforms in 2019, to help pension providers deliver 
improved outcomes for non-advised customers. The third of three phases became effective 
in February 2021. Amongst other things, this introduced new investment pathways for non-
advised customers to ensure that, when a consumer such as Mr S was accessing his TFC 
but leaving the remainder of his pension fund invested, he did so in a properly informed 
position as to how his fund was invested, and how this might align with his future objectives. 
SW said that it hadnt been possible to build the investment pathways into either of the 
previous solutions it had used to enable some s32 customers to release their PTFC without 
advice. And that this meant that any customers going through these journeys from 1 
February 2021 on a non-advised basis wouldnt be offered a compliant fund choice, given 
they were required to be offered investment pathways as non-advised drawdown customers. 
So customers in Mr Ss situation would need to get advice if they had residual assets that 
they needed to invest after taking TFC, regardless of whether that was the usual 25% TFC 
lump sum or a PTFC. 
Given this, the only way in which Mr Ss wishes could be accommodated within SW was by 
him obtaining advice, which removes the need for investment pathways to be provided. 
The pensions freedom legislation was enabling, rather than compulsory. So that meant that 
pension providers didnt have to provide the additional options that became available in 2015 
on existing contracts if they didnt want to. SW decided not to provide all the additional 
options on its legacy s32 plans, as did many other providers. This was often because of the 
expense and complexity of updating legacy administration systems that would be needed. 
SW is entitled to set out the basis on which it will do business. So, its not unreasonable for it 
to set conditions for the type of business it is willing to accept, nor is it unusual amongst 
pension providers. Therefore Im satisfied that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for SW to 
require advice in situations like Mr Ss. I say this even where  like in this case  there isnt a 
specific legal requirement for Mr S to take advice. 
I appreciate that this isnt an ideal situation for Mr S, especially as the cost and difficulty of 
accessing the required advice means that the PTFC benefit is effectively lost. And I also 
acknowledge that Mr S doesnt consider that what SW has done here can fairly be described 
as a commercial decision, given he feels he cant move anywhere else without losing his 
PTFC benefit. 
But I cant reasonably say SW has acted unfairly. It has treated all of its policyholders in the 
same position the same. And it has done so for what I consider reasonable reasons. I dont 
consider SW has done anything wrong in taking the commercial decision not to offer 
investment pathways for legacy products like Mr Ss s32 policy.I acknowledge that Mr S considers that SWs decision to require advice would lead to the 
benefit of his PTFC being completely wiped out. But I dont agree. I say this because Mr S 
could still take his PTFC without advice if he bought an annuity with the residual fund, 
although I appreciate that Mr S considers this alternative option is not a good one.
I also acknowledge that Mr S doesnt consider that an investment pathway has to be made 
available under the FCAs Retirement Outcomes Review in this case. He said that Section 
19.10.2 of the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS), concerning Investment 
Pathways, seems to apply only to Stakeholder and Personal Pensions  not s32 Buyout 
policies. But I dont agree. COBS Section 19.10.2 states:
This section applies to an operator of a retail clients personal pension scheme or 
stakeholder pension scheme.
It defines personal pension scheme as follows:
a scheme or arrangement which is not an occupational pension scheme or stakeholder 
pension scheme and which is comprised of one or more instruments or agreements having 
or capable of having effect so as to provide benefits to or in respect of people:
(a) on retirement; or
(b) on having reached a particular age; or
(c)on termination of service in an employment.
Im satisfied that Mr Ss s32 plan meets this definition. It follows that I consider that 
investment pathways do apply.
Mr S understood that SW would be happy to process the standard amount of TFC of 25% 
without advice. So I can see why he questioned why he wouldnt need to take advice if he 
chose to take 25% TFC with drawdown, as he felt that investment pathways had been 
introduced to address concerns about individuals putting their drawdown funds into 
inappropriate assets, and he would be in practically the same situation if he took 25% TFC 
rather that the maximum PTFC. 
As I mentioned earlier, SWs policy is that any s32 customer with a PTFC would need to take 
advice before entering drawdown, regardless of whether they wanted to take a normal TFC 
amount or a PTFC. This is because SW wont allow customers to forego their PTFC to enter 
a drawdown on a non-advised basis. 
I appreciate Mr S doesnt think theres any value for him in taking advice. Hes already 
decided what he wants to do, and doesnt think his choice is a risky one. But I dont consider 
that this is necessarily true, as its not always in a customers interest to take the biggest 
TFC they can take. 
Having considered everything, I dont think SW has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Im 
satisfied it applied its policy correctly without breaching any regulations or legislation. And I 
consider that its policy to obtain advice is in the interest of their customers and offers added 
protection when making an important decision. Therefore I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman