DRN-3252933
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the premium price Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) charged him for his home insurance policy when he changed address.
What happened
Mr C bought a home insurance policy with the insurer, LV. In August 2021 Mr C notified LV 
of his change of address. As a result LV calculated that Mr C would need to pay more for his 
policy. 
Mr C complained to LV. He was very unhappy about the increase. He wanted LV to provide 
a detailed reply justifying the rise in premium  and for it to provide independent verification 
of the amount. He said LV hadnt taken into consideration the stress he was under at the 
time and the impact on his health. Mr C said LV had been dismissive of his calls and emails 
and delayed responding to his requests for information. 
LV didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In August 2021 it explained that it had followed its 
underwriting criteria set at the time and this meant that it deemed the risk to be higher at Mr 
Cs new address. It explained that its underwriting criteria isnt something it is obliged to 
share  but that it includes many factors such as the area, size of house, any risk of flood 
and the claims history in the area. 
LV said it was sorry that Mr C didnt agree with the increase and didnt expect it. But it said it 
had acted correctly in applying the increase. 
Mr C remained unhappy and so he asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator asked LV to provide its underwriting criteria to us  as although it is 
commercially sensitive business information  we can check to see if a customer has been 
treated fairly when LV applied it. 
Having done so, the Investigator was satisfied that LV had correctly applied the increase in 
premium. He explained that our role isnt to decide what an insurer charges. And he 
explained that while Mr C was unhappy with the way his complaint was handled, this isnt a 
regulated activity that we could make a finding on. 
The Investigator understood that Mr C was going through an already stressful time. But he 
didnt think this meant that LV should have charged him a lower premium as a result. 
So the Investigator didnt recommend Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr C didnt agree. He believes LV are unfairly profiteering from his change in address and 
have fabricated the premium increase. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer can decide the risk it wishes to take on and the price it wants to charge for that 
risk. This isnt something we can interfere with as its a commercial decision every insurer 
can make  and it varies from insurer to insurer. This is why we as consumers find such a 
wide range in price on comparison websites when we look for a quote  even though the 
quote is based on the same information we have provided.
We can look at whether an insurer has correctly applied its risk and underwriting criteria so 
that its treated its customer fairly.
As Mr C had changed address, this was a change significant enough for LV to reassess the 
risk under the existing policy Mr C held with it  based on the old address. And LVs policy 
says this is a change Mr C is required to tell it about during the term of the policy. I dont find 
this to be unusual or unreasonable. 
Mr C moved to a new build home. An insurers risk criteria can be commercially sensitive. In 
this case, LV referred Mr Cs complaint to its pricing department to check it had charged him 
the correct premium, which Ive seen. And Im satisfied that LV treated Mr C as it would any 
other customer in the same circumstances when applying the increase. As Ive said, the 
price of insurance can range widely for the same level of cover depending on the insurers 
appetite for risk. An insurer doesnt have to have its criteria independently verified. The price 
they set is their own commercial decision to make in the open market. 
Mr C has raised the point that his renewal premium in February 2022 is lower. But this 
doesnt mean that LV therefore overcharged him for cover in the previous year. LV explained 
that it continually assesses the risk: this has had a positive effect on the premium it quoted to 
Mr C this year. 
I appreciate that Mr C was upset with the increase and he feels LV didnt treat him fairly. But 
from the information available, I find that it did. I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to 
charge Mr C the premium it would have charged any other customer in the same 
circumstances  as this reflected the costs of the risk to LV. Ive seen nothing to show that 
LV fabricated the increase in premium for Mr Cs new address.
Mr C told us hes unhappy with the process LV followed when handling his complaint. This 
service cannot look at all complaints we receive. Some activities are excluded and 
complaints handling is one of them. What I can see is that LV responded promptly to Mr Cs 
complaint  well within the eight weeks timeframe  and Mr C wasnt prevented from 
bringing his complaint to us.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C. But for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman