DRN-2547465
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has not refunded a payment 
she made for the purchase of a mobile phone, even though it was not delivered to her. Shop 
Direct trades under its very brand.  
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs C bought a phone using her very account  a running credit account 
which can be used to buy items from the very website. The day after she placed the order, 
however, Mrs C decided to cancel it. The phone had however already been sent to her, and 
Mrs C says she received a dispatch notification confirming that.
Mrs C says however that the phone never arrived. She assumed that the payment would be 
credited back to her very account, but that did not happen. When she contacted Shop Direct 
to query the position, however, it said the phone had been delivered and so Mrs C was not 
entitled to a refund. 
Mrs C referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. He was not persuaded, however, that any refund was due. Mrs C did not 
accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review them.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained that this service can only consider complaints about certain 
financial businesses and financial activities. He therefore focused on the administration of 
the credit agreement. For the avoidance of any doubt, however, my view is that the handling 
of Mrs Cs credit account included the question of whether she should receive a refund for 
the mobile phone. That in turn requires me to consider whether it was delivered  an issue 
which the investigator did address. 
There is no real dispute that the phone was dispatched. Mrs C received a notification to that 
effect soon after she placed the order. 
I dont believe theres any real dispute either that the item was delivered to someone. It was 
sent by Royal Mail tracked delivery, and the tracking note says it was delivered at 11.04am 
on 5 December 2018. The issue is whether it was delivered correctly to Mrs Cs address. 
The delivery note indicates that the package was signed for by Mrs C. It includes a copy of 
the signature. Mrs C says it is not hers, however. She has provided a copy of her passport, 
and I accept that the signature on that document and the signature on the complaint form 
she submitted with the complaint are very different from that on the delivery note.
In my view, the signature on the delivery note is, however, of limited value in deciding 
whether or not the item was safely delivered to Mrs Cs address. As Ive indicated, it was 
delivered to someone. If it was not delivered to Mrs Cs address, therefore, it must have 
been delivered somewhere else. But it was addressed to Mrs C and included the correct 
address. 
I cannot rule out the possibility, of course, that the package was incorrectly delivered. That 
would mean, however, that Royal Mail made an error and that the recipient was prepared to 
pretend to be Mrs C, sign for the parcel and then keep it. On balance, I think it more likely 
that the item was correctly delivered. For that reason, I dont believe there is any reason to 
require Shop Direct to make any adjustments to Mrs Cs account. 
I dont suggest that Mrs C is being dishonest here. I note that she has referred to later 
transactions and suggested there may have been a mistake. Those later transactions were 
made after the mobile phone had been delivered, however, so do not explain what 
happened here.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 
13 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman