DRN-3292857
The complaint
Mr O complains that One Sure Insurance Limited mishandled his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to One Sure, I include employees and others insofar as I hold One Sure 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
One Sure acted as an intermediary between Mr O and an insurance company.
Mr O had a commercial vehicle insurance policy for the year from 20 June 2020. The policy 
covered a vehicle which ended in the letter J (I will refer to that as vehicle J). 
In October 2020, Mr O added another vehicle, the registration of which was the same as the 
first vehicle, save that it ended in the letter H. (I will refer to that as vehicle H). 
From about November 2020, One Sure asked Mr O for information including about no-claims 
discount (NCD). One Sure asked Mr O to pay an additional premium charged by the 
insurer because he hadnt provided evidence of NCD.
In about May 2021, Mr O appointed another broker. In about June 2021,  Mr O complained 
to One Sure. One Sure waived all its administration fees and only asked Mr O to pay the 
additional premium the insurance company had charged for the time on risk  about 
£1,200.00.
By a letter dated 9 August 2021, One Sure told Mr O of his right to bring his complaint to us.
Mr O brought his complaint to us without delay.
In October 2021, Mr O paid the charge for time on cover.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that One 
Sure had done enough to put matters right. He said that One Sure couldnt be held 
responsible for the insurers decision to increase the premium following the removal of any 
NCD.
Mr O disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
We should not uphold terms of business get out clauses.
Numerous times he contacted One Sure to find out what NCD they were missing. 
Their failure to help stopped him from exiting the policy early and getting a better 
price.
He claimed a reduced fee.
He had a claim reference number for the accident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen an email from One Sure to Mr O dated 11 June 2020. I accept Mr Os point that 
this email didnt say anything about NCD.
But the policy schedule dated 19 June 2020 (for vehicle J) included the following:
NCD years earned 1
Ive also seen an email from One Sure to Mr O dated late September 2020 including the 
following:
[vehicle H] is coming up for renewal in October the same day as the goods in transit 
and liability. 
As we mentioned when we renewed the first vehicle  [insurers] offer a multi vehicle 
policy. 
Each vehicle still has its own no claims bonus and a claim in one doesnt effect the 
bonus of the other  But it gets everything under one roof and makes it manageable.
 
The total cost to add the vehicle to the motor insurance is £2685.75.
And the statement of fact and policy schedule dated October 2020 included the following in 
relation to vehicle H:
NCD years earned 2
In any event, I would expect Mr O to have been aware that NCD would reduce his costs of 
insurance.
Under the Insurance Act, Mr O had responsibility for making a fair presentation of risk to the 
insurance company. His responsibility was mentioned in One Sures documents. But I dont 
consider that this was a get-out clause. Rather I consider that Mr O had the responsibility 
for checking and, if necessary, correcting information in the statement of fact.
So I consider that Mr O, rather than One Sure, was responsible for the consequences of 
over-stating his NCD.
In the end, One Sure waived its charges of nearly £300.00 for fees and loss of commission. 
So Mr O paid only the insurers charge for time on risk. That was about £9,900.00 including 
the additional premium of about £1,200.00.
On balance, I accept that One Sure didnt communicate with Mr O as clearly as it shouldve 
done. And Ive thought about Mr Os point that this stopped him from cancelling the policy 
and getting a better price elsewhere. 
I dont consider that the evidence shows that Mr O wanted to cancel the policy. Rather he 
wanted to avoid cancellation. And Mr O has fallen well short of showing that he couldve got 
equivalent cover for less than he ended up paying via One Sure.I note that One Sure waived its charges. Overall I dont conclude that it is fair and 
reasonable to direct One Sure to reimburse or compensate Mr O or to do any more than it 
has already done in response to his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct One Sure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman