DRN-2841575
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) 
under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Ms S experienced problems with her boiler and contacted BG to book an engineer visit. Ms 
S said that she found it difficult to secure an appointment, as there were a few occasions, 
when appointments were missed or had to be rescheduled. Ms S said that there were 
several attempts to try and repair the boiler, but as they were unsuccessful, she was left 
without heating or hot water. 
Ms S said that when the last engineer attended, he caused a hole in the casing of the boiler, 
disassembled the boiler and condemned it. Ms S said that she was told by the engineer that 
the boiler was unrepairable, and she was left without any hot water or heating, during winter. 
Ms S was unhappy about the state that her boiler was left in and that she felt that BG ought 
to have diagnosed the issue with her boiler sooner, rather than sending out various 
engineers to carry out various unsuccessful repairs. So, she raised a complaint to BG.
In its final response, BG accepted that its customer service had been lacking, due to the 
missed and failed appointments. For this, it offered a £250 goodwill gesture. But said that for 
several years it had advised Ms S to change her boiler, which she wouldnt do. It also said 
that the boiler was too dangerous to put back together as there was rust. And it wouldnt 
cover the cost of a replacement boiler.
Ms S wasnt happy by this outcome, as she had had to pay £4,500 + VAT for a new boiler 
and wanted BG to contribute towards its costs. So, she referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered her complaint and didnt uphold it. She accepted that Ms 
S had been inconvenienced by the failed appointments and said that BG should compensate 
Ms S for them. Her view was that the £250 offered was fair, given that Ms S had been 
advised about the need to replace her boiler over the years and that there was no policy 
provision that allowed BG to replace a boiler over seven years old. 
Ms S didnt accept our investigators view. She ultimately said that she accepted that her 
boiler was old. But her complaint was that BG shouldve told her much sooner that her boiler 
was unrepairable and not made so many attempts to repair the boiler, before condemning it. 
She firmly believed that the boiler shouldve been repaired, and this was the reason why she 
sought a contribution towards the cost of her new boiler. So, she asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Ms S, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
The main issues of this complaint are: 
Whether BG should have told Ms S sooner that her boiler was unrepairable.
Whether BG ought to pay towards Ms S replacement boiler. 
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the cover to see what BGs obligations were 
under the policy. Ms S policy provided for unlimited repairs. From the evidence, BG were 
trying to assess and repair the boiler  which accords with its obligations under the policy. 
I understand from the notes that the boiler was over 10 years old and that it wasnt in the 
best of conditions. Ms S accepts that it was old and her independent engineer reports that  
the boiler wasnt in great condition.  But as BGs obligations were to attempt to repair the 
boiler in the first instance, I dont think it was unreasonable for BG to do just that. 
I have looked at whether the number of attempted repairs were justified. From the evidence, 
apart from on one occasion, there were different faults that arose with the boiler over a 
course of a few weeks. So, it wasnt the same fault that recurred on numerous occasions. 
And, I think that as BGs obligation was to carry out a repair, it met that obligation to do that. 
I accept that Ms S experienced on occasion, failed appointments and I think it was right that 
BG compensate for the poor service she suffered. But I dont think it was unreasonable for 
BG to attempt to carry out a repair of the boiler and determine that the boiler was 
unrepairable when it did, as there were so many different faults that the boiler exhibited. 
Ms S would like BG to contribute towards the cost of her replacement boiler, that she said 
cost her £4,500 + VAT to install. I have looked at the terms and conditions of her policy to 
see if in circumstances like this, BG would pay for the replacement boiler. 
The policy allows BG to replace a boiler if it is unable to fix it in certain circumstances. Which 
are: A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and:  Its less than seven years old.  
Or, its between seven and ten years old. So, I am satisfied that under the policy there was 
no provision for BG to replace Ms S boiler given that it was over 10 years old.
Additionally, BG had been advising Ms S to replace her boiler over the years and I havent 
been provided with any evidence from Ms S that is contrary to this. I understand that Ms S 
firmly believed that BG shouldve repaired and not have cordoned off the boiler, and this was 
why it should contribute to the cost of the replacement boiler. But I dont agree, and Ill 
explain why. 
Both BG and Ms S independent engineer who are considered experts, said that the best 
outcome was to replace the boiler. BG said that the boiler required a new part (a chassis), 
which was obsolete and that there had been rust present. 
Ms S independent engineer confirmed that the boiler was not in a good condition and wasnt 
the most reliable model. That it wouldve been difficult to re-assemble the boiler and not a 
job that he wouldve wanted to do. He said that the boiler would have been on a restricted 
parts list, but some of the parts could still have been obtained. Given that both experts have concluded that the boiler wasnt in a good condition and that 
BG said that the chassis was discontinued, I am persuaded that the boiler shouldve been 
replaced. And, I don think that BG ought to contribute to the cost of the replacement boiler. 
Taking all into consideration, I think that BG has dealt with Ms S reasonably and I am 
satisfied that it applied the policy terms fairly. I think that the £250 goodwill gesture offered is 
fair and I understand that this has already been paid. If it has not, I recommend that Ms S 
contact BG to accept this payment as I wont be asking BG to do anything more to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay 
£250 for the trouble and upset it caused and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman