DRN-1692445
Complaint
Mr A says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent him a 
number of high-cost short-term credit loans.                       
Background
This complaint is about an credit open-ended credit facility and twenty-four high-cost short-
term instalment loans that Sunny provided to Mr A between April 2014 and April 2017. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr As complaint and thought he shouldnt have been provided with 
any funds after the eleventh drawdown on the open-ended credit facility in October 2014. 
Sunny didnt agree with our adjudicators assessment. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr A, I think that Sunny should reasonably have seen that Mr A was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner by the time it provided the twelfth drawdown on the facility in October 
2014. 
I say this because by this stage, it ought to have been apparent to Sunny that use of his 
facility suggested that there was no reasonable prospect of him clearing the balance within a 
reasonable period of time. And it also ought to have been apparent from his repayment 
history, which Sunny ought to have been monitoring that Mr A may well have been relying on 
the facility and borrowing further to make his payments. 
Sunny then transitioned Mr A from a facility which its own product literature said shouldnt be 
used for extended periods to a series of instalment loans which had the same effect. Mr A 
then went on to exhibit a borrowing pattern of taking out further loans not too long after 
repaying previous ones. Sunny continued lending to Mr A even when this pattern was 
repeated and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further 
credit was more likely than not unsustainable for him. 
Mr A had to pay interest and charges on credit that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on all products from October 2014 onwards;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges, should they 
have been paid, from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove any adverse information relating to instalment loans 1 to 4 from Mr As credit 
file. The number of loans provided means that all reference to instalment loans 5 to 
24 should be removed from Mr As credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr As complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr A compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman