DRN-3207892
The complaint
Ms H says U K Insurance Limited unfairly increased the premiums for her pet insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Ms H took out pet insurance policy with UKI in 2009. The initial premium was around £190 a 
year. At renewal last year the price had increased to nearly £2000. As that was unaffordable 
Ms H cancelled the policy. Ms H says she accepted the premiums for this sort of policy 
would increase over time but doesnt feel what happened in this case is fair. 
UKI said the policy premiums had been correctly calculated and if Ms H was unhappy with 
the renewal price she was free to move to a different provider (particularly as she hadnt 
made any claims on the policy). 
Our investigator said it was for UKI to decide how much to charge for the insurance it 
provided. But she didnt think it had made clear to Ms H when she took out the policy the 
extent to which the premiums might increase. She thought it likely Ms H would still have 
taken the policy if given clearer information. But she thought shed been caused some 
significant distress when the premiums did increase as the potential for that to happen hadnt 
been made clear from the outset. She thought UKI should pay Ms H £400 to recognise the 
impact of that on her. 
Ms H didnt respond. UKI didnt agree. It said this wasnt a lifetime pet insurance policy and 
hadnt been marketed as such. There was no requirement in 2009 to advise that premiums 
were likely to increase and it wouldnt have known in 2009 what the cost of a policy would be 
many years later. If it had said premiums could rise significantly it might have deterred 
customers from purchasing policies leaving their pet without cover. It reiterated that Ms H 
was free to move if she was unhappy. It didnt agree with the proposed compensation. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought first about whether UKI has correctly calculated the premium increases for 
Ms Hs policy. In doing so Ive taken into account that insurers are entitled to decide how 
much to charge for the insurance cover they provide. Its up to them how much they increase 
their premiums by and its common for the percentages of increase to vary from year to year. 
I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, 
determining or telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. 
So I cant say the cost of Ms Hs policy is too high, she should have been charged less for 
the policy or that she should be charged less in the future (if shed decided to renew). And 
the policy terms do allow UKI to change the premium at renewal. Looking at the information 
UKI has provided Im satisfied its based its decision on the correct information. I havent 
seen evidence to suggest UKI have treated Ms H any differently to how it would have treated 
any other policy holder in the same position. So I dont think UKI has done anything wrong in 
relation to this.
I also appreciate UKI says this isnt lifetime pet insurance and it didnt market it as such. 
Lifetime policies normally provides cover for a set amount each year for as long as the 
insurance policy remains in force. Each time the policy is renewed, the full amount of cover 
becomes available again. This policy is different as it provides a fixed amount of money to 
treat each condition for as long as the money lasts. Cover continues for each condition until 
the maximum amount is reached, as long as the insurance policy remains in force 
and premiums are paid. 
However, I think it does share some key features with a lifetime policy. In particular the 
policy provides ongoing cover (without a time limit) for conditions up to the limit specified in 
it. I think someone would take out a policy like this with the intention of retaining it on a long-
term basis and likely for the lifetime of their pet. So it would be important for a consumer to 
be aware from the outset what the cost implications of that might be.  
UKI says there was no requirement at the time to advise premiums were likely to increase. I 
appreciate the most recent rules as they relate to insurance pricing werent in force at the 
time. But under the rules that were UKI was still required to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the policy. So it should have drawn a customers attention to 
the main provisions of the policy and the significant limitations and exclusions. It would then 
be for that customer to make their own decision as to whether the policy was right for them. 
I appreciate UKI wouldnt have been able to tell Ms H exactly what the cost of her policy 
would be in future years. But as Ive explained its in the nature of these policies that 
someone would expect to keep it for the lifetime of their pet. So Ms H did need to understand 
that the cost of the policy might increase significantly over that period and to the extent it 
could become unaffordable for her. 
I think UKI should have made that clear and I dont think it did. I appreciate the policy terms 
do say we may change any details relating to your policy and premium on each anniversary 
date of the start of your insurance. Your pets medical history and claims history will be taken 
into account. But I havent seen anything to show Ms H was provided with more information 
about this. So she wouldnt have known, for example, the significant nature of premium 
increases for a policy of this type or that theres no limit on how much the costs might 
increase by.Ms H took out pet insurance, so she clearly wanted some type of cover for her pet. And, as 
she chose to take out a policy like this, she had an interest in the greater level of cover it 
provided. Given that I think its likely Ms H would still have gone ahead with a policy like this, 
even if shed known the premium could increase significantly in the future Shes said that 
shed have paid less with a different insurer but I think its unlikely that would have resulted 
in her paying a significantly lower amount as providers that offer this type of insurance tend 
to operate in a similar way.
But I do think the increase in the cost of the policy is likely to have come as a shock to Ms H 
and will have caused her distress. The cost of the policy increased from £190 a year to 
nearly £2000 at renewal last year. I appreciate the first year of the policy was at a discounted 
rate but thats still a very significant increase. And the cost rose particularly sharply over the 
last five years (from around £600 a year to nearly £2000). That meant the policy became 
unaffordable for Ms H and she had to take the difficult decision to let it lapse. 
As UKI has pointed out Ms H hasnt made any claims on the policy. So that wouldnt have 
caused her to think her premiums might increase. And at the last renewal her dog was 12 
years old. So while UKI say she could move to a different provider I think the age of her pet 
is likely to have made it harder for Ms H to find alternative cover. In addition any conditions 
her dog has developed (even if they havent yet led to a claim) are unlikely to be covered by 
a new policy as theyll be classed as pre-existing conditions.  
I think all of that is likely to add to the distress she was caused by the significant and 
unexpected premium increases. And I think the £400 in compensation our investigator 
recommended is a fair way of recognising the impact on Ms H which results from UKI not 
making clear at the outset the extent to which the premium for this policy might increase. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited will need to pay Ms H £400. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman