DRN-3473233
The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund a transaction she says 
she didnt make.
What happened
What Ms H says
English isnt Ms Hs first language. She says that she her conversations with Barclays 
werent clear and so Ive used what Ms H told this service in this section. 
Ms H says that in late March 2021 she received a call from someone who she thought was a 
police officer. She checked the number she was called from and says it matched that of a 
police station. Ms H says the caller knew a lot of personal information about her. He told her 
that her national identification number had been stolen and she needed to pay a £2,000 fine 
or shed be arrested in 45 minutes. Ms H says she gave the caller her card details but says 
she didnt give her mobile banking security information or make a payment herself.
After the call Ms H noticed a £2,000 payment from her account. She spoke to a friend who 
said she might have fallen victim to a scam, so she reported what had happened to Barclays 
and to the police. Ms H is unhappy that Barclays hasnt refunded her or taken steps to 
contact the recipient of her funds. 
What Barclays say
Barclays have held Ms H liable for the disputed transaction. It says there is no evidence that 
Ms Hs account was compromised by a fraudster. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
that the disputed £2,000 payment was made using the same mobile device Ms H had used 
for previous transactions, including a large payment shortly before. And there was no 
explanation for how anyone else could have gained access to Ms Hs phone. In addition to 
this, the IP address used to make the disputed transaction was one used when Ms H made 
previous payments. The investigator felt it was more likely Ms H made the payment.
Ms H didnt agree with the investigator and so her case has been passed to me to consider. 
In summary, she said:
- She didnt authorise the payments and doesnt know the recipient or have any form 
of relationship with her. Neither did she authorise anyone else to make the payment. 
- Barclays didnt attempt to trace the recipient of her funds or to recover them for her. 
Barclays also didnt secure her account. 
- The investigators opinion is based on what Barclays told him rather than the 
evidence available. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Ms H liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised the transaction herself. 
Barclays has provided this service with evidence of the device used to make the payment 
and the IP address it was made from. These details match the device ID and IP address 
used for a transaction made shortly before that Ms H confirms she made (and for other 
transactions Ms H hasnt disputed). The device ID was the one that has been registered to 
Ms Hs account since 2019. The IP address is also one Ms H has used regularly before. 
Ms H has confirmed that nobody else knew her mobile phone passcode and it wasnt written 
down anywhere. Likewise, Ms H has said she hasnt shared her mobile banking security 
details with anyone or written them down. So, on balance, Im persuaded that its more likely 
than not that the payment was made using Ms Hs mobile phone and that Ms H made and 
authorised the £2,000 payment herself. I recognise Ms H strongly disputes this, but there is 
no evidence to support a conclusion that someone else made the payment. 
As Im persuaded Ms H authorised the payment, Barclays can hold her liable for it. 
Ms H has asked to see evidence that the £2,000 payment was made from her mobile. The 
information comes from confidential bank records that I have seen but cannot share. Id like 
to reassure Ms H though that my decision is based on the evidence I have seen and not just 
on what Barclays has told me. 
Should Barclays have prevented the payment?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and
help to prevent, payments that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
In this case I dont consider the payment request was so unusual or out of character that 
Barclays should have identified a risk of fraud and had a conversation with Ms H before 
processing it. I say this because around a week before this payment was made Ms H made 
a genuine faster payment of over £4,800. In the circumstances, I dont consider a payment 
of £2,000 would have stood out to Barclays so there was no reason for Barclays to 
intervene. 
Ms H has asked why Barclays hasnt contacted the recipient of her the funds or tried to 
recover them. Banks follow different processes depending on whether a payment is 
authorised by a customer or not. In this case, Ms H told Barclays that she didnt authorise 
the transaction and so it investigated her complaint as an unauthorised payment. This is 
what Id expect Barclays to do. 
If the payment was authorised by Ms H but she was tricked into making it Barclays would 
treat this as an authorised push payment (APP) scam and would contact the bank that 
received the funds to see if any funds remained. If funds remained Barclays would try to 
recover them. But Ms H says she didnt authorise the payment and so Barclays acted 
reasonably in not following best practice standards for an APP scam which would involve 
contacting the bank that received the funds. I wouldnt expect a bank to take this step unless 
a customer reports that they are the victim of an APP scam. 
Overall, I consider Barclays properly investigated Ms Hs complaint and acted reasonably in 
not refunding her. My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman