DRN-4354628
The complaint
Mr R complains that Fairscore Ltd, trading as Updraft, lent to him irresponsibly when it gave 
him a fixed sum loan agreement which he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr R took out a loan agreement with Updraft for £8,000 in July 2022.
 
Mr R complained to Updraft in November 2022. Mr R said Updraft shouldnt have lent to him 
because he was struggling with other debt, and he had a gambling problem. He said that as 
Updraft had access to his bank statements through open banking that it should have realised 
this and not lent to him. He asked that Updraft write off the loan.
Updraft reviewed Mr Rs complaint and upheld it. It realised that when it reviewed Mr Rs 
bank statements as part of the loan application it didnt identify gambling transactions made 
through a third party. It accepted that if it had done so, it would have realised the loan was 
unaffordable for Mr R.
Updraft agreed to refund all the interest and charges Mr R had paid. It also agreed that he 
wouldnt have to pay any interest on the remaining loan. In addition, it offered Mr R £300 to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience its error had caused Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree with the proposed settlement. He said that Updraft should write off the 
whole of the amount he owes. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Rs complaint but didnt agree that the whole loan sum should 
be written off. Mr R didnt agree with our investigators conclusion, so his case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is not a complaint where I have to decide fault; Updraft has accepted it lent to Mr R 
unaffordably and Mr R agrees with that. So, I dont have to look at what happened when the 
loan was sold. Im only looking at whether Updraft fairly compensated Mr R for what went 
wrong. 
I dont need to set out all of the background, because its contained in correspondence which 
all parties have seen, and as Updraft has accepted it made an error, the only matter left for 
me to decide is whether Updrafts settlement is fair, or whether the circumstances require 
that it does more to compensate Mr R.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. This includes how we would ordinarily seek to ensure a consumer is compensated 
when credit is provided unaffordably. Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr 
Rs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything that both parties have said and provided I have come 
to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain why I have reached this 
decision.
Mr Rs bank statements show that he was gambling excessively at the time he applied for 
the loan. He says that the entire loan went to pay for gambling. However, he told Updraft that 
he intended to use the loan to consolidate other existing borrowing. Mr R says that as 
Updraft had access to his bank statements (which other lenders did not) that Updraft should 
write off the entire amount. 
Our usual approach in cases like this is to direct that interest and charges already paid are 
refunded to the consumer along with 8% statutory interest; that future interest is disapplied; 
that any adverse information as a result of credit is removed from any credit files and that the 
lender works with the consumer to arrange a suitable repayment plan for the outstanding 
amount. 
We may consider whether a loan should be written off in circumstances that indicate there is 
little prospect of a consumer repaying the outstanding amount and that requiring them to do 
so would cause undue financial hardship. Or we may think that a business ought to have 
realised at the time that providing funds to a consumer was so clearly unsustainable that 
there was no realistic prospect of it ever being paid back. 
In Mr Rs case, I havent seen evidence to suggest that the repayment of the base loan 
would cause undue financial hardship. And while Mr R used most of the loan to gamble, he 
did transfer money to other accounts and there was evidence of both winnings from his 
gambling and other non-gambling transactions from which Mr R benefitted.  Updraft didnt 
lend to Mr R knowing that he would spend the money on gambling; it thought that he would 
be consolidating some of his other debt because thats what he told it. 
So, while Updraft didnt make the right decision when it lent to Mr R, I dont think that it would 
be fair to direct Updraft to write off the loan completely. I think Updrafts existing proposal is 
fair. Indeed, it goes beyond this services usual approach as Updraft also offers an additional 
lump sum as a gesture of goodwill, which this service would be unlikely to have directed.
My final decision
Mr decision is that Updrafts proposal to compensate Mr R is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I do not direct that Updraft needs to write off the loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman