DRN-1516970
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) caused delays on a claim under her car 
insurance policy because of poor repairs carried out.
What happened
Mrs S' car was damaged by another vehicle, and she made a claim. She asked UKI  more 
than once if the car could be repaired by the manufacturer's approved garage but was told it 
was going to UKI's approved garage. 
The car was returned two weeks later but the standard of repair was poor and this was 
confirmed by an engineer. A second attempt at repairs by UKI's approved garage didn't 
realise a better outcome and further damage was found. An engineer agreed and Mrs S was 
allowed to use the manufacturer's garage. While some repairs were carried out, there was a 
wait for some parts to complete the job. In all it took almost four months for Mrs S to have 
her vehicle back in its pre-accident condition.
Mrs S is unhappy that her car wasnt correctly repaired the first time, and she had to renew 
her courtesy car hire throughout the claim. She says she found the claim process very 
stressful and inconvenient, and shes had to take time off work throughout. Mrs S says shes 
continued to pay money for her car insurance and the car itself throughout the claim, and the 
courtesy car she received was not of the same standard as her car.
UKI recognised that its approved garage failed to repair the car properly, and that it didnt 
inform Mrs S  she could have used her own garage at the outset. UKI paid Mrs S 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. But Mrs S didnt feel the 
amount offered was reasonable and thought it should be increased.
Our investigator considered the complaint and felt UKI should increase the compensation to 
a total of £450. He said the initial poor repairs resulted in further repairs and even then the 
issue wasn't resolved. But he didn't think UKI should pay anything towards Mrs S' finance 
agreement or refund insurance premiums. 
Mrs S agreed but UKI didn't - it said the car was drivable and Mrs S had use of it at some 
points of the claim. And a courtesy car was provided when Mrs S' car was being repaired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim notification call is clear that Mrs S was asking if the car could be repaired by the 
manufacturers garage. And while UKI didnt specifically say no, its representative was 
ambiguous and should have done more to explain the garage Mrs S wanted to use. The real 
issue though is that UKI's garage presided over patently poor repairs on two occasions, and 
this has led to the delay in getting the car repaired. It went in initially for two weeks and there's nothing to suggest anything other than a satisfactory completion would be achieved 
in this period. At that point Mrs S should have been able to move on from the claim.
UKI acknowledge the approved garage didnt carry out satisfactory repairs on two occasions 
but says it shouldn't be held liable for delays the second garage experienced in getting parts. 
I would tend to agree with UKI here if this was the garage that had the repair job to start with. 
But the reality is that the patently poor job on two occasions understandably left Mrs S in the 
position that she felt she had to try elsewhere. UKI's approved garage had the opportunity to 
put things right but seemingly compounded the already poor repair work.
As a consequence of the poor repairs Mrs S has had to accommodate unnecessary 
engineer inspections and the drop off and return of her vehicle. She says this was frustrating 
and distressing and I accept what she says. Part of the insurer's role is to handle claims 
promptly and that clearly didn't happen. And the breakdown of trust with UKI's approved 
garage led to further delay because Mrs S had to make arrangements elsewhere.
Mrs S didn't enjoy having to drive the courtesy car but UKI kept her mobile with a vehicle 
type detailed in the policy. And the policy doesn't say she would get like for like replacement. 
But I acknowledge that she had to drive this longer than she should have had the repairs 
been done correctly first time. 
I agree with the investigator that UKI shouldn't be required to refund any insurance or 
finance payments. Mrs S' car requires insurance to be kept or used on a road and even 
when it's off-road, should certain damage occur then the policy gives cover. Mrs S was 
always going to be required to meet her finance payments, and so I'm not persuaded in this 
case that UKI should pay towards the finance agreement.
In summary, the inability of UKI's approved garage to carry out satisfactory repairs led to a 
delay of more than three months even allowing for two weeks to carry out the repairs initially. 
Mrs S suffered inconvenience, distress and frustration in having to accommodate various 
meetings and events to get her car properly repaired. UKI must pay compensation to reflect 
this but I'm not satisfied £200 is a fair reflection.  
Putting things right
I am satisfied that total compensation of £450 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
Mrs S suffered as a consequence of UKI's approved garage's failure to repair the car 
satisfactorily.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs S total compensation 
of £450. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman