DRN-2195342
The complaint
Mrs C has raised a complaint that Santander UK Plc was irresponsible in its lending to her 
late mother, Miss H. This complaint is raised by Mrs C on behalf of the estate of Miss H.
What happened
Mrs C has complained that the lending to her late mother between 2011 and 2017 was 
unaffordable. She has noted three loans that were taken out in October 2011, May 2015 and 
July 2017. She says that Miss Hs only income at the time was her pension and that her 
bank account statements show she was prioritising the loan repayments while falling behind 
with other priority bills. She also noted that Miss H was in her overdraft when the 2015 loan 
was provided.
Santander provided a final response letter dated February 2019 that addressed the concerns 
Mrs C had raised about the 2017 loan. It then issued another final response letter in March 
2019 addressing all the lending between 2011 and 2017. It said that before the loans were 
provided, Miss H gave information about her income and expenditure and that credit checks 
took place. It said that Miss H met its affordability criteria and other policy rules and the 
lending was appropriate.
Mrs C didnt accept the response provided by Santander and referred the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he thought the checks 
carried out were adequate and these indicated the loans were affordable.
Mrs C didnt accept our investigators view.
Following further investigation, it was identified that the complaint about the 2011 loan fell 
outside the time limits for referral to this service. Santander didnt consent to this loan being 
included in this assessment and this was explained to Mrs C. It was also explained that 
Mrs C could raise a separate complaint if she wished to challenge the view that the 2011 
loan fell outside of our jurisdiction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision relates to the issues raised about the 2015 and 2017 loans.
Miss H has explained that Mrs Hs only income was from her pension and this was around 
£145 a week in 2018 and she didnt think the loans provided were affordable. 
2015 loan
Miss H entered the 2015 loan having previously entered a loan in 2011. The 2015 loan was 
for an amount of £6,813 of which around £2,800 was used to repay the 2011 loan. The rest 
was additional borrowing noted as being for home improvements. The loan was repayable 
over 60 months with monthly repayments of £154.
The loan was provided following a meeting with Miss H in which verification checks took 
place. While I can see this loan was in part to repay existing borrowing it also provided 
£4,000 of new borrowing repayable over five years. Proportionate checks needed to be 
carried out, specifically regarding Miss Hs income and expenditure to ensure the new 
borrowing was affordable.
Mrs C has noted that Miss H was utilising her overdraft when the loan was provided. I have 
also looked at the bank statements that have been provided. I have considered whether the 
checks carried out before the loan was provided were adequate and whether based on these 
it was reasonable that the loan was considered sustainably affordable. 
Santander has said that Miss H passed its internal affordability checks and I can see that a 
credit check was carried out. This recorded the previous loan and a credit card on which 
Miss H had only utilised less than a quarter of the available funds. So, while I note the 
comments Mrs C has made about Miss Hs finances, I do not find that the credit check 
results raised any concerns that would have meant further checks should have taken place.
The information provided shows that Miss H declared a monthly income of £640. The 
assessment shows that this was pension income. I wouldnt expect a loan to be declined just 
because the source of income was a pension, and I do not find that Santander was wrong to 
accept the monthly figure provided by Miss H.
Miss H provided information about her expenses. She said she owned her house with no 
mortgage, had no dependents and had monthly expenses of £207. This is a very low 
monthly expense amount and I would have expected further questions to have been asked 
to ensure that this figure was accurate. As Miss H was on a low and limited income, any 
miscalculation of her expenses could have had a material impact on the affordability of the 
loan.
Santander hasnt been able to provide further information about the assessment of the 
expenses and has said that the extract of the external expense data for this loan isnt 
available which is unfortunate. However, as Miss Hs previous payments had been 
maintained I do not find that there was anything in Miss Hs borrowing history that suggested 
the loan would be unaffordable.
Overall, there is limited information regarding the checks that were carried out and as I have 
said, I would expect the expenses figure to have been challenged to ensure it was a true 
reflection of Miss Hs monthly outgoings. However, based on the information I have seen, 
specifically considering the loan repayments were lower than the previous loan, I do not find 
I have enough to say that Santander shouldnt have provided this loan.
2017 loan 
Miss H applied for a further loan in 2017. This was for an amount of £10,500. The loan was 
used to repay her 2015 loan (an amount of around £4,650) with the rest being additional 
funds again noted as being for home improvements.
Before this loan was provided, Miss H had maintained her repayments on the previous loan. 
Therefore, I find nothing to suggest that Santander should have been concerned that Miss H 
was experiencing difficulties with her repayments. The monthly repayments due under the 
2017 loan were for a higher amount than required for the 2015 loan. The repayments were 
around £207 a month (previous repayments were £154).Before the loan was provided, income and expenditure information was gathered. Miss H 
recorded an income of £701. Again, I find it reasonable that Santander would rely on this 
information and it was up to Miss H to ensure this was accurate. 
Miss H provided a monthly expenses number of £100. This was half the amount recorded in 
2015, which was already a low number. I think this should have raised questions about the 
accuracy of the number and further checks could have been carried out. Santander has 
provided a copy of expense data from an external data source that provided a higher 
expense amount. This didnt suggest the loan was unaffordable.
Miss Hs bank statements from the time showed that Miss H seemed to have been 
managing her account well and it had been in credit for several months. A credit check was 
carried out which didnt raise any concerns and so, on balance, I do not find I have enough 
to say that this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Overall, while I understand the points Mrs C has raised, Miss H was required to provide 
accurate information when asked about her income and expenses. The checks carried out 
suggested the loans were affordable and the payment history didnt raise concerns. So, 
while the information about the 2015 expenditure checks is limited and I think further checks 
could have taken place, I do not find that I have enough to say the loans shouldnt have 
been provided 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not have enough evidence to uphold this complaint about 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman