DRN-1589641
The complaint
Mr G, on behalf of his company S, complains about Advanced Payment Solutions Limited's 
(trading as Cashplus) failure to follow the correct process when he notified it he had made a 
payment using incorrect details. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr G received an invoice from one of his businesss customers, and made a 
payment of £80 using the details they held on file for this customer. He realised shortly after 
that the invoice he received from this customer had new bank account details and so the 
payment had been made incorrectly. 
Mr G contacted his bank and explained the issue. His bank in turn contacted Cashplus. 
Cashplus said the funds wouldnt be returned, but provided no further reasons or 
explanation. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and considered it should be upheld. She 
noted that Cashplus hadn't provided its file to this service, nor any further information about 
the case or evidence as to why the funds couldn't be returned to S. She took into account 
the procedures set out by Faster Payments which explained that where the sending bank 
finds clear evidence that a genuine mistake was the cause of the money being sent to the 
incorrect account, they will contact the receiving bank to initiate a return of the funds. She 
said that the guidance says that as long as the money hasnt been spent and the recipient 
customer doesnt dispute the claim, the funds will be returned to the sender. The investigator 
noted there was no evidence that the money had been spent or that the customer was 
disputing the claim. So she considered Cashplus ought to have returned the £80 to Mr Gs 
company, S. 
Cashplus continued not to reply to the investigator's enquiries and it didn't provide any 
comments or further evidence in response to the investigator's conclusions. The investigator 
contacted Cashplus multiple times to invite it to provide further information or evidence, or to 
pay S the money she thought it was entitled to. However, despite the investigator sending 
her conclusions to Cashplus in September, no responses were provided or forthcoming.  As 
Cashplus didnt respond to the investigators letter or subsequent chasers, the case was 
passed to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Putting things right
In the absence of any file or evidence from Cashplus  and with no reason to question or 
doubt the consumers evidence on file, Im satisfied this complaint ought to be upheld and the £80 returned to S. The investigator also noted that the procedure set out by Faster 
Payments explains that it should take 20 working days for the payment to be returned. So in 
this case, after the 20 working days passed, S was deprived of the use of these funds. This 
means, in line with our normal approach, Cashplus must pay S 8% per year simple interest 
on this £80 from the 20th working day after Mr G raised the dispute with his own bank, until 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited must 
pay the compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it S has accepted 
this final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman