DRN-3331191
The complaint
Mrs S complains about a decision by Santander UK Plc (Santander) not to uphold a claim 
she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) about a 
faulty oven.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made in part or whole with a credit card, 
as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 
claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
I can understand Mrs Ss frustration here. Ive read her detailed submissions and its clear 
she cooks a lot and needs a reliable appliance. If there was evidence that the cooker wasnt 
performing to the correct standard when it was supplied to Mrs S I would think it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and Id ask Santander to do something about that breach of contract.
There are a few legal hurdles that would need to be navigated before I could say that 
Santander have that responsibility and I dont think Mrs S has been able to overcome those 
hurdles.
The relevant legislation says that if the fault occurs after six months its to be assumed it 
wasnt present when the goods were supplied (the point at which the business is responsible 
for the quality of the goods). The onus is then on the consumer to demonstrate otherwise. 
So, the law puts the onus on Mrs S to demonstrate not only that there is a fault with the 
cooker but also that the fault was present when the cooker was supplied.
Whilst I havent seen a report from the manufacturers visits its clear the manufacturer thinks 
theres nothing wrong with the oven and that during their visit they found it to be operating 
within acceptable tolerance.
Mrs S has explained, amongst other things, that it takes a long time for the oven to reach 
temperature and that temperatures are 15 to 20 degrees out. But without further evidence it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say that was the case or that that sort of variation was out of 
acceptable tolerance.
I can see that our investigator explained that it may be helpful for Mrs S to commission an 
independent engineers report to establish the fault. But as that hasnt been provided I cant 
say that Santander have been unreasonable when rejecting Mrs Ss section 75 claim and Im 
not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman