DRN-3824644
The complaint
Mr M complained about the service he received from TSB Bank plc when he disputed a 
transaction on his account.
What happened
On 1 April 2022, Mr M contacted TSB. He said he hadnt authorised a £29.99 payment which 
had debited his account. The adviser said shed pass this to the investigations team, which 
would decide whether or not it would treat the transaction as fraudulent. Mr M challenged it 
being referred to investigation, and the adviser said it was because Mr M had had quite a lot 
of fraud claims recently. Mr M said that wasnt his problem, and TSB had been letting the 
money go out. Mr M said he wanted to speak to someone higher, and asked for a manager.
Mr M was put through to a manager, but said he wasnt happy with his claim being sent for 
investigation. He said his fraud claims had never had to go to investigations before, and he 
had bills going out. He said he wanted the money back that day. TSBs manager said he 
could raise a complaint but couldnt put Mr M through to the complaints team direct. Mr M 
said hed wait on the phone because hed spoken to complaints before, so the manager was 
lying to him. Mr M told the manager to stop lying and said he was going to wait until he was 
put through. The manager passed Mr M to the operations manager, but Mr M said he 
wanted to speak to the complaints team that day. The manager explained that the 
complaints team only made outgoing calls, but the call handling team could record Mr Ms 
complaint. Mr M repeatedly interrupted, and said hed stay on the line as he was going to 
speak to someone from the complaints team.  The call recording ended.
Mr M rang again later that day, and said he wanted to complaint about the advisers hed 
spoken to previously. He said one of them had burst out laughing.  Mr M rang again later, 
again complaining that TSB was refusing to put him through to the complaints team. The call 
became difficult with Mr M talking loudly over the adviser and insisting on speaking to a 
manager. The call adviser said shed arrange a call back within 24 hours, but Mr M got angry 
and the adviser said shed have to terminate the call.  There were more calls up to 7 April.
On 7 April, TSB issued its final response letter to Mr Ms complaint that the employees had 
been rude and wouldnt let him speak to a manager. TSB didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It 
said that as Mr M had raised several fraud claims in the previous six months, it couldnt issue 
a refund until the claim had been investigated. TSB noted that on 1 April, Mr M had spoken 
to three different employees, including the Floor Manager and Operations Manager.  All had 
offered to raise a complaint and had explained that Mr M couldnt speak directly to Customer 
Relations. The final response letter said that this was the correct information. TSB also said 
that the call recordings showed that it had had to tell Mr M several times that it would 
terminate the call if he didnt let the adviser speak, and the call was eventually terminated. 
TSB said it didnt agree with Mr M that any of the employees had been rude or threatening. 
And Mr M had spoken to the Operations Manager, which wasnt the usual process. TSB also 
said that it had now finished investigating the fraud claim, which had been rejected. It told Mr 
M hed need to speak to the merchant to discuss the payment from his account.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. In the meantime, the merchant 
refunded Mr M with the disputed £29.99 on 25 April. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said she could understand why Mr M 
expected an immediate refund when hed received this with previous claims  but it was 
reasonable that TSB wanted to investigate the claim further before refunding him. She said 
the call recordings showed that the TSB employees hadnt been rude or laughed at Mr M. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied. He said he was certain the investigator hadnt listened to the calls. He 
said if she had done, shed have heard the agent laugh and the way the agent spoke to him. 
The investigator assured Mr M that she had listened to the call recordings, and shed also 
requested more from TSB. As Mr M didnt accept the investigators view, the case was 
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I confirm I have listened to all the call recordings between 1 April and 7 April.
Mr Ms complaint is about not getting an immediate refund for his claim, and about customer 
service. He hasnt complained about TSBs decision not to give him a refund, so I havent 
considered that as part of this decision  and in any case, I can see that the merchant 
refunded him.
Whether TSB should have given Mr M an immediate refund
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and for transactions which took 
place in 2022 the relevant regulations are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In 
general terms, these say that the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that 
account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  
for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be 
termed gross negligence.
So TSB needed to establish whether or not Mr M had authorised the disputed transaction. 
To be able to do this, TSB would have needed its investigation team to look at the available 
information including technical information. So I find that it was fair and reasonable for TSB 
to have decided not to give Mr M an immediate refund as soon as he reported that he hadnt 
authorised the £29.99 transaction. I realise Mr M wouldnt have expected his claim to have 
been investigated, because the previous ones hadnt been. But the fact that TSB had 
previously chosen to refund without a full investigation, didnt mean it had to keep doing so. 
Ive also looked at whether not getting an immediate refund  for example a temporary credit 
while it investigated  caused practical problems for Mr M, who said on one of the phone 
calls that he had bills to pay. But his statements show that his benefit payment credit had 
already gone into his account before the £29.99 debit. The account was in credit until late 
April. So I dont consider that not getting a £29.99 temporary credit while TSB investigated, 
made any difference to whether or not Mr M could pay bills.
Customer service
Mr M complained that TSBs call handlers were rude and laughed at him. With his complaint 
form, he also sent a supporting note from a friend. The friends note said that he was present when Mr M was making the call. It says that the Operations Manager laughed and in a 
sarcastic way said hed transfer the call to his office as it would be a long call, and then 
sniggered and hung up.
As Ive stated, Ive listened to all the call recordings. The Operations Manager did say that 
hed transfer the call to his office as it would be a long call. But he didnt laugh or snigger, 
and this was not said in any sarcastic way. He remained calm, despite Mr Ms clear 
annoyance. I consider it was entirely reasonable and practical for the Operations Manager  
who, as hed pointed out, didnt usually take customer calls direct  to have transferred the 
call to his office. Then he could have made notes, looked up anything relevant on his 
computer, etc. The call recording did end at this point, but I cant tell which party hung up, or 
whether the call just got lost in the transfer. So I dont find that the Operations Manager did 
anything wrong on the call. 
I dont accept, as Mr M repeatedly said on the calls, that TSB was lying to him. He said hed 
previously spoken to the complaints team direct. I dont have, or need, every call recording 
Mr M and TSB have ever had, just all the ones relevant to this case which took place 
between 1 and 7 April. But I accept that TSBs procedure was that customers first reported 
complaints through its call handling team, and then the complaints team, which didnt receive 
incoming calls, replied. This was a process decision which TSB was entitled to decide for 
itself. And there was a facility for Mr Ms complaint to be heard and recorded, through its call 
handlers. They offered to do so, but Mr M refused. I dont find that Mr M was disadvantaged 
by TSBs processes, as he was still able to complain.
I recognise that Mr M feels strongly about his complaint. But having listened to all the call 
recordings, I find that all TSB call handlers on these calls, handled the situation with calm 
politeness. Mr M became very loud, and interrupted, and repeatedly insisted that he was 
going to speak direct to the complaints team. All the people Mr M spoke to had offered to put 
forward Mr Ms complaint, and this was perfectly fair and reasonable. I consider that the call 
handlers could have felt very bruised and upset by Mr Ms approach, which was hard for 
them when they were only doing their job. Im surprised that in some instances they didnt 
decide to end the calls much earlier than they did.
So I find that there was nothing in TSBs customer service to show that it didnt treat Mr M 
fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman