DRN-2722447
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC took too long to update its records with her new 
address and to provide her with a passcode to allow her to access her account online. She 
says the price of her investments fell and she wants the bank to compensate her for the loss 
in value.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint and our investigator set out in 
some detail what happened. So, rather than repeating that here, I will focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
Our investigator concluded that Barclays had done enough to compensate Mrs L for the 
mistakes it made.
Mrs L didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
Her husband was in the same situation but Barclays paid him £250 compensation. She 
suffered the same amount of distress but has only been offered £175.

On 20 February 2020, having spoken to Barclays the day before, and following news of 
the Covid-19 pandemic, she and her husband decided they wanted to buy a motorhome 
to enable them to escape our four walls. They couldnt proceed with their planned 
purchase following the rapid decline in the value of their investments which caused Mrs L 
and her husband much distress.
Mrs L never received the passcode she needed to deal with their investments by phone. 
In assessing the compensation due to her, Mrs Ls age, health and circumstances have 
not been taken into account and dont reflect the distress and frustration shes been 
caused.
Whilst her investments have since increased in value, prices of motorhomes have 
increased considerably, so her and her husband still cant realise their plans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I think Barclays 
offer of compensation is fair and reasonable for the following reasons:
Im not persuaded that Mrs L told Barclays she was moving house in December 2016. When 
her husband first contacted Barclays in January 2020, he told the bank it was possible that 
he hadnt given it her new address. In later correspondence, he says that he did write to the 
bank, but Barclays has no record of receiving a change of address notification in 2016 or 
2017 for Mrs L. I think its more likely than not that Mrs L didnt tell Barclays of her change of 
address until 2020. 
Barclays continued to send correspondence to the address it held in its records until it 
received a return of post marked gone away. It then put a marker on Mrs Ls investment 
account and didnt send any further mail. 
Its not clear what prompted Mrs L and her husband to realise in or around January 2020 
that they hadnt been receiving any statements about their investment accounts. But they 
wrote to Barclays on 26 January in an attempt to trace their investments. Barclays replied to 
say that Mrs L should phone and have her telephone passcode ready. Mrs L didnt think she 
had a telephone passcode, so was told she needed to provide paperwork to evidence her 
identity. She says she posted this as instructed, but it wasnt received by the bank. This was 
unfortunate, but I cant conclude the paperwork wasnt received because of something the 
bank did wrong. She was advised to take the paperwork to her local branch instead. 
Mrs L received poor service when she took her identification paperwork to a local branch as 
instructed. The branch did not follow the right procedures, even though her husband told the 
member of staff what was required. The bank branch wrongly arranged for the paperwork to 
be sent to Barclays Smart Investor in the post. And Barclays Smart Investor couldnt update 
Mrs Ls address until it received this.
Mrs L says that Barclays mistakes and delays have caused her a financial loss. As noted 
earlier, she says she and her husband had planned to buy a motor home but  by the time 
she was able to sell her investments - theyd lost value. I am not unsympathetic to the 
position in which Mrs L finds herself  she explains that although the price of her 
investments has somewhat recovered, the price of motorhomes has increased. But I dont 
find that Barclays needs to compensate her for this because:
Mrs L has not sold her investments; so she hasnt lost any money.
Mrs L didnt give any indication that she wanted to sell her shares. During the phone call 
on 19 February 2020, because Mrs L had a phone passcode, she was able to gain 
access to her account and the member of staff said he would update her address so that 
an online passcode could be sent to her. Unfortunately, he didnt realise there was a 
marker on her account which needed to be removed. This wasnt successfully removed 
until 18 March and on the same day the online passcode was sent to her. But whilst she 
couldnt give any dealing instructions online during this period, she must reasonably 
have known that she could give instructions by phone. And it was possible to do this 
even without the phone passcode because she had passed the phone security 
questions. I dont find Mrs L made it clear that she wanted to sell her investments. It was 
unfortunate that the delay by Barclays coincided with a market down-turn. But Mrs L had 
not had access to her investments for three years and, when she first contacted Barclays 
in 2020, she didnt have any intention of selling her investments. Im not persuaded that 
she thought she had to wait for online access to sell her investments.
Mrs L says she still hasnt received a phone passcode. But she was able to provide this 
passcode during the call on 19 February. So she has been in possession of this. She can 
obviously contact Barclays for a new passcode if shes mislaid it.
Barclays has made mistakes here. And Mrs L spent time on the phone trying to sort things 
out and sending emails and letters. It must have been incredibly frustrating for her. But, 
taking everything into account, I think Barclays offer of £175 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. Mrs L says her personal circumstances havent been taken into account at arriving at this compensation figure and that shes received less than her husband, even 
though their circumstances were the same. Ive thought about this carefully and in particular 
the fact that Mrs L had to travel to a branch to present her identification paperwork. But 
I think the distress and inconvenience she was caused is fairly reflected in the amount 
Barclays offered. I think its fair and reasonable that Mrs Ls husband was offered a higher 
sum as hed taken the lead in contacting Barclays by letter and phone on both their 
behalves. And Barclays recognised the frustrations experienced by Mr L during the phone 
calls by increasing its offer of compensation to him. Whilst Mrs L witnessed her husbands 
distress, I agree with the bank that it probably wasnt quite as upsetting and troubling for her. 
Overall, I think £175 is fair and reasonable compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs L £175.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman