DRN-3236414
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy at the interest and charges Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) added to his account over the years  he says it has put him under financial 
hardship.
What happened
Mr R complained to Halifax that when facing financial difficulties, it failed to offer adequate 
support and levied excessive charges on his account. Halifax says all charges were applied 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account and had already refunded him £100 in 
charges.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns and reached the conclusion Halifax 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr R disagreed he wants Halifax to repay all the charges applied to his account. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr R has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Halifax charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr R if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Rs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr R was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr R fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Halifax did treat Mr R unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Rs statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
Halifax ought to have realised Mr R might have been experiencing financial difficulties prior 
to it being notified of this. 
Mr Rs statements show that while Mr R was using his overdraft regularly a healthy salary 
was being paid in which mainly brought his account into credit. There were also regular 
transfers out to another account which brought Mr R back into his overdraft. I accept what Mr 
R says about some of the payments going out of the account were to pay his mortgage and 
loan repayments  but there is nothing in the transactions in themselves that would indicate 
that Mr R was in financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Rs account was being 
used. And I dont think that Halifax treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably and this means that 
Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr R. But I he understands the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman