DRN-3616950
The complaint
Ms S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) asked for payment when she 
asked them to send her past statements.  
What happened
In February 2022 Ms S contacted The Co-op to request paper statements for her credit card 
for April  August 2021. 
The Co-op replied and explained that Ms S would be able to view the last six-months 
statements online, but for any prior to that date, there was a charge of £2.50 per statement, 
with the charge being capped at £10. 
Ms S complained as she felt there shouldnt be a charge for statements that are less than 12 
months old. She asked The Co-op to send her the statements free of charge, and requested 
they opt her back out of paperless statements and only send them by post going forward. 
The Co-op replied and explained that after six months, statements are archived onto a 
different system, and so there are costs involved if they want to get them back, print them 
and post them to a customer. Because of this, they said the charge would remain in place 
and they wouldnt be able to send Ms S her statements for free.
Ms S complained and brought her complaint to our service. She explained that she needed 
the statements in order to put together expense statements for her job. She felt surprised 
that statements were unavailable after such a short space of time, and said that the issue 
had contributed to insomnia and caused anxiety about how she would make ends meet. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and was of the opinion that The Co-op hadnt 
done anything wrong. He explained that as we arent the regulator, we dont have the power 
to ask a business to change their policies or procedures, but what we can do is look into 
whether a business has followed their processes correctly. 
He explained that the terms of Ms Ss account set out that there is a charge for copy 
statements, and because of this, he wouldnt be able to ask them to do anything differently. 
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators view. She explained that she was never told she 
could only view statements for the past six months and said that had she known, she 
wouldnt have opted in for paperless statements as she regularly needs them for the past 12 
months. 
Our investigators view remained the same. He explained to Ms S that as he wasnt sure 
how she switched to paperless statements, he had looked at the processes that would have 
been in place both online and over the telephone. During both processes, he said it was 
explained that paper statements for credit cards would only be available for six months. As 
The charge was also listed in the terms of the account, he felt The Co-op had acted fairly.
Ms S disagreed. She said she applied for paperless statements online but was never told 
that she could only get free access to statements for the past six months. 
Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will explain why. 
Ms S opted in for paperless statements online in October 2021. The Co-op have sent a copy 
of the screen that would be shown if someone were to follow the online process. The screen 
clearly says Opt in to paperless to view your statements from the last six months. The 
statement settings also say that paperless statements can be viewed for up to seven years 
or six months for credit cards. 
While Ms S has said that she was never made aware that she would only be able to access 
statements for the past six months, the screenshots show me two points where this 
information would have been given. So I am satisfied it is more likely than not that Ms S was 
made aware she would only be able to access her credit card statements for the past six 
months. 
I have also looked at the terms and conditions for Ms Ss account, they state: 
13. Statements
13.1 We'll provide you with a statement each month if you owe us anything or your balance 
has changed. You can ask us for a copy statement at any time (we charge for this). 
The terms clearly state that there will be a charge for copy statements, and under Other 
charges it states this cost will be £2.50. This, together with the information provided at the 
point Ms S went paperless is enough for me to be satisfied that The Co-op have followed 
their terms correctly. 
I understand that other banks may do things differently, but that doesnt mean The Co-op are 
wrong in what they are doing. Their terms clearly set out that there is a charge for copy 
statements, and as they have acted in line with them Im not able to ask them to change this. 
As our investigator explained, as we arent the regulator, we dont have the power to ask a 
business to change its terms. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is the regulator and 
Ms S would need to raise the issue with them if she felt the terms should be changed. 
Overall, I cant say that The Co-op have done anything wrong here. Their terms are clear in 
that statements for the past six months are available online, but anything prior that will be 
provided at a cost. Because of this, I wont be asking The Co-op to send Ms S her 
statements free of charge. If Ms S would like the statements she has previously asked for, 
she will need to contact The Co-op and pay the fee. 
In relation to Ms S opting out of receiving paperless statements, The Co-op have explained 
that she holds a credit and debit card with them. As Ms S didnt specify what account she 
wanted to cancel the paperless statements for, The Co-op have left the arrangement in 
place. Should Ms S wish to order her statements for a time prior to the last six months, she 
will need to contact The Co-op via secure message. She will also need to specify whether 
she wants to cancel the paperless option on one or both of her cards (if she hasnt done so 
already). I know this isnt the answer Ms S was hoping for, and I acknowledge that this matter has had 
an impact on her health. Im sorry to hear this. But I hope I have explained why Im not able 
to ask The Co-op to do anything differently.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman