Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc hasnt been able to locate funds from a 
passbook account. 
Background
Mr and Mrs P found a passbook which showed a balance of £1,132.54. They contacted 
Santander, but were told the passbook account had been closed some years ago. 
As Mr and Mrs P didnt remember closing the passbook account, they brought a complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. On balance, he thought the 
passbook account had been closed when Santander said it had been.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me 
to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Santanders records show that the passbook account was closed on 11 February 2008. It 
also confirms that Mr and Mrs P opened a current account that day, so it thought it was likely 
the funds from the passbook account had been transferred to the current account. 
Our investigator asked Santander for the opening balance of the current account, to see if 
this matched the figure previously held in the passbook account. Unfortunately, Santander 
no longer has a record of the opening balance. The earliest balance its able to find is from 
2010.  
Whilst its unfortunate that Santander only has limited information about the current account, 
thats not surprising given the time thats passed since it was opened. 
I understand Mr and Mrs P dont remember closing the passbook account, and the passbook 
itself isnt marked as being closed. However, like the investigator, I dont think the passbook 
on its own is enough evidence for me to conclude that Santander still has those funds. Mr 
and Mrs P havent been able to provide any further evidence (such as statements) to show 
the passbook account remained open after 11 February 2008. 
DRN-1309274Given that Santanders records show that the passbook account was closed, and that a 
current account was opened the same day  I think its more likely than not that the funds 
were transferred to the current account, and the passbook account closed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman