DRN-4103402
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank
(M&S Bank) irresponsibly gave her a credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In February 2018 Mrs D applied for a credit card account with M&S Bank. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £2000. The credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mrs D complained to M&S Bank to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that M&S Bank ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. M&S Bank didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 30 March 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
M&S Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Ds complaint is that M&S Bank made credit available that was unaffordable. M&S 
Bank has explained that it relied in part on information that Mrs D provided at the time of 
the application to assess affordability. M&S Bank said they carried out a credit search in 
Mrs Ds name to assess her level of debt at that time and to understand how she had 
been managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, M&S 
Bank decided not to agree any credit initially as M&S Bank referred the case to one of 
their underwriters to assess affordability. So, it seems that M&S Bank were taking Mrs Ds 
affordability seriously at the time it made its lending decision. And the fact that M&S Bank 
passed the decision to an underwriter also reflects that the decision was not a 
straightforward one. With an income and expenditure check completed, a credit limit of 
£2,000 was given.
The income that Mrs D declared was not modest. And the M&S Bank checks showed that 
Mrs D already owed an amount in unsecured borrowings that was a significant amount of 
revolving credit borrowing but it wasnt immodest when compared to the good salary that 
Mrs D declared. 
M&S Bank told us that the credit checks they performed showed that Mrs Ds credit file 
was very clean at the time of the loan application. I have noted the credit file that Mrs D 
provided. It supports the information that M&S Bank said they gathered at the time. The 
credit file contains no information about any immediate history of defaults, CCJs or 
arrears on Mrs Ds credit. So, it seemed from the credit checks that at the point that the 
lending decision was made, Mrs D was affording her existing credit. 
So, I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information that M&S Bank acquired or 
had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to think that 
they were remiss in not checking Mrs Ds expenditure more closely, especially in view of 
the modest credit limit they eventually offered Mrs D.
I say that because M&S Bank put the application through a manual underwriting process 
before offering a credit limit of £2,000. At the point that Mrs D applied for the credit card 
there was nothing from the credit reference agency that made that level of credit 
automatically unreasonable or that would have put M&S Bank off supplying the credit. And 
having considered all the submissions made in this case, I think that was reasonable. 
In this case, I have also noted that the first use of the card was for a balance transfer. The 
card opened on 17 March 2018. On 2 May 2018 Mrs D used the card for the first time to 
complete a balance transfer for £1,000. The credit card had offered a promotional offer of 
0% interest on balance transfers. This was the only use the card was put to in its first two 
years. And the 0% interest that pertained to the balance transfer allowed Mrs D to pay off 
that £1,000 by 11 May 2020.   
So, I dont see the new credit card as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
M&S Bank, adding to an already significant amount of personal borrowing. Instead, it 
looks more likely that Mrs D was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage 
her existing debt by taking out this card and using it to secure more favourable terms to 
existing credit. I say that because Mrs D would have been saving money on interest she 
would have been paying elsewhere. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for 
M&S Bank to have facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, Im not persuaded that what 
M&S Bank could see of Mrs Ds management of her other credit ought to have prompted it 
to have acted differently than it did. Further, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
the credit M&S Bank provided Mrs D was unreasonable. 
I know that Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mrs D to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 14 April 2023. M&S Bank has not acknowledged receiving the 
provisional decision, made any further submission or asked for an extension to do so. Mrs D 
has made a further submission. 
I consider that both parties have had sufficient time to make any further submission, had 
they wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has provided a copy of a credit report. It confirms the information that M&S Bank told 
us they saw from their credit checks at the time of the credit application. The credit report 
shows that before the application for this credit, there was no evidence on the credit report, 
that Mrs D wasnt managing her existing credit well. As such the new submission confirms 
rather than undermines the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
Beyond that, I have received no new evidence to consider. Given that theres no new 
information for me to consider following my provisional decision, and given that the one 
submission confirms the conclusions in my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart 
from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for thinking that this is a 
complaint that should not be upheld, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023. 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman