DRN-4401834
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited has failed to deal with his 
claim under his motor policy following an accident, which wasnt his fault. It also sought to 
increase his premium consequently, which he didnt think was fair.
What happened
Mr R was involved in an accident on 20 July 2022. He said the other driver drove into the 
back of his car causing damage to include damage to the exhaust and possibly the catalytic 
converter. Mr R also said he suffered whiplash. 
Acromas also said that when it contacted Mr R on 22 July 2022 to discuss the accident and 
claim, Mr R said he didnt have time to talk. It said when it tried again to talk to him on 17 
August 2022, Mr R refused to complete the claim form over the phone as he was getting 
legal advice from his solicitor first. Acromas also noted Mr R complained about the lack of 
service he received.
Acromas said it tried to phone him on 25 August 2022 to discuss his complaint but there was 
no answer. So, it wrote to him on 26 August 2022 acknowledging his complaint. And wrote 
again on 13 September 2022 saying it was still looking into it. 
Acromas said it called Mr R on 31 August 2022 to complete the claim, but Mr R said he 
wasnt at home so was not able to take the call. He mentioned the ongoing delays. It was 
arranged that Acromas would call him again the next day. 
Acromas said it discussed the claim with Mr R on 1 September 2022 and it then obtained the 
sketch of the accident scene plus a statement from Mr R. On this call, Acromas said it 
confirmed his car would be deemed a total loss. It said this was due to the damage Mr R 
said was caused and the age of the car. It explained this was something its agents are 
encouraged to look at in order to speed up the claims process. There is a matrix they would 
look at to determine if a car would be deemed a total loss. It said the process was explained 
to Mr R and that he gave details of his account details for when he accepted the offer of the 
total loss value. It said Mr R then mentioned he wanted to retain his car and he also said he 
was aware of the value of his car. It was also discussed that there would be a marker on the 
car, given it was so likely his car wasnt economical to repair.
On 30 September 2022 Acromas wrote to Mr R confirming that it was seeking to hold the 
other driver responsible for causing the accident. It explained it would assist him in 
recovering any policy excess he might have to pay. But as he had no additional legal cover 
on his policy called legal protection, it couldnt help him in recovering any other uninsured 
losses incurred as a result of the accident. It said once it got the admission of liability from 
the other drivers insurers it would be able to reinstate his No Claims Discount.
Acromas said Mr R told it on 5 October 2022 that he didnt want Acromas to collect his car to 
inspect it. Acromas said it then explained he should get his own estimate of the repair costs 
and send it in. And it appeared to arrange a hire/courtesy car as a gesture of goodwill. This 
was at the same time that Acromas sent Mr R an email on the same date asking for a formal 
estimate for the cost of repairs on headed notepaper, which also should include digital 
images of the damage. The email explained its instructed engineers should be able to 
confirm things within 5 working days after receipt of this estimate and photographs. This was 
also confirmed to Mr R in the phone call of 1 September 2022.
Acromas said that as it then didnt hear from Mr R, it wrote to him on 10 November 2022 
explaining it couldnt keep his claim open indefinitely so it needed to hear from him within 14 
days otherwise it would close its file. Mr R called Acromas on the same day where Acromas 
noted Mr R was very upset with the delays and wanted compensation. He also complained 
about the increase in premium. Acromas said the claim would have increased the premium 
because the claim isnt finalised yet. And it was standard insurance practice to note an open 
claim on his insurance record. It also said it would get someone from the repairs team to 
contact him.
On 25 November 2022 Acromas file shows that the other drivers insurers confirmed liability 
for Mr Rs accident was admitted. Acromas told this to Mr R on 14 January 2023 and 
confirmed his No Claims Discount had been reinstated.
Acromas said it contacted Mr R on 31 January 2023 and confirmed it admitted its handling of 
Mr Rs claim was poor to include a lack of communication and it paid Mr R £325 
compensation for this. It confirmed this by its final response letter of 3 February 2023.  Plus, 
it also sent him a hamper earlier in the proceedings by way of apology.
Acromas noted in this call on 31 January 2023 that Mr R wasnt happy he was being told he 
would have to deal with his uninsured losses like his whiplash with the other drivers insurers 
himself because he has no add on legal protection on his policy. He was unhappy he had 
temporary repairs on his car and the promised hire car never materialised.
Mr R said he emailed Acromas on 4 April 2023 saying it was a month or more since he had 
heard from Acromas. He referenced that in response to Acromas asking what he wanted, he 
would accept £1,500 less £100 to retain/keep his vehicle as his make of car were being sold 
for between £1,200 - £1,999. He wanted reimbursement of the cost of his repairs undertaken 
to the exhaust plus the cost of the MOT of £115. He also wanted additional compensation of 
£1,000. And he wanted compensation for the whiplash he suffered of £1,000.  The total 
therefore that he would accept as a settlement was £3,515.
Acromas wrote another final response letter on 17 May 2023 to Mr R in response to his 
complaints made over the phone on 17 February 2023. It didnt uphold his complaint about 
having to recover his uninsured losses himself from the other drivers insurers. It explained 
that since he hadnt chosen the add on legal protection cover on his policy, it couldnt help 
him with these losses. As it couldnt get hold of him to make progress on his claim and now 
sought to write his car off, it needed this estimate from his own repairer which it has asked 
for, to ensure it was right to write off his car. As it never received any such repair estimate 
from him, it couldnt now progress this part of his claim. Likewise, it said as regards the lack 
of the hire/courtesy car, no hire/courtesy car is available when its this clear that the car 
would be written off. This is because Mr R didnt choose the hire car add on his policy either. 
It agreed there was a lack of contact from the claims department and it paid him another £50 
compensation for this.  
During the phone calls Mr R had with the investigator to include with his friend who was 
helping him, he explained he never received any hire car as originally promised as he was 
told there was nothing available. He was told they would call him again but that never 
happened, so he never got a hire/courtesy car.Also, in these call recordings of his calls with the investigator he said Acromas had offered 
him £900  its not clear if this was less the salvage value or not. When asked why he didnt 
accept it, he said he never received a reply to his proposals which he sent to Acromas on 4 
April 2023. 
The investigator issued her view on 11 September 2023. She said that given Acromas had 
no repair invoice and hadnt been able to look at the car, she wasnt upholding his complaint.
Mr R was very distressed by this and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman, 
so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
I do appreciate and understand that Mr R will be very disappointed with my decision. He has 
said several times that his health isnt very good and its very obvious from the call 
recordings how distressing and upsetting he has found his dealings with Acromas to be. 
I also understand, again from the call recordings, that he has very definitive views of what a 
motor insurance policy should cover and that its clear he doesnt understand why Acromas 
isnt dealing with his claim like he thinks it should do. So, I hope my decision will clearly 
explain Acromas duties given the actual terms and conditions of the policy Mr R chose to 
buy. 
This service is also impartial. Our role is look at the evidence provided by both Mr R and 
Acromas and decide if Acromas has adhered fairly and reasonably to its own policy terms 
and conditions and the relevant insurance industry standards in dealing with Mr Rs claim.  
Mr R chose Saga Select cover which renewed on 26 June 2022. Mr R had the option to buy 
additional legal protection but didnt do so. The policy also only provides a guaranteed 
replacement car (hire/courtesy car) if the car is being repaired at one of Acromas approved 
repairers up to the point where the car is declared a total loss. The policy says all this in the 
cover at a glance section.
The policy goes on to detail the following under the Loss and Damage section.
We have the right to choose which action to take in the case of any claim and we will 
do one of the following:
repair the damage; or
replace what is lost or damaged beyond economical repair; or
pay you cash for the amount of the loss or damage.
If we ask, you need to give us any evidence to support your claim. We will confirm 
exactly what we need.
We may decide to appoint an independent assessor to inspect your vehicle to 
support the evidence you provide or to confirm your vehicle has been maintained in a 
roadworthy condition in accordance with General Condition 2a.The most we will pay is the market value of your vehicle, accessories and spare 
parts at the time of the loss or damage, unless covered under Part 4 of the Loss or 
damage section of this policy. If your vehicle is under a hire purchase or leasing 
agreement, we will pay any claim to the legal owner in the event of a total loss.
We will also pay costs we have authorised to:
protect your vehicle and take it to the nearest competent repairer if your vehicle 
cannot be driven because of loss or damage covered by this policy;
deliver your vehicle to your address in the territory following repair.
[Bold type is my emphasis.]
What is crucial here is that Acromas has the right to decide whether to pay for the repair the 
car or not, not necessarily Mr R. Its also Acromas right to declare the car as a total loss or 
not too and again thats not down to Mr R. And very importantly Acromas is perfectly entitled 
to ask Mr R for any evidence it deems fit in support of his claim. These are the rights of 
Acromas, which in law, Mr R consented to by buying this policy. These sorts of rights and 
duties are deemed reasonable and fair and are common in all motor policies.
 
As Mr R didnt want Acromas to take his car away for any assessment of the damage, 
Acromas asked him to get a repair estimate of the accident damage from a repairer of his 
own choice. It wanted the estimate to be on the headed paper of the repairer in order to 
show its legitimacy. The policy terms detail how this operates as follows:
5. Claims outside the Saga Claims Service repairer network You may choose to 
make a claim for loss of or damage to your vehicle under this policy without using the 
Saga Claims Service repairer network (see pages 47 to 49 for details). If so, you will 
need to notify us of the incident and you will not be entitled to any of the benefits of 
this service.
You will need to complete a claim form over the telephone and obtain an estimate for 
repair for our approval. Once approved, whether or not an inspection is required, we 
will authorise repairs subject to any excess that applies. We will pay the cost of 
transporting your vehicle to the nearest competent repairer following an accident.
So, I dont consider Acromas did anything wrong in asking Mr R to get this repair estimate 
given he didnt want Acromas to take his car away for assessment. Thats because its very 
reasonable for an insurer to get some sort of independent verification of the damage done to 
a car in an accident in the absence of not being able to verify that damage itself. As sadly 
otherwise the claims could be inflated, or other damage not caused by the accident might be 
claimed for too. Ive not seen the evidence that Acromas offered Mr R £900 less the salvage 
of £100 as Mr R said but thats not to say Acromas didnt offer that either. But obviously that 
figure would have been confirmed or not once either the repair estimate was received or 
Acromas inspected Mr Rs car.
 
Given that hasnt happened, I also dont think Acromas has done anything wrong in not 
progressing Mr Rs claim for the damage to his car. Acromas itself thinks its likely the car 
will be written off but in order to confirm that fairly, it either needs to see the car itself or have 
a legitimate repairer do so instead. This is solely because Mr R said he wanted to keep his 
car. If Mr R didnt want to keep his car, Acromas would have checked the accident-related 
damage by taking his car away, and most likely (although this isnt an absolute foregone 
conclusion either) confirmed it was uneconomical to repair and it would have paid him the 
market value of his car, less the salvage value if he wanted to keep the car. Or then paid him 
a cash payment in lieu of the repairs. Without Mr R permitting either of those things to happen, he hasnt proved his claim for the 
damage to his car from the accident. And without that proof, Acromas can neither pay Mr R 
the market value of his car, nor the cost of repairs nor indeed ask the other drivers insurers 
to refund its payment to him. Theres no dispute that the accident happened but as yet, 
Acromas has no actual proof beyond what Mr R has said of what the actual damage to his 
car is.
 
Mr R has shown us an email he said he sent to Acromas on 4 April 2023 which detailed out 
what he believed to be a reasonable settlement. I havent seen a copy of that email on 
Acromas file. And I noticed that on the copy Mr R sent us that the recipient on it is 
completely blank so there is no detail or confirmation of who within Acromas Mr R might 
have sent this to. I have however detailed the contents of it above to ensure Acromas is now 
aware of that.  
Just so Mr R is aware also, the motor insurance industry uses valuation guides to assess 
how much a car is worth. And Mr R is correct when he said the price of second-hand cars 
has increased considerably in the past few years, as many of the valuation guides also 
show. However, it is for Acromas to provide the valuation for Mr Rs car not for Mr R to 
simply decide that value himself, without any reference to Acromas and he has done in the 
email he said he sent to Acromas on 4 April 2023. Our approach is that the use of the 
relevant valuation guides, plus where appropriate sales adverts, will tend to show the fair 
value of a car, which isnt of course an exact science. Our website describes our approach to 
car/vehicle valuations in much greater depth. Should Mr R wish to proceed with his claim for 
the damage of his car and should Acromas deem it a total loss, then I am sure Acromas will 
adhere to our very well publicised approach on car valuations too. But without any repair 
estimate from Mr Rs own repairers or without letting Acromas inspect the car, there is no 
duty on Acromas to pay any claim for Mr Rs car. 
Mr R believes Acromas should compensate him for his whiplash injury. However, there is no 
duty on Acromas to do this. This is because its an uninsured loss as in, its not a risk that is 
insured under Mr Rs policy with Acromas. The injury occurred solely due the negligence of 
the other driver. Therefore, in law, it is for the other drivers insurers to consider what if any 
compensation might be payable for any injury Mr R suffered, not Acromas. For the 
avoidance of any doubt the policy does provide personal accident cover, but the type of 
injury Mr R said he suffered in the accident, namely whiplash isnt listed as being covered. 
Acromas detailed this very clearly in its letter to Mr R of 30 September 2022 and it explained 
if he made a claim for the damage to his car, all it would do is seek to recover any excess 
(also an uninsured loss) payable from the other drivers insurers. It also explained what Ive 
just said here that it had no duty to help him with any other uninsured losses like his 
whiplash injury. 
 
In some motor policies to include this one issued by Acromas; the insurer will provide 
separate legal assistance to help someone in Mr Rs position with something like a possible 
whiplash injury to make a claim from the other drivers insurers. But it charges an extra 
premium for this service and Mr R didnt opt to pay that extra premium in taking out this 
policy, so therefore there is no duty for Acromas to help him make his personal injury claim 
to the other drivers insurers. 
As the other drivers insurers have admitted liability for causing the accident, it is therefore 
for Mr R to provide the medical evidence of any injuries or other associated out of pocket 
expenses to the other drivers insurers. Just because Mr R is merely stating he was injured 
is unlikely to be sufficient as they will no doubt need to see medical evidence of the injury 
and evidence of appointments with doctors etc to show how many times he had to see any 
doctor about his injuries too. So, if Mr R wants to pursue any claim for personal injury, he must now contact the other drivers insurers and provide whatever evidence they might 
require.   
 
I note Mr R has now said his car is in storage and is no longer insured. But he has said that 
he was very upset when he realised his insurance premium might increase. He couldnt 
understand why he was going to be penalised when he didnt cause the accident. Thats 
understandable. However, it is permitted by the regulator that insurers are entitled to record 
a claim is open on a policyholders record until the other drivers insurers pay the claim. As 
Mr R said he wanted to make a claim for the damage to his car Acromas did nothing wrong 
in showing on Mr Rs insurance record that he had an open claim. Its also clear Mr R 
continues to want that claim to be paid.
 
Therefore, when such an open claim is on someones record like this, it changes the risk 
profile of the policyholder such as Mr R. And that tends to increase the premium payable. 
Indeed, just being in an accident even when you didnt cause it, can also change the risk 
profile too. However, Mr R said his car is no longer insured, so I havent investigated 
whether any premium increase was fair or not. But again, its not unusual for premiums to 
increase like this following an accident irrespective of who caused it. 
Mr R was also of the view that he should have been provided with a hire/courtesy car, given 
his car was damaged. The policy terms detail how this operates as follows: 
In the cover at a glance section it says: 
Guaranteed replacement car  Well give you a replacement car while yours is being 
repaired after an accident anywhere in the UK, or until its declared a total loss (if you 
use our repairer network).
The policy provides further details this as follows:
6. Replacement car cover
If your vehicle is damaged in circumstances that give rise to a valid claim under Part 
1 of the Loss or damage section of the policy, we will ask our nominated supplier to 
provide you with a replacement car for the duration of the repair.
The replacement car will be provided within one working day of repairs commencing, 
unless you agree an alternative date with us.
If you request a replacement car before repairs start because you believe your 
vehicle is immobile, and if we agree with you, we will arrange for a replacement car 
to be provided within one working day of our agreement.
The car provided will be a small manual transmission hatchback up to 1200cc, such 
as a Ford KA.
Technically that means Mr R would only be entitled to a hire/courtesy car if his car was being 
repaired by one of Acromas own approved repairers, which clearly Mr R didnt want to 
happen as he didnt want Acromas to take his car away. 
Generally, also, no such hire/courtesy car is provided if the car is a total loss. Acromas felt it 
was more than likely Mr Rs car would be a total loss so in those circumstances it had no 
duty to provide any hire/courtesy car. However, I note in Acromas file that it intended to 
provide a hire/courtesy car as a gesture of goodwill. And it set up the order with the hire 
company. Sadly, Mr R said the hire company instructed, told him no car was available right 
at that time. He said the hire car company promised to call him back, but it never did. Then as the matter progressed when it was clear Mr R hadnt provided the repair estimate 
and didnt want Acromas to inspect his car, Acromas never mentioned the provision of the 
hire/courtesy car again. Acromas mentioned a hire car add on in one of its final response 
letters which like the legal protection it appears Mr R didnt pay any extra premium for this 
either. 
However, as no conclusion could be made about whether his car was repairable or a total 
loss, as Acromas was waiting for Mr R to produce the evidence, and it was very clear Mr R 
didnt want one of Acromas approved repairers to look at his car, I think on balance Mr R 
wasnt then entitled to any hire/courtesy car.  
  
Lastly Mr R has complained strenuously that he hasnt received appropriate service from 
Acromas. As Ive explained above, the lack of progress on Mr Rs claim for the damage to 
his car isnt all down to Acromas though, because Acromas has asked Mr R for the 
necessary evidence to proceed with his claim and Mr R is yet to produce that evidence. And 
until he does produce it, I dont consider Acromas has overly delayed in processing his 
claim. 
Acromas has admitted that it ought to have done some things better. It agreed there was a 
lack of support from its claims department; it agreed some call backs were promised but not 
delivered on; it agreed its claims manager didnt phone him when it was agreed they would; 
and it agreed there were significant delays in liability being confirmed. For this Acromas paid 
Mr R the sum of £325 compensation in February 2023. Acromas wrote a second final 
response letter in May 2023 where it paid him another £50 compensation for further delays 
in contacting him by its claims department. So, Mr R has now received a total of £375 
compensation. 
The investigator told Mr R that we had an approach as regards compensation for failings of 
this nature. And its fully detailed on our website too. Effectively this is compensation for 
distress and inconvenience for poor service by the business namely Acromas here. We dont 
provide compensation for an accident like Mr R was involved occurring, as of course 
Acromas or any insurer isnt involved in any accident. We dont provide compensation for 
things that our outside the business control either or if there is delay in something the 
consumer must provide like the repair estimate from a legitimate repairer. We also dont 
seek to punish businesses for making mistakes. Our ethos is to provide compensation for 
the consumers distress for only what the business could have done better. Im pleased 
Acromas acknowledged it could have done things better as I agree it should have provided a 
better customer service and returned calls etc when it said it would do so. I consider the 
amount of £375 it paid to Mr R to be fair compensation and very much in line with our 
approach for what it has done wrong. Therefore, I dont consider Acromas needs to do 
anything more. 
To be clear here, unless or until Mr R provides the repair estimate for his car or now allows 
Acromas to inspect it by some other means, I dont consider Acromas has delayed in 
progressing his claim for the damage to his car as it told Mr R what it required in its call of 1 
September 2022. 
My final decision
So, whilst I do appreciate Mr R will be very disappointed, for these reasons, its my final 
response that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman