DRN-3387427
The complaint
Mr L complains about The Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society Limited, referred to as 
the business. 
Mr Ls unhappy about the level of returns from his investment including any bonus 
payments.  
What happened
In or around July 2011, Mr L invested £25 a month into the Tax Exempt Savings Plan (the 
investment) for a term of 10 years. In July 2021, the investment matured with a value of 
£3,077.64. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The Illustration showed what the potential maturity values would be after 10 years 
and 6 months depending on the annual growth of rates. 
One such example was if the investment grew at 4.0% a year the amount payable 
would be £3270. However, the recent growth hasnt been 4% and that explains why 
Mr L wasnt paid £3270. 
The Illustration also confirmed that:
oThese figures are only examples and are not guaranteed  they are not 
minimum or maximum amounts. What you will get back depends on how your 
investment grows on the tax treatments. You can get back more or less 
than this amount.
The Illustration for a 10-year plan showed that if growth rates grew at 4% a year you 
would get back £3080 which is a little less than what Mr L got back. 
The Key Features Document (KFD) confirmed that the plan aims to provide At least 
the guaranteed amount, with the aim of adding to this amount by way of annual 
bonuses, with a possible additional bonus being paid at maturity. 
The KFD also confirmed: The guarantee is that, subject to scheduled contributions 
being paid when due, at maturity you will not get back less than the guaranteed 
maturity amount which will be at least the sum of contributions.    
The policy schedule confirmed the basic sum assured for a 10-year policy was 
£3000. 
The 4%, 6% and 8% rates are prescribed by the Industry regulator the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Theyre not something the business has chosen to do. 
The bonus rate applied is a matter for the business in the reasonable exercise of its 
legitimate commercial judgement. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
He understands that the investigator cant address the rate of return on the 
investment. 
The business sold the investment on the basis that he would receive a certain 
monetary return dependent on its investment return. But the business has excluded 
any comeback he may have had about the poor return using its small print. 
Until the termination of the plan, he had no idea; what he was likely to receive by way 
of bonuses; that the final bonus would be 0.25%; or that a maturity charge would be 
applied. 
If hed been made aware, at any point other than at the end, hed have considered 
moving his investment.   
Hes not been treated fairly by the business.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr L says, Im not persuaded that 
the business behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ls strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr L, and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely (than not) that the 
investment was taken out on a direct basis. In other words, it was sold without financial 
advice. I note Mr L says he cant recall if he was given advice, but I think its likely that he 
wouldve remembered if he had been advised. 
I think its likely Mr W bought the investment of his own volition, by filling out an application 
form and as a result, Im unable to consider the suitability of it using my inquisitorial remit. I 
believe the onus was on him to make sure it was suitable for his circumstances. That aside, 
for the reasons explained below Im broadly satisfied that the documentation was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Whether or not this was an advised sale, I appreciate Mr L thought that he would receive a 
greater return including bonuses, but I cant say that the business told him this or led him to 
believe that this would be the case. On balance, Im satisfied that the business made reasonably clear what he might receive, based on the annual growth rate, however it gave 
Mr L no guarantees. 
In other words, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr L was given a guarantee by the 
business as to the level of returns he might receive on his investment. The only guarantee 
was in relation to the sum assured  to which annual bouses would be added  but there 
was no guarantee as to what that final figure might be. 
The sum assumed was based on Mr L making the contributions when due and the policy 
schedule confirmed the basic sum assured for a 10-year policy was £3000. The figure Mr L 
referred in his complaint to the business was in relation to the 10-year 6-month plan and at 
4% return so that wouldnt apply to him. 
Based on what the investigator says, I note the Illustration for a 10-year plan showed that if 
growth rates grew at 4% a year you would get back £3080. I understand Mr L received a 
little less than this amount upon surrender.
Im mindful the KFD and Illustration made clear that the figures in relation to the returns and 
bonuses were only examples and werent guaranteed  in other words, they werent 
minimum or maximum amounts that Mr L was guaranteed to receive. So, what Mr L would 
get back above the guaranteed amount depended on the growth of his investment, and the 
bonus amount  dependent on several factors  and was never guaranteed.
I should also point out that our service doesnt generally consider complaints about 
investment performance alone, which can be dependent on a number of factors  such as 
what the stockmarket did for example  which are outside the control of the business. 
Although this was, in the main, what his complaint was about, Mr L now seems to accept this 
to be the case.   
I appreciate the investment didnt do as well as Mr L had hoped, but in the circumstances 
thats not something I can blame the business for. Im mindful that unlike a traditional deposit 
account, the contributions were invested and there are also charges that applied. 
For the reasons set out above, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably. Despite what Mr L says, its not clear if he, 
(until recently) was told that the annual bonus applied to the sum assured. Even if he was  
although on balance I dont believe this to be the case  despite what he now says about 
considering moving his investment  on a balance of probabilities, I think its unlikely that he 
wouldve moved or done things differently because this was a tax efficient savings plan.   
Despite what Mr L says, on balance I dont accept that the business had no intention of 
paying out a bonus as per the policy documentation. In other words, for the reasons set out 
above, I think its unlikely that this was the case. 
Im aware that the business has already answered a lot of Mr Ls questions but that aside I 
note that many answers to his questions were available within the documentation. If Mr L 
didnt read all the documentation at the time or didnt seek clarification, its not something I 
can blame the business for. For exampling, under the heading Jargon buster in respect of 
With profits fund the brochure explained: 
A fund that invests in a balanced mix of investments such as property and stock market 
investments. In good years, we may hold back some of the investment return and use it to 
top up bonuses in years when the fund performs less well. This is called "smoothing".
I also note, with regards to Bonuses the brochure made clear: Annual bonuses and a possible final bonus may be added to the guaranteed maturity 
amount depending on performance of the with profits fund. Once added, these bonuses 
cannot be taken away and will add to the value of the cash payment.
Based on the above, there was no guarantee that a final/terminal bonus would be added to 
the investment.  
I appreciate Mr L will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, I cant ask the business to pay him a larger 
bonus or greater return because it hasnt done anything wrong. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold the claim for 
financial loss compensation and give Mr L what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman