DRN-1193226
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) accepted a third party claim on his 
motor insurance without advising him and his premium increased at renewal as a result. He 
would like compensation and the claim record removed from the insurance database.
What happened
Mr S had a parking accident in August 2018. He says there was no damage to his vehicle 
and very minor damage to the number plate of the other vehicle. He spoke with the other 
party and it was agreed to sort the matter between them without involving their insurers. A 
few days later Mr S met with the other party, who said there was more damage than thought 
and it would be around £200 to fix it, possibly more if parts were needed. Mr S disagreed 
with this and said it might need to go through insurance.
Mr S called Aviva and informed them of the details and that the minor accident was his fault 
and that the other party might be in touch. He said he thought the other party was 
exaggerating the damage to their vehicle. He said he had photographs and would send 
these to Aviva. Mr S didnt hear anything further. But when he shopped around for insurance 
a few months later he was told his premium would increase because of a fault claim under 
the policy with Aviva. He contacted Aviva and raised a complaint.
Aviva accepted the complaint in part. It said it had been contacted by the third party and had 
correctly accepted liability for the accident as Mr S had already confirmed he was at fault. As 
there was a claim it couldnt remove this from the records. However, it agreed it had made a 
mistake in not contacting Mr S to let him know what was happening. Aviva apologised and 
offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience. Mr S rejected this saying his premium 
had increased by £400 and Aviva should pay him the same compensation.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. She didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said Aviva had acted reasonably in respect of settling the claim 
and in providing accurate information about it in records. She said the premium had 
increased because of the claim. She said Aviva accepted it had made an error in not 
informing Mr S the other partys insurer had contacted it. But the £200 compensation offered 
for this was fair. 
Mr S didnt agree, he said Aviva had given the other party £1,200 without advising him or 
giving him chance to respond and his premiums would now be higher for five years as a 
result so Aviva should pay him £400 compensation. As Mr S doesnt agree it has come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint in part. But wont be asking Aviva to do any 
more than they have already offered. I know this will disappoint Mr S, so Ill explain why.
There is no dispute about what happened here. Mr S accepted he was at fault for the 
accident and informed Aviva about it. Aviva has done nothing wrong in recording the details 
of the claim on the insurance database as the information is accurate. A fault claim is very 
likely to result in an increase in the premium charged by all motor insurers going forward. So, 
whilst I can understand why Mr S was annoyed Aviva didnt keep him informed and the 
shock this caused when his premium increased, it wasnt the reason for the premium 
increase itself. 
I think Aviva acted reasonably in dealing with the claim as it needed to do. And Mr S had 
already confirmed he was at fault for the accident. I think Aviva would be unlikely to pay out 
more than it needed to settle the claim. It would have wanted evidence that the third partys 
repair costs were reasonable. So, I dont uphold this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
Aviva accepts it should have informed Mr S when the third party contacted it and has 
apologised for the inconvenience this caused Mr S. I think the £200 compensation offered by 
Aviva if fair and reasonable in respect of this. Aviva has said the offer is still available and I 
wont be asking Aviva to do any more than this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I uphold the complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr S £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman