DRN-2334821
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt helped her recover an overpayment she 
made to someone elses account. 
What happened
Ms M had borrowed £500 from a friend and was due to pay the money back. The friend 
provided her with account details, and she made the payment on 30 July 2019.
Ms M later realised shed made a mistake when sending the money. Shed used the right 
account details but had sent £5,000 instead of £500. She asked her friend to return the 
overpaid money and he agreed to do so. But the money wasnt forthcoming, and Ms M was 
still out of pocket.
Ms M contacted HSBC in December 2019 to ask for help. Her friend had kept promising the 
money, but it still hadnt been paid back. Ms M explained how the money hadnt gone 
directly to her friend, but to someone else he knew.
HSBC looked into things for Ms M but ultimately said it wasnt able to help as the money had 
been sent willingly. It gave its final response in February 2020, explaining the outcome and 
to say it might be able to help Ms M obtain the details of the recipient if she submitted a 
written request.
One of our investigators considered Ms Ms complaint once shed brought it to our service. 
She said the bank hadnt done anything wrong and that it hadnt been able to recover the 
payment. 
She considered whether Ms M might be due a refund under the voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which HSBC is a signatory. But she explained the 
payment didnt qualify as the circumstances of the case made it a civil dispute; Ms M hadnt 
been the victim of a scam.
Ms M still thought the bank could have done more to help and so asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint and for broadly the same reasons as explained by our 
investigator.
The payment was properly authorised by Ms M and she intended to make it. She used the 
correct details and the payment went where it was intended to go. And so, under the terms 
and conditions of her account and the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Ms M is 
responsible for the payment. 
Our investigator rightly explained that the CRM Code doesnt apply in Ms Ms case. Thats 
because Ms M hasnt been the victim of a scam. Thats not to say her friend (or his 
acquaintance) arent acting unfairly, possibly even unlawfully, but Ms M wasnt tricked into 
sending the money. The circumstances dont fit the definition of a scam and its only in 
qualifying scenarios where the CRM Code would apply.
There are separate rules in place to help customers recover money theyve sent incorrectly. 
Some of these rules are set out in the PSRs. Others are broadly known as the credit 
payment recovery process. But these rules only apply when the incorrect details have been 
used: the wrong account number and/or sort code. They dont apply to an incorrect payment 
amount. 
I can see the bank hasnt been clear on what it was doing to help Ms M. Its given the 
impression, over the course of the complaint, that it was in touch with the receiving bank to 
try and recover the money. But that wasnt the case; it appears its never reached out to the 
receiving bank. And its position now is that it has no recourse to recover the payment, 
largely for the reasons Ive set out above. 
Im satisfied what HSBC have said on this point is correct and theres little it could have done 
to recover the money for Ms M. It might have reached out to the receiving bank anyway, 
despite there being no formal channels for such a request. But, even had it done so, Im not 
persuaded the outcome would have been any different. I say as much because Ms M had 
already repeatedly contacted her friend about returning the money and it hadnt happened. 
So it seems unlikely an informal request from the recipients bank would change things. The 
recipient seems to have already made the decision to keep the money. And there was no 
way HSBC could force the return of the money or demand it back for Ms M.
I do think the bank ought to have explained things much more clearly to Ms M. And it ought 
to have done so much earlier. I cant see any good reason why it would take the bank from 
December to February to give her an answer. But as I dont think things would have been 
any different Im not making any award here. 
Its good to see the bank has offered to try and help Ms M obtain the receiving account 
holders details. She should still be able to take the bank up on its offer here, though it will 
require the cooperation of the receiving bank too. HSBC cant make the other bank give over 
the details.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman