DRN-3945562
The complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a finance agreement by Car Shops Limited, trading as Car 
Shop Manchester (who Ill call Car Shops).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest Car 
Shops have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to take any action.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take 
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards; 
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the 
courts. Given that, my role as an ombudsman is not to address every single point that has 
been made. Instead, it is to decide what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of 
this complaint. And for that reason, I am only going to refer to what I think are the most 
salient points. But I have read all of the submissions from both sides in full and I keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made when I set out my final decision.
If Mrs S was told something that was false and if that false statement was a significant 
reason why she entered into the agreement I may think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her.
I understand that Mrs S doesnt think she was given sufficient information for her to be able 
to understand she was entering into a fixed sum loan. Shes explained that she would have 
sold the car earlier if she had understood she was the owner and that shed assumed the car 
was on hire purchase as there was no balloon payment to be made and the payment was 
made directly to the dealership. 
On the other hand, Ive reviewed the telephone pre-contractual explanation document 
provided by the business. A note on that document says a copy must be kept in the deal 
envelope so I think its reasonable to suggest this document is likely to have been the one 
used at the point the finance agreement was sold to Mrs S; although I note its not dated or 
signed. The document is annotated to explain that the loan is a personal loan (and not a hire 
purchase agreement) and correctly explains that Mrs S will own the goods, which wouldnt 
be the case if the agreement was hire purchase.
Ive also reviewed the finance agreement which states it is a fixed sum loan agreement and 
details the payments due and the term over which the payments will be made.
The Pre Contract Credit Information also sets out the key features of the agreement and the 
costs of the credit. 
On balance, I think Mrs S was given sufficient information to enable her to understand that 
she was buying, and not leasing, the car. I dont think I have sufficient information to suggest 
Mrs S was given a false statement of fact or that the agreement was therefore 
misrepresented to her.
Im not therefore persuaded that Car Shops have done anything wrong here and Im not 
asking them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman