DRN-3481341
The complaint
J complains that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited failed to renew her insurance policy 
despite the fact she paid them to do so.
What happened
J had insurance for an empty property through Towergate, and it was renewable every three 
months. In March 2021 Towergate didnt renew it, even though J paid the premium.
When J discovered this, she was very worried about what wouldve happened if shed 
needed to claim. She felt that any losses would be her responsibility and that she wouldnt 
receive any assistance if a claim had to be made.
There was some back and forth between J and Towergate, but they eventually refunded the 
premium for the period concerned and paid her £100 compensation.
J didnt think that was enough, so she brought her complaint to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They said while J had been treated unfairly, 
Towergate had largely done enough to put matters right. However, they said Towergate 
ought to pay interest on the premium for the time J was without that money.
J didnt think that was sufficient either. She said shed already been paid interest at her 
request, and that it was very little in the grand scheme of things. J didnt think Towergate 
wouldnt learn from their mistake unless it cost them a lot more.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint J but I think the outcome she received was fair. While I very much 
appreciate the worry this matter has caused, I wouldnt expect Towergate to pay additional 
compensation for their error.
That is not to in any way diminish the fact that Towergate clearly did something wrong, it is 
just that I think the steps taken to put things right were appropriate.
I acknowledge Js concerns that Towergate wont learn from their mistake unless it costs 
them more money. But Im not here to punish Towergate and there is a requirement within 
the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook (FCA, the regulator) that businesses learn from 
complaints  so Towergate really ought to try to ensure the same thing isnt done again.
Unfortunately though, mistakes will sometimes happen. The important thing is that when 
they do, the business puts matters right. And as I say, I think that was done in this particular 
case. It also seems that once J became aware of the policy not having renewed, she was 
able to purchase a new one  therefore ensuring she was covered from then onwards.
I appreciate J was really worried about the matter and what might have happened if she had 
needed to claim between March and July 2021. But J didnt have to claim during that period 
so I think any worry ought to have been relatively short lived. And therefore the £100 paid to 
compensate J for that  and for the hassle experienced in getting a refund  is appropriate.
In closing, Id like to reassure J that had a claim have been necessary Id have expected 
Towergate to ensure she was treated as if the policy had renewed, so she wasnt left without 
any assistance.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman