DRN-2849433
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Revolut Ltd hasnt fully refunded him for the losses he incurred when he 
fell victim to fraud. 
  
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the full details 
here. The key facts are:
Mr Y received a message purportedly from Revolut asking him for some personal  
details which he provided. A couple of days later he received a call, also purportedly 
from Revolut, to prevent an unauthorised transaction from taking place. During this 
time Mr Y shared details, including his authentication codes. It transpired Revolut had 
not contacted him, and he had been tricked into providing account information by 
fraudsters. Money was moved from his credit card account into his Revolut account 
and subsequently transferred out to a fraudster. Money was also lost from other 
accounts Mr Y held.
Mr Y has told us a total of £6,100 was transferred from his credit card account into 
his Revolut account. A total of £6,322 was then transferred from Revolut to the 
fraudster. Mr Y also told us in his email of 12 December 2020 that he had already 
recovered the £6,100 from his credit card provider and so his net loss was £222. 
Through our service Revolut offered a full refund of £6,322 plus 8% simple interest, 
not realising there had already been chargebacks on the account totaling £3,700. Mr 
Y accepted the offer. Revolut then realised its error and revised its offer to £2,622 
plus 8% simple interest.
Mr Y is unwilling to accept the revised offer as he considers the previous offer made 
to be legally binding.
Our investigator concluded Revolut is only required to refund £222 as Mr Y has 
already been refunded the remainder. 
Mr Y has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman as he still considers the 
original offer to be legally binding. This is despite Revolut standing by its offer to refund 
£2,622 plus 8% simple interest, following the investigators findings. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the findings and arguments above, I would like to reassure 
both parties that I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
There is no dispute that Mr Y fell victim to fraudsters. Revolut has agreed to 
reimburse Mr Y and so I dont need to consider whether Mr Y is entitled to a refund. 
The only matter left for me to decide is the amount that Revolut should reimburse. 
Mr Y has told us that he has already recovered his losses of £6,100 from his credit 
card company and so his net loss is £222  the additional amount transferred from 
his Revolut account. I agree this is Mr Ys net loss  it is the only amount that is yet to 
be refunded to him as a result of the unauthorised transactions. 
Mr Y considers he entered into a legally binding contract when accepting Revoluts 
initial offer of £6,322. However, its my understanding that where there is no meeting 
of minds, or a mistake has been made, a contract isnt considered legally binding. Its 
clear here a mistake was made, as Revolut didnt take into account the chargebacks 
that had already occurred when making its offer. And it isnt clear it was aware Mr Y 
had already received almost a full refund from his card provider. Im therefore not 
persuaded the offer is legally binding as Mr Y argues. 
But even if Im wrong about that, Im only required to take the law in account, Im not 
required to follow it; I can depart from the law if it is fair and reasonable to do so in 
the circumstances of the case. Im satisfied it would be unfair to require Revolut to 
reimburse funds that Mr Y has already had reimbursed by his card provider.  That 
would put him in a much better position than he would have been had the fraud not 
occurred. That isnt our approach to these types of losses and Im not persuaded it 
would be fair here. 
As Mr Ys only outstanding loss yet to be reimbursed is £222, that is the only amount 
I require Revolut to reimburse, with 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
the loss to the date of settlement. To that extent the offer made by Revolut is far 
more generous than what I require it to do. So I leave it to Mr Y to decide whether or 
not, on reflection, hed like to accept it.
For the reasons given, I dont find it fair to ask Revolut to stand by its original offer. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I require Revolut Ltd to reimburse Mr Y £222 and add 8% simple 
interest per annum on that sum from the date of loss to the date of settlement. 
If Mr Y wishes to accept the higher offer made by Revolut Ltd, of £2,622 and 8% simple 
interest per annum, and its still open for acceptance, he will need to contact Revolut directly 
 it does not form part of my award.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman