DRN-3773127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about the advice they received from Fluent Money Limited when 
they took out a second charge mortgage in 2021. They say that they felt pressured into 
borrowing more than they wanted to and that the early repayment charge (ERC) wasnt 
explained properly.
What happened
In the autumn of 2021 Mr and Mrs R decided that they wanted to consolidate some debts 
and sought advice from Fluent. They applied for a loan of £30,899 over a term of 90 months. 
The outcome they wanted to achieve by consolidating debts was to reduce their outgoings 
and give them more disposable income. This increased disposable income would initially be 
used to repay the remaining unsecured debts that werent being consolidated. The term of 
the loan was based on Mr and Mrs Rs budget for the new mortgage. 
The lender declined the application as it didnt pass its affordability criteria. However, it had 
calculated that if the loan was increased to £41,000 over a term of 96 months, allowing more 
of the unsecured debts to be cleared, then its affordability criteria would be met. This was 
put to Mr and Mrs R, and they agreed to the revised arrangements. The mortgage had a 
five-year fixed rate product linked to it, which meant that if the mortgage was repaid within 
the term of that product, an ERC would be payable. 
When Fluent proposed each of the loans to Mr and Mrs R, it provided a recommendation 
letter and an illustration for the loan. The ERC was documented in both the recommendation 
letters given to Mr and Mrs R  it was decreasing over the five years  4.5%, 3.5%, 2.75%, 
1.75% and 0.75%. This was set out in more detail in the mortgage illustrations that were 
provided, including the explanation that the percentage charge was based on the balance at 
the beginning of the mortgage year. The amounts payable (assuming all payments were 
made on time) were detailed for each year, along with the amount of the settlement 
administration fee. In addition, Fluent explained the recommendations orally and how much, 
in terms of a percentage of the balance, the ERC would be, was included in this explanation.
The mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs R following the application for the higher amount 
being accepted also documented the ERC. This confirmed that in the first year the ERC was 
4.5% of the original amount borrowed, which amounted to £2,083.50. From the start of year 
two the ERC reduced to 3.5% of the amount outstanding at the beginning of the mortgage 
year, and annually thereafter.
In 2022 Mr and Mrs R decided to re-mortgage their home. They have told us that the new 
lender required them to consolidate their first and second charge mortgages. They were told 
by the lender how much the ERC would be, which was higher than they recollected it should 
be. They complained to Fluent that the lender was proposing to charge them over £2,000, 
when the ERC detailed in the paperwork they had from the time of the sale was £1,499. 
They said that at no point was the ERC explained to them during the sales process. 
Fluent responded to the complaint in its letter of 22 June 2022. It confirmed that it was 
following the application failing the lenders affordability assessment that the amount of 
borrowing increased, so that more of Mr and Mrs Rs debts were consolidated. This 
assessment had been completed by the lender, not Fluent, and Mr and Mrs R had accepted 
the revised recommendation. In relation to the ERC, it said these were set out in the 
documentation provided for both the applications and it had been explained orally by the 
adviser. As such, Fluent didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept Fluents response and referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
He was satisfied that Mr and Mrs R had been given the relevant information about the ERC. 
He also highlighted that it was the lender that had suggested a higher amount of borrowing, 
not Fluent, which Mr and Mrs R had been able to consider and had agreed to.
Mr and Mrs R asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. They said they were 
given an ultimatum of either taking a loan for £41,000 or not being given any borrowing at all. 
They said that Mr Rs mental health was not taken into account at the time, as he wasnt in 
the right frame of mind to make a decision, and so wasnt treated fairly. In relation to the 
ERC, they said that they spoke to a number of people and were mis-advised in these calls 
and Fluent refused to explain the ERCs to them when asked.
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs R had said, but having listened to the 
conversations had with Mr R at the time, he wasnt persuaded that Fluent pressured them 
into taking the higher loan amount. He was also unable to identify any occasions where Mr R 
had asked for information to be explained and Fluent had refused or that he was laughed at 
by a member of its staff. That said, the investigator did think that some of the conversations 
had not progressed well and acknowledged that this resulted in a new person dealing with 
the application.
Mr and Mrs R didnt comment further on the merits of the complaint and repeated their 
request that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the conversations Mr R had with Fluent before the mortgage was advanced, he 
confirmed that there were no plans to repay the new mortgage being proposed in the near 
future. So it was not unreasonable for a mortgage with an ERC to be recommended in the 
circumstances. I am also satisfied that Mr and Mrs R were told about the existence of the 
ERC, how it would be calculated, i.e. the percentages in the relevant years, and the amount 
it would be in each of those years. While Mr and Mrs R dont recollect there being any 
charges mentioned for the first year, I am satisfied they were told there would be charges 
throughout the five years of the fixed interest rate period.
It is correct that Fluent told Mr and Mrs R that the ERC would be £1,499 in the first year if 
they paid off the mortgage early. However, this was the amount for the original loan 
proposed. When the application was made for the higher amount suggested by the lender, a 
revised, higher, figure was given to them for the ERC in the first year. 
Mr and Mrs R have said they felt pressured by the adviser to borrow more than they had 
originally intended. I am not persuaded this was the case. Fluent simply set out the situation 
in that the application had failed the lenders affordability assessment, but that it had 
calculated if more of Mr and Mrs Rs unsecured debt was consolidated, it would be deemed 
affordable. It was given as an option to Mr and Mrs R. I am not persuaded that there was any pressure placed by Fluent on them to take that option, rather than looking at what 
alternatives might be available to them elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs R have said that Mr Rs mental health situation was not taken into account, and 
he was not in the right frame of mind to make a decision about whether to increase the 
amount of borrowing. They have also said that explanations requested werent provided and 
a member of Fluents staff laughed at him. Fluent has provided this service with 23 call 
recordings from the start of the process all the way through to the end, including ones where 
Mr R expressed dissatisfaction with the process and complained. 
I have listened carefully to all the calls.  Having done so I havent identified any requests for 
explanations that were denied, or Mr R being laughed at. It is clear that he was not happy 
with some of the questions he was being asked and some of the information he was being 
asked for, but I am not persuaded he was dealt with inappropriately. I also note that Mr R 
made it very clear to Fluent when the lender asked whether it could keep details of his 
medical situation on record in line with its vulnerable customer policy, that he should not be 
considered a vulnerable customer. So I cant conclude that Fluent treated him 
inappropriately by not treating him in that way when setting out the options available to him 
and Mrs R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman