DRN-2255857
Complaint
Ms H has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Lending) lent to her 
irresponsibly as it provided her with an unaffordable loan. 
  
Background
Everyday Lending provided Ms H with a loan of £1,500.00 in February 2013. This loan had 
an APR of 198.1% and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£3,185.63 was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of around £187.39
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Everyday Lending unfairly 
provided this loan as its checks ought to have alerted it to the fact that the lending was 
unsustainable for Ms H. Everyday Lending disagreed with our investigator and the case was 
passed to an ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this when deciding Ms Hs 
complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Hs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Ms H would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Ms H wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Ms H would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Everyday Lending provided this loan Ms H with this loan in the period up to the end of March 
2014. During this time it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), 
in order to carry out consumer credit activities. The regulations in place required Everyday 
Lending to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Ms Hs ability to make 
the repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Ms H. In practice this 
meant that Everyday Lending had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Ms H undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Everyday Lendings checks reasonable and proportionate?
Everyday Lending says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Ms H 
prior to providing her with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Everyday Lending 
obtained a payslip from Ms H which confirmed her salary was around £1,633.20. It then 
estimated her living expenses as being 35% of her income and the added an amount to 
account for her existing credit commitments. All of this left her with close to £500 a month 
which was more than enough to cover the payments to this loan. Everyday Lending also 
obtained bank statements from Ms H. Bearing in mind Everyday Lending obtained a significant amount of information on Ms Hs 
circumstances, Im satisfied that it did carry out a proportionate check  at least in terms of 
the information requested  before providing this loan to Ms H.
Did Everyday Lending make a fair lending decision?
It isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to 
lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a proportionate amount of information, 
it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards that consumer 
if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained. 
I say this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to 
repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement, 
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Everyday Lending says its assessment of 
the information obtained led it to conclude that Ms Hs loan was affordable for him as hed be 
able to sustainably make his repayments. 
Ive carefully considered what Everyday Lending has said. But the credit check it carried out 
showed that Ms H had a CCJ for a substantial amount to what appears to be a local 
authority. Furthermore, Ms Hs outstanding payday loans also called into question the 
disposable income arrived at.
Everyday Lending might have expected the payday loans to be cleared. And it might be a 
non-standard lender. But the sheer number of payday loans Ms H had taken (I count loans 
from at least four different lenders) together with the CCJ lead me to believe that this loan 
was simply unsustainable for her and was always going to cause her repayment difficulties. 
As I cant see that Everyday Lending did take this into account, I dont think that it made a 
fair lending decision when it agreed to provide this loan to Ms H.
Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms H in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Everyday Lending acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms H in some 
other way. So I dont think Everyday Lending acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms H in 
some other way.
Did Ms H lose out as a result of Everyday Lending unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Ms H paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what Everyday Lending did 
wrong.
So I think that Everyday Lending needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation - what Everyday Lending needs to do to put things right for Ms H
Having thought about everything, Everyday Lending should put things right for Ms H by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges (including any document fees) Ms H paid 
on this loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Ms H to the date of settlement;removing any adverse information recorded on Ms Hs credit file as a result of 
this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman