DRN-3763569
The complaint
Mr E complains about a debt collection charge (DCC) applied to his account by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. He feels HSBC should compensate him for his distress and financial losses.
What happened
Mr E had a credit card with HSBC which fell into arrears in 2004. The debt, around £15,000, 
was passed to solicitors to collect, and a DCC was applied. HSBC took the matter to court 
and a County Court Judgement (CCJ) was obtained against Mr E in 2005. In 2006, Mr E 
paid a reduced settlement of £9,000, and HSBC agreed not to pursue the balance.
Mr E says a subsequent court case found DCCs had been unlawfully charged. He says 13 
years after it had been applied, the bank admitted the DCC had been misapplied. He 
complained to HSBC seeking compensation for the distress hes suffered over the years and 
the financial loss of losing three well paid jobs due to the CCJ.
HSBC looked into his complaint. It said once the account balance was repaid, other costs 
such as court costs and fees would come next, and the DCC would be the final item repaid. 
It noted that the reduced settlement agreed in 2007 had left a significant balance unpaid  
including the DCC - so Mr E wasnt entitled to any refund as hed not paid it.
HSBC said it had addressed a complaint from Mr E regarding the CCJ in 2005 and had 
given him the opportunity to refer that to our service within six months of its response. It said 
he was now out of time to do so. But it clarified that the CCJ was for the whole amount Mr E 
owed, not just the DCC and solicitors fees. HSBC agreed that some of its customer service 
dealing with Mr Es concerns had fallen short, so it paid him £220 which he accepted.
Mr E was unhappy with HSBCs response about the DCC, so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it. He said there was no dispute that the DCC was 
misapplied so he didnt need to consider that, simply the impact the mistake had on Mr E. He 
agreed with HSBC that as Mr E had paid a reduced settlement, hed not paid the DCC. He 
felt the CCJ would have been registered against Mr E even if the DCC hadnt been 
misapplied. Our investigator didnt feel HSBC needed to do any more than it already had.
HSBC accepted what our investigator said, but Mr E didnt. He said in summary that our 
investigator had incorrectly assumed he couldnt pay the debt. Mr E told us, funds were 
always availableto pay the entire sum due and there would never have been any CCJ if 
HSBC had not tried to seek unlawful costs and charges.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision relates solely to whether compensation is due to Mr E following the 
misapplication of the DCC. I wont comment on whether HSBC correctly obtained the CCJ 
as he complained about that in 2005. In any event, the court decided at the time the CCJ 
should be awarded. Its a higher authority than our service, so I cant question its decision. 
But in order to address Mr Es complaint, I do need to consider how the CCJ came about.
Mr E said he felt that the DCC was unlawful and that he challenged it in court when HSBC 
sought judgement against him. He says the court incorrectly found it was lawful. But in 2019, 
as part of a wider review, HSBC acknowledged the DCC may have been misapplied. I can 
understand Mr Es distress when he heard that news. But I agree with HSBC that Mr E didnt 
pay the DCC as he paid a reduced amount, so I cant fairly conclude hes due a refund.
Mr E has told us  and I dont doubt  that the CCJ caused him a lot of problems over the 
years including a bankruptcy petition being lodged against him, so Ive considered his 
request for compensation. To do so, Ive looked carefully at the evidence each party has 
provided. HSBC has given us system notes which detail discussions with Mr E leading up to 
the CCJ and the debt being settled. Having fallen into arrears in 2004, Mr E told HSBC he 
was in financial difficulty. He attempted to reach agreement for reduced payment terms, but 
these negotiations were ultimately unsuccessful leading to the CCJ being registered.
Given Mr E told HSBC in 2004 he couldnt make the contracted payments, I dont think the 
CCJ came about due to the DCC being misapplied. Its more likely to have been a 
consequence of missed payments. So I cant see that the misapplication of the DCC led to 
the problems Mr E experienced as a result of the CCJ being obtained. 
Furthermore, Mr E has told us that he could have paid the debt at the time if hed wished. He 
didnt do so because he felt the DCC and other charges were unlawful. The charges hadnt 
been deemed unlawful at the time. If Mr E had paid the debt when the court had ordered him 
to do so, he may have avoided a lot of the consequences he faced later and indeed may 
have been due a refund of what hed have paid. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
hold HSBC liable for his decision not to settle the debt and avoid the CCJ.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr E, but I dont think the DCC 
being misapplied led to the CCJ being registered. It follows that I cant reasonably ask HSBC 
to compensate Mr E for the losses he incurred as a result of the CCJ.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman