DRN-2004900
The complaint
Ms C complaints that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (ELIC) wont 
pay the diagnosis and investigation costs of her claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
Ms C had pet insurance provided by ELIC. In April 2019 her dog C required treatment. He 
presented with sneezing fits and bleeding from the nose. Cs vet referred him for further 
investigation and ultimately the problem was found to be dental fistulation. C had an 
operation to treat the problem. 
Ms C made a claim on her policy which ELIC went on to decline. They relied on a part of the 
policy which they say excludes claims relating to dental work. Ms C accepts that the dental 
work itself isnt covered. But she thinks she should be covered for the consultations, 
investigation and treatment until that diagnosis was made. 
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
ELIC had acted fairly in the circumstances and that the claim had been fairly declined. As 
she still disagrees, Ms C has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Ms C, so Ill explain why.
Under the heading of significant or unusual exclusions and limitations (and repeated 
elsewhere in the policy) it says that there is no cover for: Any claim as a result of tooth or 
gum disease. Im satisfied this exclusion has been given sufficient prominence by being 
included in this way and I dont consider it to be inherently unfair. ELIC are setting out that 
claims as a result of tooth or gum disease wont be covered by the policy.
The discharge report from the vet says: A CT scan has identified significant dental disease 
and it is likely the cause of the sneezing and bleeding from the nose was from a tooth 
fistula. Further to this whilst considering the claim / complaint, ELIC emailed the vet and 
asked if in his professional opinion the tooth root fistula was caused by tooth or gum 
disease. The vet responded to say that the fistula was associated with dental disease. 
Taking all of this together, I dont think ELICs decision to apply the policy exclusion was 
unreasonable. They relied on written evidence from the vet and sought further clarity on the 
matter from him when making their decision.
I understand the point Ms C makes in that she would like ELIC to cover some of the 
investigation costs which might have been covered had the underlying issue not been tooth 
disease. And I accept that the symptoms C had wouldnt necessarily be considered to be 
dental in their nature in the first instance. But I also have to consider the terms of her 
insurance policy with ELIC. 
Given the evidence above, I dont think I can fairly say that the claim wasnt as a result of 
tooth disease. And the exclusion is clear that any claim as a result of such isnt covered. I 
appreciate that this wouldnt necessarily have been apparent to Ms C at the time. But that 
doesnt mean that the costs incurred in investigating and diagnosing arent as a result of 
dental disease itself (as the vet concluded). 
Overall, I dont think ELIC have acted outside the terms of the policy or unfairly here. It 
follows that Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman