DRN-3207398
The complaint
Mr N complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to restrict and close his 
account. Mr N wants the money which was left in his account returned to him and 
compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In August 2020, Nat West carried out a review on Mr Ns account. Following the review, 
Nat West decided to end the banking relationship they held with Mr N. They closed his 
account immediately. Mr N had around £130 left in his account at the time Nat West decided 
to close it. Nat West told Mr N he had to visit a branch with certain identification to have the 
money released.
Mr N complained to Nat West. He wanted to know why they had closed his account  he felt 
hed been racially profiled and discriminated against. And Mr N said he didnt have any of the 
identification Nat West asked for. Mr N said the money was from a benefit payment and hes 
facing financial hardship without it.
Nat West didnt tell Mr N the reasons for closing his account and referred him to the terms 
and conditions of the account. They also informed Mr N he could attend branch with as 
much documentation to confirm his identity and the branch manager would decide whether 
they could release the money to Mr N or not. 
Mr N brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Nat West had to do anything differently. He said they were 
entitled to review and close Mr Ns account, and he thought it was reasonable they asked 
Mr N to confirm his identity before releasing the money.
Mr N remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to review things.
I got in touch with Nat West to ask for an update on whether the money in the account has 
since been released to Mr N. Unfortunately, I didnt receive a response. So, I proceeded with 
a provisional decision in November 2021. In it, I said;
The account block and closure
Nat West has important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only relate to when an 
account is opened. To comply with their obligations, Nat West may need to review an 
account and/or restrict access. I can see thats whats happened with Mr Ns account. 
Nat West decided to close Mr Ns account following their review. Im unable to share the full 
reasons of why Nat West took the action they did with Mr Ns account. But Id like to 
reassure Mr N that based on the information and evidence Ive seen, I think Nat West were 
reasonable when deciding to end the relationship. Banks sometimes choose to end their 
relationship with customers - this can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt 
obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr N decided to end the 
agreement with Nat West and use another bank, he wouldnt have to explain why. 
Im satisfied Nat West complied with the terms and conditions when closing Mr Ns account. 
Because of that, I cant uphold Mr Ns complaint on this point. 
Discrimination
Mr N has said he believes Nat West racially profiled him and therefore made a discriminatory 
decision when closing his account. This is a serious allegation for Mr N to make, and one 
Ive thought about carefully. Ive explained above why I consider Nat Wests actions to be fair 
in the circumstances of whats happened. Ive seen nothing to suggest Nat West made their 
decision based on Mr Ns nationality or any other characteristic. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably say Nat West have acted unfairly.
The money left in Mr Ns account
When Nat West responded to Mr Ns complaint, they confirmed the money left in the account 
would be released within 3-5 working days. Nat West have admitted their error with this, as 
the letter also explained that Mr N had to go into branch with at least one copy of formal 
identification to allow Nat West to release the money.
I appreciate it could have been confusing for Mr N to think the money would be automatically 
released, but Im satisfied he was aware of the need to verify himself based on the 
communication and correspondence between him and Nat West.  the crux of Mr Ns 
complaint is getting his money back to him. Therefore, I dont think this makes a difference in 
the overall circumstances of the complaint.
Mr N confirmed to Nat West that he didnt have any of the relevant identification Nat West 
asked for. Nat West agreed that Mr N could go into branch with as much documentation as 
possible to confirm his identity and the branch manager would decide whether they could 
release the money from the account.
I appreciate it would be difficult for Mr N to confirm his identity if he didnt have any of the 
required documentation. But that doesnt mean Nat Wests request is unfair. Nat West has 
provided Mr N with an alternative option, outside of their usual process, to allow Mr N to 
access his money. Im satisfied that this alternative option is feasible and necessary in the 
circumstances. Im not aware if Mr N now has access to his money, but if not, Id urge him to 
visit a Nat West branch with as much documentation as possible which confirms his identity 
to avoid any further delays to himself.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision with any further comments. So, I see no 
reason to depart from these findings.
In summary, I think Nat West acted appropriately when reviewing and subsequently closing 
Mr Ns account. And I think their request for Mr N to confirm his identity before releasing the 
money left in the account is fair. I havent seen any evidence of racial discrimination and 
therefore, its unlikely Ill ask Nat West to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Ombudsman