DRN-3449762
The complaint
Mr H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited only paid part of his 
claim which he made under his contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H took out a contents insurance policy with Red Sands and specified five items of value  
four rings and a Rolex watch. At the time of policy inception Mr H told Red Sands the value 
of the watch was £6,000 which was based on a valuation he had done. 
Mr H says he was mugged and had all his jewellery stolen. Following this he raised a claim 
under his insurance policy. 
Mr H says the claim for the rings was settled without issue. But the claim for his watch was 
declined. Red Sands said Mr H had misrepresented the value of the watch. 
Mr H says Red Sands valued his watch for £18,500 but he disagrees with this valuation. He 
said his watch was initially valued at £6000. But he wasnt satisfied with that valuation and 
so he obtained a further one. This time the valuation was £14,250. But when he was 
updating his policy online he placed the value at £10,000. Mr H says this is because he was 
able to get an equivalent watch for around £10,000
Mr H says he provided Red Sands with evidence to prove the second valuation of £10,000 
but it hasnt accepted it. Mr H says the policy states, like for like or nearest equivalent and 
so Red Sands havent treated him fairly by declining his claim. 
Mr H wants Red Sands to pay him £9778 which is the exact cost for him to obtain the same 
watch. Because of its refusal to do so Mr H complained to Red Sands. 
Red Sands said the valuation dated 7 January 2022 was for £14,250. Mr H amended the 
valuation on his policy from £6,000 to £10,000 on 8 January.  Red Sands said it doesnt offer 
policies for items over the value of £10,000 where a policyholder has no prior insurance 
experience as is the case here. Red Sands said its policy is New for Old and as such had 
an independent assessor value the watch. The valuation was £17,050. 
Red Sands said Mr H attempted to input £14,250 as the valuation for the watch but the 
system wouldnt accept the valuation and so Mr H saw an error message. Red Sands said 
Mr H then reduced the value of the watch to that which would be accepted by its system and 
proceeded on that basis. Which is why the valuation was £10,000. 
Red Sands said given the circumstances it is entitled to avoid the policy in its entirety but 
said in doing so it would have been an unfair outcome for Mr H given the crime committed 
against him.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response from Red Sands and so he referred his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into things and said he thought Red Sands question 
regarding the value of the watch to purchase as new was clear. The investigator said he was 
satisfied the evidence showed Mr H attempted to insure the watch at a higher value but 
when the system wouldnt allow this, he settled on the highest value the website would 
accept - £10,000. The investigator said at this stage he felt Mr H provided Red Sands with 
incorrect information and had effectively made a misrepresentation as defined by the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). And so it was 
reasonable for Red Sands to decline the claim for the watch. 
 
Mr H wasnt happy with the investigators view and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Id like to start by reassuring Mr H that Ive considered all the information he has provided as 
well as his comments. But Ive focussed on whats relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr H has experienced a terrible ordeal and lost a watch which carried great 
sentimental value. So I can see this has been a very stressful experience for him. Mr H feels 
very strongly that Red Sands has treated him unfairly. But in reaching my conclusions Ive 
needed to consider the relevant law which is CIDRA as detailed above.
Value of the watch 
Mr H disagrees with the valuation Red Sands obtained from its own assessor. He says the 
watch was second hand when purchased and the diamond bezel was added later by an 
independent jeweller and not by the watch manufacturer. He says this accounts for the 
difference in valuations between the first and second ones he obtained himself. Mr H was 
aware the initial valuation of the watch was low and so he obtained a second opinion.
When purchasing the policy and indeed when updating it later on Mr H refers to the watch as 
diamond bezel. And so I think its reasonable for Red Sands to have obtained a valuation 
based on the information Mr H had presented. 
Misrepresentation 
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA as detailed above. This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
policy. And if a consumer fails to do this the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying one. For it to be qualifying the insurer has to show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Red Sands thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he updated the value of his watch following the second valuation. 
Ive looked at the question asked by Red Sands when Mr H was updating the details for the 
watch. The relevant page asks for the make, model, and serial number of the watch. It then 
goes on to ask what the cost would be to replace new. Mr H had a valuation for £14,250 and whilst I note he says he didnt think his watch was worth that amount he still took steps 
to increase the value on the policy following the second valuation. 
When asked what the cost of the watch would be to replace as new Mr H didnt input the 
cost of the watch as new. Instead he put in what he says was the cost to replace the watch 
second hand. Im satisfied the question asked by Red Sands was clear and so I think Mr H 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
I will now move on to whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. And what Red 
Sands would have done had they known the correct information. 
Red Sands has provided evidence by way of the relevant underwriting criteria which shows 
that part of the auto decline criteria is a £10,000 limit on single items. So had Red Sands 
been aware of the value of the watch it would not have provided cover for it. And so Im 
satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Red Sands has said Mr Hs misrepresentation was deliberate because he entered several 
different valuations into the form before ultimately selecting £10,000; the highest the policy 
would allow. 
I have looked at what Mr H has said about why he input differing values into the form. I 
empathise with Mr Hs position here and can see why he is frustrated; he perhaps didnt 
appreciate the potential consequences of his actions. But I cant say Red Sands have 
treated him unfairly. 
Taking all of this into account Im satisfied Red Sands acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining the claim for the watch. And its actions are in line with the actions it can take in 
accordance with CIDRA.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman