DRN-4141367
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the funds he lost to a scammer.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr K isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise, unless he failed with intent or gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
To decide whether Mr K authorised the payment, Ive considered the PSRs. Broadly, 
these explain that it depends on whether the payment transaction was authenticated 
correctly and whether he consented to it.
Its clear the payment was properly authenticated. But to be authorised, the PSRs 
also require Mr K to have consented to the payment. They also set out how consent 
is given; this isnt open to interpretation. It must be given in the form, and accordance 
with the procedure, agreed between Mr K and Revolut. Essentially that means Mr K 
would have consented to the payment if he, or someone acting on his behalf, 
completed the agreed steps for making a transaction.
After listing an item for sale on an online marketplace, Mr K was contacted by 
someone who said they wanted to buy it  the scammer. The scammer obtained 
Mr Ks email address from him and sent an email, posing as the online marketplace, 
to let him know there was a buyer for his item. The email included a link for Mr K to 
confirm the deal from where he was prompted to, and proceeded to, enter his card 
number, the card expiry date, and the CVV code. 
Following this, Mr K would have received a push notification in his Revolut app, 
requiring him to provide his passcode before confirming the payment. Revolut says 
the message on the screen would have said Confirm your online payment. It also 
would have stated the merchant the payment was being made to, which was an 
international money transfer company, and the amount of the payment  which I note 
wouldnt have matched the item cost. The chat transcript provided shows that Mr K 
asked So I press confirm? The scammer responded Yes, I will then send the 
confirmation! and Mr K then asked Did it go thru? and Will I get my money back? 
So, given that Mr K completed the agreed steps to make the transaction, under the 
PSRs hed be considered to have consented to the transaction. It also seems 
apparent that Mr K knew he was making an initial payment. 
As Im satisfied that the transaction was authenticated correctly and that Mr K 
consented to it, its considered authorised. I accept that Mr K was tricked into doing 
so, but thats not a consideration under the PSRs in determining whether the 
payments were authorised. And that means the starting position is that Mr K is liable 
for the payments.
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an 
electronic money institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional checks 
before processing a payment to help protect its customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. And this might be where payments are significantly 
unusual or uncharacteristic when compared with the normal use of the account. In 
such circumstances, it might be reasonable to expect Revolut to intervene and ask 
some questions about the intended transaction before processing. 
In this case, Mr K used the account regularly and it wasnt a new account. While the 
payments hed previously made werent quite as high as this one, I dont consider the 
amount to be significantly unusual or uncharacteristic to the extent it should have 
prompted further checks before the payment was made. 
I note other payments were blocked on the same day as the disputed transaction and 
Ive thought carefully about these and whether that impacts any checks Revolut 
should have carried out. But two of these were declined on the basis of the wrong 
CVV code being entered, two were detected as unusual and declined automatically 
by Revoluts systems and there was also a successful payment made which hasnt 
been disputed. So I dont consider these  none of which were made or attempted to 
the same merchant as the disputed payment in question  to make a difference to 
the outcome of this complaint. 
At the time, Revolut wouldnt have known Mr K was falling victim to a scam  
particularly as the payment was made to a legitimate merchant. I dont think there 
was anything Revolut should have identified as being inherently suspicious at the 
time. So I dont think it did anything wrong by not carrying out further checks. 
Ive then thought about whether Revolut could have done more to help Mr K to 
recover the funds once it was made aware of the scam, but I dont think it could have. 
A chargeback wouldnt have been successful here. There are several reasons behind 
this but, crucially, the payment went to a legitimate merchant that carried out the 
service it was required to  sending an international payment. So, I dont think 
Revolut could reasonably have done more to recover the funds. 
Im very sorry about Mr Ks loss and I can see the huge impact this has had on him. But for 
the reasons given above, it wouldnt be fair to hold Revolut liable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman