DRN-2445551
The complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc gave him conflicting information when 
he asked about upgrading his account.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr F went into a branch of NatWest to ask about upgrading his account. He 
says he was told that he would have to apply for the account by telephone, and that he 
would automatically have his overdraft limit increased. But when he made the phone call, he 
was told he could only apply for the account online, and that there would be no automatic 
increase in the overdraft limit. He was also told that the account would have a monthly 
charge, which had not been mentioned in the branch.
Mr F complains that this misinformation (including the fact that he could have applied for a 
limit increase without having to upgrade his account) caused him anxiety and distress, which 
were exacerbated by his autism and mental health issues. He also says that he had to travel 
to access a computer, which was inconvenient. When he complained, his first phone call 
was disconnected, and on the second call he was transferred to the complaints department, 
which was closed. He had to call a third time.
NatWest apologised and paid Mr F £20. Mr F was not satisfied with that, and so he brought 
this complaint to our Service. He asked for £100.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the complaint about how 
NatWest had handled Mr Fs original complaint did not fall within our Services jurisdiction. 
And he thought that £20 was fair compensation for the misinformation. Mr F asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator gave. 
I appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mr F to be told different things by different 
people. However, even if he had been told the correct information in the branch, it would still 
have been necessary for him to travel to use a computer, so not all of his inconvenience was 
the result of being misinformed. So the only real result of what he was told in the branch was 
that he made an unnecessary phone call, in which he was told the correct information. I think 
£20 is fair compensation for that, and is in line with what this Service would typically award.
I agree with the investigator that how NatWest dealt with Mr Fs complaint is not a matter 
I can consider. According to rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority, the remit of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve complaints about the provision of, or failure to 
provide, a financial service. How NatWest handles phone calls about a complaint (albeit a 
complaint about a financial service) is one step removed from that, and so I do not have 
power to consider that aspect.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman