DRN-3024550
The complaint
Mr J complains Metro Bank PLC (Metro) closed his account and added his details to a fraud 
database.
What happened
Mr J received a payment into his account and the money was quickly withdrawn using his 
card. Metro then received a message from the bank the payment came from, that banks 
customer had been the victim of fraud.
Because Mr Js account had received a fraudulent payment Metro blocked Mr Js account. 
Mr J tried to use his card, and it wouldnt work. Mr J called Metro to find out what was wrong.
Metro asked Mr J to explain the payment received into his account. Mr J said he didnt 
recognise the payment. Mr J also said he hadnt withdrawn any money.
Not satisfied with this answer, Metro carried out further checks. Metro then received further 
reports about two other fraudulent payments into Mr Js account. One of these payments 
had already been withdrawn in cash, the other received after Mr Js account was blocked.
Metro took the decision to close Mr Js account and load his details to a fraud database.
A few months later Mr J contacted Metro because other banks had closed his accounts. Mr J 
had contacted the fraud database and been told Metro had added his details. Mr J 
complained this was unfair.
Mr J said he was sent the money by a friend who needed cash and couldnt access it 
through their own account.
Metro responded to Mr Js complaint, explaining it could close Mr Js account in line with its 
terms and conditions. Metro didnt say anything about loading Mr J to a fraud database.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. They felt Mr J had the opportunity 
to tell Metro about his friend and the payment much sooner than he did. And Mr J hadnt 
commented on the other fraudulent payments credited to his account.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators assessment. Mr J said he didnt know the payment 
was fraudulent and wouldnt have allowed it to happen if hed known. 
Mr J said he wasnt thinking straight when Metro called him, and this is why he told Metro he 
didnt know about the money in or out of his account. Mr J said Metro was saying it would 
close his account, so he panicked and said he didnt know about the payment in the hope 
Metro wouldnt close the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro can rely on the sending bank to alert it to fraudulent payments, to show a criminal 
offence has been committed or attempted. But this alone isnt enough to load someone to a 
fraud database. 
Metro also has to be satisfied the person receiving the payment was complicit in the fraud, 
they knew, or should have known, the payment wasnt legitimate.
Im satisfied the payments into Mr Js account originated from fraud. So I have to decide 
whether Metro is fair in saying Mr J knew, or should have known, the payment he received 
wasnt a legitimate payment.
Ive listened to the calls Mr J had with Metro around the time his account was blocked and 
much later when he complained.
Mr J called Metro when his card wasnt working. Metro asked Mr J about the payment in and 
the withdrawals. Mr J says he doesnt know about either. But this denial isnt just once, 
Metro asked the same question six times. And each time Mr J denies knowledge.
Metro only wanted to know about the transaction during this call. At no point in the call does 
Metro say Mr Js account will be closed. Metro didnt make that decision until it had carried 
out a review following that phone call.
When Mr J says he wasnt thinking straight, and denied knowledge of the payment, this 
wasnt because Metro was closing Mr Js account. I think its more likely Mr J denied 
knowledge of the payment because he knew the payment wasnt legitimate.
Mr Js account remained blocked and, following a review, Metro contacted Mr J to say his 
account was closing. Metros terms and conditions allow it to close an account immediately if 
theres been fraud or suspicious activity on an account.
Metro gave Mr J some notice of the closure. I dont think Metro has acted unfairly when it 
closed Mr Js account.
A couple of months after the closure Mr J contacted Metro to find out why he couldnt get his 
mobile banking application to work. When Metro explained this was because Mr Js account 
had been closed Mr J simply thanked the adviser and ended the call.
It was only after other banks began to close Mr Js account, and he found out Metro added 
his details to a fraud database, that Mr J told Metro about his friend sending money to him.
I think Mr J had plenty of opportunity to tell Metro what had happened. And what Mr J now 
says happened sounds entirely innocent, so I dont understand why this wasnt told to Metro 
much earlier.
The explanation only came up after Mr J knew hed been loaded to a fraud database. I cant 
say for definite why Mr J didnt tell Metro about the payment sooner, but I think its because 
Mr J knew he was doing something wrong at the time he received the money.
Ive considered Mr Js age and experience around banking. I think this lack of experience 
would mean Mr J would be more likely to be entirely open with Metro. If Mr J had no idea his 
friend had done something wrong, I think its more likely Mr J would have explained 
everything to Metro when it first asked.And Mr J hasnt explained the other two fraudulent payment to his account.
Ive read the message Mr J sent the investigator, showing Mr J was in contact with the 
sender. But this message doesnt say what the payment was for or show Mr J didnt know 
there was anything wrong with the payment prior to him finding out his details were on a 
fraud database.
I realise Mr J will be inconvenienced because hes on a fraud database. And I understand 
Mr J feels this service is here to help him. I have to decide things impartially, being fair to 
both Mr J and Metro.
So although Ive considered Mr Js inconvenience, and his request for help, I think Mr J was 
aware the payment wasnt legitimate when he agreed to receive it and allow the money to be 
withdrawn.
Because of this I think Metro has been fair in loading Mr Js details to a fraud database and I 
wont be asking it to remove the loading.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman