DRN-2473778
The complaint
Ms S complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank, wont 
refund money that she lost when she fell victim to an investment scam.
  
What happened
Ms S had some savings. In 2018 she was visiting a friend when she saw an advert about 
investments. She expressed her interest in investing. Unbeknownst to her, her friend passed 
on her contact details to a company they had been investing with for about 1.5-2 years.  
So Ms S was surprised when she started to receive calls from an investment company. She 
contacted her friend, who informed her he had passed on her details. She received 
information from the company and prior to investing, she spoke with her friend again, who 
informed her he had been investing a while and found them to be a good company. She 
looked at the company website and noted that it was registered with the Financial Conduct 
Authority. She also conducted research on the business on other social media sites.  She 
then made the following investments via telephone banking:
29 November 2018 £2,000
10 February 2019 £5,000
 
In March/April 2019 Ms S received a further call. She was told the investment company had 
been taken over by another, but it was no longer going to have individual customers, only 
business customers. In order to receive her invested funds she was told shed need to pay 
about 20% of her investment for work already done on her behalf. So Ms S made a further 
payment, also by telephone banking:
3 April 2019 £3,997.60
Ms S received further calls offering a way to avoid paying tax on her investment before 
receiving her funds back (which never materialised). Ms S wasnt interested, and it was the 
continued calls about that which made her realise something wasnt right. She reported the 
matter to Action Fraud who advised her to contact her bank, which she did towards the end 
of July 2019. M&S Bank said it couldnt refund the money. However, it explained it would try 
to recover the funds from the recipient bank, but that wasnt successful. Ms S complained 
but M&S Bank didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that even had M&S Bank 
asked questions about the payments, he doesnt think this would have stopped the 
payments being made, given her friends involvement and reassurance that he had been 
investing for a while and had no problems. 
Ms S has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, she says:
She believes M&S Bank should have done more to protect her. Since then another 
bank has questioned payments that were being made. Although she doesnt 
necessarily think M&S Bank should have refused the transactions, she expects it to 
be more proactive and if it had done even half of what the other bank had, she 
doesnt think she would have gone ahead.  
She tried to explain the transactions disputed to M&S Bank, but they refused to take 
immediate action and wrong information was recorded. She doesnt believe M&S 
Bank took the situation seriously.  
Her friend isnt a friend per se but someone she knows through a teaching group. 
She didnt consent to this person giving her information to the investment company 
and until she started receiving disturbing and aggressive calls, she didnt know her 
details had been passed on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Ms S and M&S Bank that although I have only 
summarised the evidence and arguments made, I have read and considered everything 
provided in its entirety. When deciding this complaint, Ill be focussing on the crux of the 
issue; did anything go wrong when the payments were executed and, if not, did it do enough 
to recover the funds when it was notified of the fraud?
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2107, and in accordance with banking terms and 
conditions, banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into giving that authorisation or it was obtained by third-party fraud. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
The first question I therefore need to consider is whether M&S Bank breached that duty 
when executing Ms Ss payment requests?
There is no dispute that Ms S was duped into authorising payments towards an investment. 
Those payments took place between November 2018 and April 2019 and was made via 
telephone banking. On each occasion Mrs S asked M&S Bank to move money between her 
accounts before making the payments. There is also no dispute that Ms S asked for these 
payments to be made. So I conclude that these were authorised payments  for which Ms S 
is liable unless there is evidence that the bank could and should reasonably have done more 
to protect her, which issue I now turn to. 
The sums paid are not insubstantial and so I have considered whether this ought to have 
triggered the banks alert systems such that it ought to have questioned whether Ms S was 
the victim of a scam and intervened. In December 2017, Ms S transferred £8,500 into the 
account. Of that £3,000 was transferred to another account (which appears to be hers) and 
£4,897 was paid out to a third-party. And in May 2018, Ms S paid in £6,500 and transferred 
£6,600 to another account (the same as the aforementioned). Although some of the 
payments were to other accounts she held, not all of them were. And the payments were for 
higher or similar amounts to those in dispute, that Ms S had not queried  and therefore 
appear legitimate. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded any of the payments were so 
unusual or uncharacteristic that they ought to have triggered an alert or given the bank 
grounds for suspecting fraud. I have considered that during the last payment request M&S Bank did ask what the payment 
was for. Ms S explained this was for a business managing her stocks and shares for her. But 
I dont think there was anything unusual about that, such that it ought to have alerted Ms S to 
fraud. But even if I thought it should have done, Im not persuaded Ms S would have acted 
any differently. 
Ms Ss details were passed on to the investment company by her friend. Although she now 
says he wasnt a friend per se, that is how she referred to him throughout her conversations 
with M&S Bank and with us, until she received the view from the investigator not upholding 
her complaint. I prefer her original testimony about that. But in any event, its clear from her 
calls with the bank, that she relied on and trusted what her friend was telling her, such that 
she was happy to invest her money. And it would appear she discussed the investment 
company on more than one occasion  and as her friend hadnt had any problems with 
them, and had been investing for some time, its hard to see how any intervention by the 
bank would have resulted in her not investing. I appreciate what she says now about 
questions and suggested courses of action. But I need to bear in mind that Ms S makes 
those submissions now with the benefit of hindsight; something she wouldnt have had at the 
time. 
Ms S has also recently said that she didnt consent to her friend passing on her details and 
didnt realise what had happened until she started receiving aggressive and disturbing calls. 
Its not for me to comment on what her friend did; thats a matter between them. And its only 
after the view that Ms S said the initial calls were disturbing and aggressive  this didnt 
feature in any of Ms Ss submissions to the bank. And I have to question if the calls were as 
disturbing and aggressive as she now says, why she went forward with any investments at 
all. Again, if this happened in the way she now says, this supports that Ms S placed a great 
deal of reliance on what her friend told her, such that despite her misgivings about the calls 
she was happy to place her business with the investment company. 
But this is by-the-by, as I find no persuasive evidence that M&S Bank breached its duty to 
Ms S or that it shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment requests she had 
made and authorised. There is a reasonable balance to be struck for the benefit of all 
payment-service users and/or commercial efficiency  and the bank did also have a duty to 
execute a properly-authorised payment request within a reasonable period. 
I turn now to whether M&S Bank took reasonable steps to try and recover Ms Ss funds once 
it knew of the scam. Ms S says the bank didnt take the matter seriously, recorded the wrong 
information and it refused to take immediate action. Having listened to the calls Ms S had 
with the bank, I disagree with all of those points. There is nothing within the calls which 
suggests it didnt take the matter seriously. And Im not persuaded it took down the wrong 
information. Ms S was very unclear about what transactions she was disputing and only 
made reference to the last payment in initial calls. It wasnt until later that it became clear 
that the first two payments, listed above, were also in dispute. So Im not persuaded the 
bank did anything wrong. And Im satisfied that the results of the attempted recovery show 
there were no funds to recover in any event. 
I accept Ms S has lost a lot of money and I understand she will be disappointed with this 
outcome. But as Im not persuaded M&S Bank did anything wrong, I wont be asking it to 
reimburse the funds she lost.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman