DRN-2903798
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled 
his travel claim.
What happened
Mr W had a travel insurance policy with LV. Unfortunately, he had an accident whilst skiing 
abroad and injured his knee, so he contacted LV for assistance. 
LV covered the costs Mr W claimed for. But he said LV failed to inform him early enough that 
he would need a certificate confirming he was fit to fly. This resulted in Mr W having to travel 
home without assistance or additional space on the flight to elevate his injured leg. Mr W 
says he suffered distress and agony throughout the journey because of this. 
Mr W complained to LV once hed returned back to the UK. LV acknowledged there was 
shortcomings in the way it handled Mr Ws claim. It said it should have been more efficient in 
obtaining the fit to fly certificate and its communication with Mr W had been poor. So it paid 
him a total of £250 compensation.
Mr W didnt think this was enough compensation, so he referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think the level of compensation 
awarded by LV was adequate to reflect LVs failure to handle Mr Ws claim in a prompt and 
reasonable way. He recommended LV increase its compensation to £400 in total to address 
the uncomfortable and painful return trip Mr W endured due to LVs inefficiency and lack of 
communication. 
LV agreed with the additional compensation, but Mr W didnt. He said LV had saved much 
more money than that by not providing flight assistance. And he wanted compensation for 
the five days he was unable to work following the trip. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The relevant rules say that LV has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, 
they should give a policyholder reasonable guidance when making a claim. So, Ive carefully 
considered if LV treated Mr W fairly.  But I dont think they did here.  And I agree with our 
investigator that an additional £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the stressful and 
painful journey Mr W endured. Ill explain why. 
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ws difficult journey home. I wouldve expected LV to 
provide support and arrange flight assistance in a timely manner, including checking 
it had all the information it needed to provide the best assistance. 
A fit to fly certificate is a standard document required in the event of a policyholders 
repatriation so I think LV shouldve noticed this wasnt included in the notes much 
sooner than it did because Mr W had sent over the records in a timely manner on the 
9 January 2020. And I can see the medical report was translated a few hours later. 
Had the missing fit to fly certificate been picked up earlier its most likely Mr W would 
have had a much more comfortable and less stressful journey home.
  
It wasnt until 11 January 2020 when Mr W called for an update on his claim that LV 
asked Mr W to provide a fit to fly certificate. And his flight was due to depart the next 
day. So I can appreciate this would have been concerning for Mr W and caused him 
frustration and worry. Especially as he hadnt heard from LV in two days. 
I can see LV did try and go back to request the fit to fly certificate themselves. But 
again, this wasnt until the day before Mr Ws fight was due to depart so its not 
surprising it didnt receive a response from the treating medical facility in time. 
During the call he made to LV on 11 January 2020, Mr W also enquired about flight 
assistance because he hadnt been informed of anything by LV. I can see from the 
internal notes provided to me that LV was looking to arrange additional seats for Mr 
W on his scheduled return flight, but this was never communicated to him. So Mr W 
was left unaware and left to make his own plans to return on his scheduled flight. 
Mr W called LV again the next morning as he hadnt heard back from his case 
handler as promised. He requested an update because he was due to travel to the 
airport within the hour. LV confirmed it had been unable to obtain the fit to fly 
certificate yet so it asked Mr W if he would be prepared to allow LV to arrange a new 
flight if it was unable to obtain the certificate in time to arrange additional flight 
seating. Mr W said no because he wanted to fly with his preferred specific airline. I 
dont think LV handled this matter fairly because it shouldve explored alternate flight 
options with Mr W further and in more detail so he could make an informed decision. 
I dont think it was reasonable for LV to just accept this and not advise Mr W of a 
better option to try and accommodate his needs to ensure a safe journey home. 
Ive considered Mr Ws points around how the cramped journey home has impacted 
his injury. And his request for LV to compensate him 5 days missed work due to his 
injury. Whilst Mr W hasnt provided any medical evidence to substantiate these 
issues, Im persuaded this would have been a significantly uncomfortable journey 
home for Mr W in his condition without any assistance through the airports or with 
any additional seats. But Im also mindful that, despite a lack of guidance from LV, 
ultimately it was Mr W that made the decision to return on his originally scheduled 
flight regardless of the additional support being provided or not. So that must also be 
taken account of. 
Based on the above Im persuaded LV should have acted faster and provided better 
communication to Mr W during his claim. So it needs to increase the total level of 
compensation to fairly address the impact this had. I note Mr Ws comments about the costs 
LV have avoided by failing to provide flight assistance. But that is not a relevant 
consideration when looking at the distress caused to Mr W because of the actions of LV.  
Putting things rightLiverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should put things right by paying Mr W an 
additional £150 compensation for the poor service he received. This includes inefficient 
claims handling and poor communication.    
My final decision
 Under the rules of the Financial For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. I 
require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr W £150 extra compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor claims handling.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman