DRN-3463752
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) allowed her former 
husband to open a credit card account in her name without her knowledge or consent and 
that she has lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mrs F says that her husband dealt with their personal and business finances. Following an 
assault in 2017 Mrs F discovered Halifax statements addressed to her. She didnt have a 
Halifax account so contacted Halifax in July 2017 and found out that a credit card account 
had been opened online in her name in April 2015. 
Two payments (of £11,000 and £7,000) were made from the Halifax account to another 
credit card account in Mrs Fs sole name (with C). Mrs F was expecting to receive these 
funds from a business account to pay for a holiday and didnt know they came from Halifax  
and her statement from C didnt specify where the funds came from. The Halifax account 
was then closed in August 2016 and the outstanding balance was split between two credit 
cards Mrs F also didnt know about. 
Mrs F is unhappy that Halifax allowed the account to be opened in her name and with its 
processes. She says the application was a tick box exercise using readily available 
information and that Halifax should have had concerns about the fact the email address 
given was in her ex-husbands name. Mrs F also says Halifax told her that an account could 
only be opened after it had received a signed credit agreement, but this hadnt happened. 
Mrs F says that she had to take out a consolidation loan to repay sums owed to Halifax and 
that she also made minimum payments of over £1,000. These payments were from an 
account in her name that Mrs Fs ex-husband set up a direct debit from without her 
knowledge. She would like Halifax to put her in the same position shed have been in if the 
Halifax credit card hadnt been taken out. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
she hadnt investigated whether the account was opened fraudulently but accepted Mrs Fs 
testimony that she didnt open the account. But the investigator noted that two payments (of 
£11,000 and £7,000) were made from the Halifax account to Mrs Fs account with C. This 
meant that Mrs F hadnt suffered a loss because although there was a debt on the Halifax 
account of £18,000, Mrs Fs account with C was credited with the same amount.
Mrs F didnt agree with the investigators findings. I have summarised the main points she 
made below:
- The application process was a tick box exercise using details somebody close to her 
would know and Halifax didnt complete any checks. The email address provided was 
that of her husband, but this wasnt investigated. Also, Halifax didnt follow its own 
processes in opening the account without receiving a signed credit agreement.
- Halifax has got its facts wrong in terms of whether certain amounts were debits or 
credits and where funds came from. 
- Minimum payments were paid into the account from Mrs Fs genuine sole account, 
but she didnt set the direct debit up or notice the payments on her statement. And 
whilst the statements for the Halifax credit card were sent to her home address, her 
ex-husband intercepted the post. 
- She has paid over £1,000 in minimum payments before the account was closed and 
had to ask her mortgage company for a further advance to repay credit card debt.
- She hasnt benefited from the funds. The Halifax credit card account was opened and 
£11,000 was paid to her genuine credit card account with C. £7,000 was paid into the 
account, Mrs F believes from her business account that her ex-husband had control 
of as the financial director of the company, leaving a £4,000 balance. A further 
£7,000 was then paid to her account with C. After this Mrs F made direct debit 
payments of over £1,000 before the debt was transferred to two other credit cards in 
Mrs Fs name. Mrs F says the result is that shes paid Halifax and C (and the other 
credit card providers the balance was transferred to). 
- Mrs F says the payments to C were designed to confuse and muddle. 
I issued a provisional decision not upholding Mrs Fs complaint on 15 August 2022. In the 
What Ive provisionally decided - and why section I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Ive thought about whether Im satisfied the Halifax credit card account was opened 
fraudulently. Whilst I dont doubt what Mrs F has told Halifax and this service, I dont believe 
theres enough evidence to conclude that on the balance of probabilities this was the case. I 
appreciate Mrs F has had a difficult time and will be extremely disappointed with my 
conclusion, but I must be fair to both parties. 
The Halifax credit card account application was completed online. Mrs F has seen a copy of 
the online application that asked for personal information including name, address and date 
of birth. The form was signed online by ticking a box and so there was no need to send a 
credit agreement and wait to receive a signed copy for the account set up process to be 
completed. Ive seen evidence which confirms that Halifax completed checks at the time the 
application was made including credit scoring. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Halifax should have had any concerns that the 
application might be fraudulent. The email address provided was in Mrs Fs ex-husbands 
name, but I dont consider this in itself should have been a cause for concern. Many partners 
share an email address that may or may not include a reference to both their names. 
Im not persuaded that the evidence Mrs F has provided to show the account was opened 
fraudulently shows this is the case on the balance of probabilities. I have seen the Halifax 
statement with handwritten notes on saying balances were transferred to other providers 
offering zero percent rates but this isnt enough to satisfy me that the account was opened 
fraudulently and without Mrs Fs knowledge  even if I could verify it was written by Mrs Fs 
ex-husband. Other evidence relates to other accounts and isnt relevant to this complaint. 
Ive reached a similar conclusion to the police in this case  that theres insufficient evidence 
to show who opened the account and whether or not it was opened with Mrs Fs permission. 
The evidence that is available leads me to conclude the Halifax account wasnt hidden from 
Mrs F. I note she says she made minimum payments (without knowing) from her personal 
account. These payments were for more than £100 a month. I consider it unlikely a fraudster 
would have made it so easy to be caught out.  Mrs F has referred to errors made by Halifax and to its statements being confusing. But I 
dont consider any of the things shes referred to mean that Mrs F should receive a refund of 
the amount shes paid to Halifax or any other payments. 
In any event, the debt on the Halifax credit card was £18,000. All of this was used to repay a 
genuine credit card in Mrs Fs name with C so its hard to see how Mrs F has lost out (other 
than in making minimum payments from her sole account). I appreciate that £7,000 was 
credited to the Halifax account and, given the passage of time, Halifax cant say where these 
funds came from, but Mrs F believes they are from her business account. If Ive understood 
things correctly, Mrs F believed that the £7,000 credit to her account with C came from her 
business account and not from a credit card account with Halifax and so this is her loss, 
together with the minimum repayments to the Halifax account of around £1,300. I cant see 
how Halifax can be responsible for this loss though  this is a matter for Mrs F and her ex-
husband.  
Overall, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs F, I dont think Halifax has acted unreasonably. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Halifax didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs F was very unhappy with what I said. I 
have summarised her main points below:
- Halifax didnt correctly follow account opening procedures and didnt complete any 
checks when the account was opened. She has spoken to other banks and been told 
the use of her ex-husbands email address should have led to concerns.
- The account was opened fraudulently by Mrs Fs former husband. Mrs F says she 
didnt know of the existence of the account until February 2017 and didnt give 
permission for the account to be opened. 
Mrs F said the police were unable to determine who opened the account because the 
banks completed minimal checks, and this is the real issue. Mrs F explained the 
police are re-investigating. She referred to four credit cards fraudulently taken out in 
her name, multiple bank accounts being opened, fraudulent documents to claim on 
insurance, theft from a savings account, attempted insurance claims on the business 
account, illegal claims, money laundering and harassment  and said this showed 
intent and dishonesty.
- Her previous appeal was based on the fact the investigator agreed the accounts 
were opened fraudulently and her wish to be put back in the position shed have 
been in if this hadnt happened.  
- Mrs F didnt benefit from the account in any way. She was left with a credit card debt 
to Halifax and her account with C ended up having a higher balance as a result of 
Halifaxs incompetence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Mrs Fs comments Ive reached the same conclusion I set out in 
my provisional decision and for the same reasons. I realise Mrs F will be extremely 
disappointed and am sorry for this, but I cant reasonably make an award in this case.
I recognise Mrs F has had a difficult time and that my conclusion that there is insufficient 
evidence the account was opened fraudulently was upsetting. Mrs F has referred to 
evidence I considered previously and also to other factors not raised before and which she 
hasnt submitted evidence in relation to. But because of my findings in respect of the use of 
the credit in this case I dont consider there is a great deal of merit in going into the opening 
of the account in any more detail. I covered this point in my provisional decision partly because Miss F criticised the investigator for not investigating this point when she responded 
to her view. I agree with Mrs F though that evidence not directly related to this complaint 
indicates that her former husband wasnt always honest. 
Briefly, Im satisfied Halifax did complete checks when the account was opened and am also 
persuaded that Halifax followed its account opening process. I explained in my provisional 
decision that the credit agreement was signed online. This was the process that applied, and 
so Halifax didnt send the application form to the applicant to be signed. I also maintain that 
a shared email address isnt uncommon and in the absence of any other factors shouldnt 
have caused Halifax to be unduly concerned. Other banks may adopt a different approach 
now but Im considering whether Halifax acted reasonably in 2015 so processes followed by 
other banks arent relevant. 
My main reason for not upholding Mrs Fs complaint against Halifax is that Im persuaded 
Miss F benefited from the Halifax credit and so it wouldnt be fair of me to ask Halifax to 
provide a refund. The main transactions on the Halifax credit card account were two 
payments to Mrs Fs sole credit card account of £11,000 and £7,000 and a credit of £7,000 
(given the passage of time Im uncertain where this payment was from). The only other 
transactions were minimum direct debit payments before the balance on the account (except 
for £17.64 which was later paid off) was paid using two credit cards from different providers. 
So the credit on the Halifax credit card account was used to pay off a different credit card in 
Mrs Fs sole name (with C) meaning that her liability to C reduced by £18,000. Mrs F has 
referred to owing both Halifax and C but her debt to C was reduced as a result of payments 
from the Halifax credit card. 
Mrs F may have suffered a loss elsewhere as she has explained that she thought the funds 
crediting her account with C came from her business account, but again I cant hold Halifax 
responsible for this. This is a matter between Mrs F and her ex-husband. Putting Mrs F in 
the position shed have been in had the credit card not been taken out would mean Mrs F 
owed an additional £18,000 to C (plus interest in all probability). In these circumstances I 
dont consider I can fairly ask Halifax to pay anything to Mrs F.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman