DRN-3479430
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him misleading information about his credit 
card account payment.
What happened
Mr J says his October 2021 account statement balance was £708.43 which should have 
been taken by direct debit on 9 November 2021. He says he then received a text message 
from Barclays on 5 November 2021 telling him that £678.44 would be taken by direct debit 
and that he should check his account for more details. Mr J says he called Barclays about 
the issue as its chat facility was not available but says the call was dis-connected after 
about a 40-minute wait, and he didnt receive a call back or an answer to the issue. He says 
he may have been charged interest as a result of the difference and says the account 
statement didnt provide the answer to the different amounts. Mr J would like an apology and 
compensation for what took place.
Barclays says Mr J received a refund of £29.99 on 2 November 2021 which meant he owed 
it less than the statement balance. It said initially, this issue was covered in the account 
terms and conditions but accepts now that it isnt. Barclays says no interest was charged 
and that Mr Js account has had different direct debit amounts taken for the same reasons 
on about five previous occasions.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it was Barclays process to reduce the amount taken by direct debit in these 
circumstances and that it had previously done the same on five occasions. The investigator 
explained that we are not Barclays regulator and so not our role to direct it to change the 
way in which it deals with this sort of issue. The investigator didnt think Mr J suffered any 
financial loss.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and in summary says Barclays actions caused the confusion 
which would be easy to rectify. He questions if he received a text message on previous 
occasions and says he waited for 40 minutes to speak to Barclays before the call ended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require Barclays to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint. But I appreciate how strongly Mr J feels about 
this complaint and also appreciate that he will be disappointed by my decision.
I accept that Barclays ought to have explained to Mr J in its final response letter that this 
issue wasnt covered in the account terms and conditions. But I am satisfied that Barclays 
fairly explained what the difference was between the statement balance and the direct debit 
amount, which was the refund. Im also satisfied that when the statement was produced that 
Barclays wouldnt have known about the refund and that it acted fairly by reducing the 
amount of the direct debit. The alternative would have meant that Mr Js account would have 
been in credit and that he had paid more than he owed.
I appreciate that Mr J says that he was directed to check his account for the difference in the 
amounts and that the account statement didnt have any information about the difference. I 
think on balance that Barclays intended that Mr J check his account rather than his account 
statement which would have shown the refund of £29.99 on 2 November 2021 if Mr J had 
online access to recent transactions. In any event I dont think Mr J suffered any financial 
loss as a result of what took place and he wasnt charged any interest as he feared might 
happen. I dont think it matters what may have taken place in the past as I think it clear Mr J 
didnt appreciate what the difference between the two figures was. And I can only consider 
what did take place rather than the possibility of interest being charged.
I also appreciate Mr Js frustration in spending some 40 minutes on hold to speak to 
Barclays about this issue and for the call to then end. We are not Barclays regulator as the 
investigator has explained and so its not our role to direct it about staff numbers or its policy 
in these circumstances. I am sure Mr J appreciates that its not always easy to estimate call 
volumes to ensure sufficient staff numbers, but I understand why he may have thought 
Barclays would have attempted to contact him about the issue when the call ended.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly by reducing the direct debit in these 
circumstances. I dont think Mr J suffered any real impact that would justify compensation 
and am satisfied that Barclays fairly explained the difference between the figures in its final 
response letter of 11 November 2021 which was some days after the problem arose. It 
follows that I cant fairly order Barclays pay compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman