DRN-4303056
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) discriminated against him because
he says the members of staff in branch failed to make a reasonable adjustment for his
medical condition by not allowing him to jump the queue or not opening up another till for
him.
Mr V has also complained about how Halifax has handled a number of Data Subject Access
Requests (DSARs). Specifically, Mr V is unhappy that hed requested CCTV footage from
the branch in question to be provided to him, but the footage was deleted, even though hed
submitted his DSAR well within the retention period and had specifically asked for
the footage.
What happened
On 18 October 2022, Mr V attended a Halifax branch to withdraw £40 from the counter. Mr V
says that there was a very long line, which took around 30 to 40 minutes before he was
served. Unfortunately, due to Mr V having mental health conditions, which he says he
particularly experiences in public and crowded places, he started to feel anxious whilst he
was waiting.
Mr V eventually got served and then left the branch, but very quickly realised hed lost £30 of
the £40 hed only just withdrawn. Within about 10 minutes or so, Mr V went back into branch
to make another withdrawal at the counter (as he had no debit card on him), to replace the
money hed just lost. However, by this stage Mr V started to suffer from a panic attack,
whereby he was becoming manic, feeling highly anxious and started pacing up and down
and sweating.
Mr V says he explained his situation, including that he is registered as disabled, his health
conditions and how he was suffering from a panic attack at the time, to a member of staff in
the hope that he could jump the queue or that another till could be opened for him, so he
could get out of the branch as quickly as he could. Mr V says that the member of staff told
him that hed have to wait in the existing queue as there were not enough staff to open
another till.
Mr V says some people in the queue heard his predicament and allowed him to cut in the
queue, which fortunately reduced the amount of time he had to wait to be served again.
After the above occurred, Mr V submitted a DSAR to Halifax on 24 October 2022, and
specifically asked that CCTV footage of his visits to the Halifax Branch be provided.
Halifax never actioned this request due to Halifax writing to a different address from the one
it held for Mr V on its systems.
Mr V made further DSARs, but by the time Halifax responded, the CCTV footage was no
longer available as it had been deleted. Halifax initially responded to the complaint on 8 
November 2022. It acknowledged that the level of service in relation to the long wait times in 
branch wasnt acceptable, so Halifax paid Mr V £60 for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced.
Mr V contacted Halifax again as he didnt feel that his complaint had been investigated
thoroughly enough and he wanted to raise further concerns about the way his DSAR request
was handled.
Halifax issued a further final response dated 14 December 2022, where it acknowledged that
there were mistakes made in relation to Mr Vs DSAR requests, resulting in the CCTV
footage no longer being available by the time it had responded. Halifax again apologised for
the long wait times Mr V experienced in branch but explained that it is a particularly busy
branch.
Within the letter Halifax also addressed Mr Vs concerns regarding reasonable adjustments 
and the fact that Mr V felt discriminated against under the Equality Act. Halifax said it takes 
its duties under the disability discrimination act regarding reasonable adjustments very
seriously, but said it wasnt possible to make adjustments on the day, as the branch was
extremely busy and there were no staff members available to open another till. Halifax also
said it would have been unreasonable to allow Mr V to jump the queue and be served ahead
of other customers.
Halifax awarded Mr V with an increased settlement of £200, to acknowledge the poor service
that he experienced in branch, relating to the longer than usual wait times, and then a further
£36 to cover the cost of phone calls he made.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and in summary they didnt think that
Halifax had treated Mr V unfairly or unreasonably, essentially because they were satisfied by
Halifaxs explanation that there were not enough staff in which to open another counter.
They concluded that what Halifax had already offered to resolve the complaint was
reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 July 2023, explaining why I didnt think that Halifax had 
treated Mr V unfairly whilst he was in branch. But I did think that Halifax had handled Mr Vs 
DSAR request unreasonably. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below, 
and it forms a part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything that Mr V and Halifax have provided, I currently think that
Halifax has not acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr V because it did not let 
him jump the queue or open a new till for him.
However, I do think that Halifax should pay Mr V further compensation because of 
how it handled the DSAR requests. I have explained why I think this below.
Limitations on what our service is able to do
Firstly, Id like to make it clear that our service is unable to make findings on whether 
or not something constitutes discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. This is 
because the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts.
However, if Mr V wants a finding as to whether or not Halifaxs failure to let him jump 
the queue or open another till whilst he was in branch is a breach the Equality Act (or 
indeed any other law), he will need to pursue it through the courts. This is because 
only a judge can give a formal decision on whether or not a piece of legislation has been breached. It is outside of this services jurisdictional remit and therefore not 
something I can do within this decision.
All I can consider is whether or not the business has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner in this matter. Although, to do that, I take a number of things - including the 
Equality Act 2010 - into consideration.
Mr Vs second visit to the branch
When Mr V went back to the Halifax branch, having realised that hed lost some of 
the money hed only just withdrawn, I can appreciate why Mr V was in a state of 
agitation  especially given what he has told us about his circumstances. And I can 
see why he didnt want to have to queue up, yet again, to withdraw more money from 
his account.
Mr V has explained that he told a member of staff about his situation, in summary: 
that hed just been in and lost the money hed only just withdrawn; that hes 
registered as disabled due to mental health conditions; and that he was suffering 
from poor mental health at the time. And Mr V says that Halifax dismissed what hed 
said and told him that there were not enough staff to open another till, which meant 
hed have to join the existing queue and wait to be served. Mr V says that this 
effectively meant that Halifax had failed to make a reasonable adjustment for him, as 
it was required to do under the relevant discrimination laws.
Halifax has explained that it was unable to open another till because it was really 
busy on the day and that its staff were already dealing with customers which meant 
there was no member of staff spare to be able to open another till.
Mr V says that staff members were standing around and he says they couldve 
opened a till and served him. Mr V has provided photos of staff from his visit - one 
person looks to be reloading a coffee machine and another standing with his arms 
crossed, looking at something around a corner. However, I dont think that what Mr V 
has provided proves that Halifax did actually have staff that were able to open 
another till. I say this because, just because someone doesnt look busy, doesnt 
mean that they are not already in the middle of a task. Moreover, theres no 
guarantee that the people he saw standing around were even trained to operate a 
till. For example, the people he took a photo of could well have been mortgage or 
financial advisors, rather than counter staff.
As such, whilst I recognise why Mr V wanted another till opened, and I appreciate his
frustration that he had to wait to be served again, Im satisfied with Halifaxs 
explanation that there werent enough staff available in which to open another till.
Mr V has also questioned why he was not allowed to jump the queue. But I dont 
think that Mr Vs expectations that he be allowed to jump the existing queue is a 
reasonable expectation. Having said that, I do think he couldve perhaps been 
offered the choice to sit down and have his place in the queue held for him  as 
Halifax suggested as an option in its response to the complaint. But from what I have 
seen, it seems that all of the members of staff in the branch, including the one that Mr 
V spoke to were already dealing with other customers at the time, so I can appreciate 
why the suggestion was not made at the time.
And from what I have seen of Mr Vs testimony, it seems that he was frustrated 
largely because of how long it would take to make another withdrawal, so Im not sure that such a suggestion wouldve placated Mr V, even if the option had been 
offered to him.
Mr V has said that he was able to cut in to the queue in branch, as customers already 
in the queue allowed him to join the queue in front of them. Therefore, it seems that 
Mr V was fortunately able to reduce the amount of time he had to wait in any event.
In its response to Mr Vs complaint, Halifax explained that it has made a note on Mr 
Vs customer record, so that in future, when staff are dealing with Mr V, they will be 
aware of Mr Vs circumstances. I can also see that Halifax suggested Mr V use 
another Halifax branch which is located closer to where he lives, on account that it is 
not as busy as the one hed visited and so should be less stressful for Mr V to use, 
should he need to visit. Halifax has also offered to provide Mr V with a lanyard, again 
so that if he visits a Halifax branch, the staff will be made aware that he may have 
other needs.
Overall, these all seem reasonable suggestions to assist Mr V when using a branch 
going forwards. Although of course, Halifax cant guarantee that the branches will not 
be crowded (or that there will be enough staff to open more tills), should Mr V need to 
visit one again.
DSAR
In the course of the complaint, Mr V made a DSAR to Halifax, I understand a key 
piece of evidence Mr V wanted to obtain by making such a request was the CCTV 
footage from the day he was in branch. Due to Halifax writing to the incorrect address 
for Mr V, the DSAR was not actioned within the specified time frame, which in turn 
led to the footage being deleted before Mr V was able to see a copy of it.
In the circumstances, I think that Halifax did get matters wrong in terms of its 
handling of the initial DSAR. I understand that in a later DSAR, Halifax had missed a 
number of call recordings, although this was quickly rectified, and the call recordings 
sent out to Mr V a short time later.
So, its clear that Halifax failed to respond to the initial DSAR within the specified 
time. But I dont think writing to an address that doesnt match the one it already held 
on file for Mr V is reasonable. Afterall, if there was uncertainty about which address 
to use, Halifax couldve contacted Mr V using another method or written to the 
address it held for him in the first instance. And not only did Halifax fail to respond to 
Mr V in time, it also chose to delete the requested footage, even though it knew that 
Mr V wanted to obtain a copy of the footage.
I can see why Mr V was frustrated with Halifax, as its clear that he believes that the 
CCTV evidence was central to proving his complaint and corroborating his testimony.
However, I dont think the absence of the footage changes my thoughts on this case. 
I say this because Mr V says the footage would show he was not swearing whilst he 
was in branch, or indeed acting in the way that the member of staff said he was. But 
even if I just accept Mr Vs testimony at face value, I still dont think what he says 
happened means that Halifax treated him unfairly or unreasonably whilst he was in 
branch.
So, although I appreciate that Mr V was suffering from poor mental health at the time, 
in my view this does not mean that Halifax acted unfairly or unreasonably because it 
was unable to open another till for Mr V because members of staff were already busy dealing with customers at the time. Nor do I think Mr V having to join the existing 
queue rather than being allowed to jump the queue was being unreasonable either.
As such, taking everything into account, I think that what Halifax offered, which was a 
total of £260 for the distress and inconvenience Mr V experienced during his branch 
visit, is not unreasonable compensation.
But I do think that Halifax should also pay Mr V compensation for how it handled his 
DSAR  particularly for how it handled his first DSAR request.
Having reviewed what Mr V has told us, and the evidence that Halifax has provided, I
currently think Halifax should pay Mr V a further £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr V experienced when making his initial DSAR and the subsequent 
chasers. I say this bearing in mind that Halifax has already paid Mr V £36 towards 
the costs of the calls he made to Halifax about this matter.
Putting matters right
I currently think that, in addition to what Halifax has already paid Mr V, Halifax should 
also pay Mr V £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused because of Halifaxs 
handling of the DSARs.
Mr V didnt respond to the provisional decision, but Halifax did and it said that it had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, and as no new information has been provided by either 
party, I see no reason why I should reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
So, to put matters right, in addition to what Halifax has already paid Mr V in relation to this 
complaint, Halifax should also pay Mr V £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its handling of Mr Vs DSARs.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
in part and require Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) to do what I have outlined above to put 
matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman