DRN-3317658
The complaint
Mr B complains about the level of service received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
following a claim for a damaged watch against his buildings insurance policy. 
Reference to UKI includes their agents. 
What happened
Mr B had an escape of water in 2021. He says he took his watch off and left it on the side 
when it dropped on to the floor and into the water, causing damage. So, he raised a claim. 
The watch was sent for an inspection. UKI say due to the make, model, and age, they were 
unable to send it to a specialist for repairs. UKI cash settled the claim and paid Mr B £2,350. 
They say this amount reflected the market value of the watch, minus the salvage costs as Mr 
B wanted to keep it due to its sentimental value. 
Mr B felt the cash settlement was far too low. He says the watch was worth around £5,000. 
He also says UKI caused further damage to it before it was returned because it wasnt 
packaged reasonably, amongst other things. He also says it was partially working when he 
sent it to UKI, and when he received it back, there was damage to the front, and the back 
casing was missing. 
UKI says the watch was safely returned in packaging. They also say they didnt remove the 
bezel or the back casing when inspecting it. 
Mr B disputed this. He says UKI told him the casing had been removed. And UKI had 
commented on the damage inside the watch he thinks only could have been established by 
taking the watch apart. Whereas, UKI says Mr Bs watch had two cases on the back  which 
was unusual  and only the first casing was removed to locate the serial number. 
Mr B wasnt happy with UKIs response, or the service received, so he complained. UKI 
considered this and paid Mr B £30 compensation which they say was the amount to replace 
the casing Mr B says was missing. They felt the claim was handled reasonably and settled 
fairly by a cash settlement being paid. They also refunded the amount deducted from the 
cash settlement for the salvage. They also say they asked Mr B to provide more information 
regarding the valuation as he felt this was too low. Mr B remained unhappy and approached 
our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
agreed there was some confusion caused by UKI during the claim process. But she felt UKI 
settled the claim in line with the policy terms and compensated him fairly for what happened. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide, and the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is the policy terms which say UKI will choose whether to:
replace or repair the item or part 
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have 
cost us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
make a cash payment.  
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using 
our own suppliers. 
These terms enable UKI to cash settle a claim which they decided to do here. I know Mr B 
strongly feels UKI should have carried out repairs, but the policy entitles them to settle the 
claim by paying a cash settlement. 
UKI say the cash settlement was based on similar watches being sold at the time of the 
claim incident. But they also say there was no true equivalent model given the production of 
Mr Bs particular model. As such, they paid Mr B £2,350  deducted from this was the 
salvage which they say was later refunded to Mr B. 
I accept Mr B feels the cash settlement was too low and told us the watch holds sentimental 
value  which I appreciate. What I havent seen, however, is strong supporting evidence 
from Mr B that demonstrates UKI provided him with an unreasonable cash settlement, or 
that the watch should have been valued at a significantly higher price  he thinks the 
valuation should be doubled. So, Im unable to agree with Mr B, based on the information 
Ive seen, that UKI acted unfairly when relying on their agents to provide a cash settlement. 
Mr B says his watch was partially working before he sent it to UKI. And it was returned with 
further damage, the back casing was missing, and had been poorly packaged, amongst 
other things. He says UKI gave conflicting information on whether the casing was removed. 
The bezel had been damaged before the claim occurred, Mr B says. The claim incident 
reported also suggested the watch was dropped from a kitchen side which would also 
suggest impact damage could have occurred. 
I appreciate why UKIs comments regarding the way the watch was handled when inspected 
could have caused some confusion. That said, I havent seen strong supporting evidence 
that shows further damage was caused to the watch when in UKIs possession. I dont doubt 
Mr Bs testimony that the watch was returned with a case missing, and Ive seen UKI went 
on to pay him to replace this. I think this was the right thing to do. Ive also seen UKI 
refunded the salvage amount they had initially deducted from the settlement. 
Overall, I understand why Mr B wanted UKI to repair the watch. But, as above, UKI were 
entitled to settle the claim by cash settling it. I havent seen any supporting evidence that 
persuades me to agree UKI failed to provide Mr B with a fair cash settlement. I accept this 
would have been a frustrating period for Mr B, but I think the steps UKI took to attempt to put 
matters right were fair and reasonable. 
The watch held sentimental value to Mr B, so I think matters have been fairly resolved by 
UKI cash settling the claim in the way they did, and Mr B was able to retain the watch 
without incurring any salvage charges. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B. But my decision ends what we  
in attempting to resolve his dispute with UKI  can do for him. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman