DRN-4410401
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sporting Index Limited let him trade using a trading facility without 
carrying out appropriate checks. He also says that it let him trade throughout the years 
without picking up on his vulnerability. He says that he lost a significant amount of money as
a result.
What happened
Mr L had a spreadbetting account with Sporting Index which he had opened in 1997. He was
given a credit facility of £1,500 that he could use for trading, and throughout the years placed
thousands of trades.
In 2021 Mr Ls account had a negative balance which Mr L was unable to pay back
immediately. Initially the account was suspended  having cleared the balance, Mr L asked
the account to be allowed to trade again, but this was declined. Sporting Index explained
that this was based on some of the communications from Mr L which suggested gambling
had caused significant losses and financial difficulties. Mr L complained about this decision,
and alleged he should never have been allowed to trade in the first place  especially with
the trading facility. Sporting Index didnt agree Mr L had been treated unfairly nor that he was
entitled to compensation, and so Mr L referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint. She concluded that given the nature of
his complaint, Mr L ought to have complained about the opening of his account much earlier
than he did. She therefore concluded that under the rules that govern which complaints this
service can look into, she could not consider anything Sporting Index did or didnt do in
relation to Mr Ls account prior to September 2015  that being 6 years before Mr L raised
his complaint.
In looking at the period 2015 to 2021, the investigator concluded that Sporting Index knew or
shouldve known that Mr L had a vulnerability such that spreadbetting was not in his best
interests. She concluded that the trades on his account, the persistent negative balance as
well as his use of the trading facility all indicated he had financial difficulties.
She said that Sporting Index therefore ought to have stepped in and stopped Mr L from
trading  and if it had done so, he wouldve avoided the significant losses he sustained from
2015 onwards.
Sporting Index didnt agree. It said:
The trading facility Mr L had was for £1,500 only and was based on his longstanding 
relationship with the firm.
Mr L never made Sporting Index aware of any issues or problems until he mentioned 
he was borrowing money to pay back the debt. At this point it said it immediately 
acted.
As per the terms of the account, Mr L was trading on an execution only basis and this 
means it was his responsibility to ensure he had sufficient funds in his account to 
cover his losses.
Mr L agreed with the investigator, and provided some additional comments. In short, he said
that it shouldve been obvious from his statements that he was struggling and had a
gambling problem. He said as with any addiction it was difficult to tell Sporting Index about it,
and it shouldve been its responsibility to check his vulnerability. He said he has consistently
had a terrible credit rating throughout the years, and this wouldve been apparent to Sporting
Index had it checked. And he said that he didnt really have any relationship with Sporting
Index, as it consisted only in emails its credit department sent chasing him for payment. He
also said that he couldve lost £10,000 in his last trade and was fortunate to have only lost
£4,000. He sent two emails showing an agreement to repay his negative balance in
instalments.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. Before issuing my
provisional decision, I asked Sporting Index for some further information. In particular, I 
asked it to explain how it reviewed Mr Ls account over the years, and what its process was
for identifying vulnerable clients. I also asked it to give some information around the number
of clients, in the period in question, who had a negative balance.
Sporting Index provided the following information:
It said that it treated all credit customers on an account by account basis. It said that 
Mr L was a very long term customer who had a track record of always making 
payments even if there were occasional delays. It said that there never any alarms 
around vulnerability due to the relatively low level of his credit limit and his general 
good standing with us. It said he had never suggested or acted in a manner that 
caused any concern around vulnerability.
It said that he was rejected a higher limit on occasion, but it said that this was mainly 
because [] we have very few credit account customers and there would only be 
appetite to extend in the period in question for ultra high net worth individuals. It said 
that its decision not to increase his credit was down to an abundance of caution 
given that he had occasionally taken longer to pay back. 
It said that it offered a number of player protection tools on its platform, including 
deposit limits, time outs, cool downs and self exclusion  and these links are 
displayed throughout its website. It explained that it had a dedicated player 
protection team who were trained in spotting player vulnerability with a focus on 
looking for spikes in playing time, spend, changes in playing patterns.
It said that on 31 December 2021, it had over 700 accounts with a negative balance 
of £100 or more. This amounted to around 5% of its active customers. It said it wasnt  
possible to identify customers who had a persistent negative balance during the 
period 2015-2021.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023. In it I said:
I think its important that I clarify some aspects of this case and my remit first, before I go on
to explain why I disagree with the investigator.
Sporting Index has not caused Mr Ls financial losses. These losses were the result of
spreadbets which Mr L placed on various sporting events throughout the years, and whichdidnt go in his favour. Mr L losing money spreadbetting isnt unusual, most consumers do,
and it wasnt unlawful for Sporting Index to have offered this type of trading to him.
My role is to look at what Sporting Index did or didnt do, and decide whether its actions or
inactions were fair and reasonable, taking into account the law, relevant regulations and
industry good practice. But my role does not extend to making new rules, or applying rules
retrospectively.
Finally, I do agree with the investigator that only the 6 years preceding Mr Ls complaint to
Sporting Index are within this services jurisdiction. Consequently, I will not make any finding
on how the account was opened, or anything that happened on the account before 2015.
Most of the rules which governed Sporting Indexs relationship with Mr L were about when to
allow a consumer to open a spreadbetting account.
There werent any particular rules about whether accounts such as Mr Ls ought to be
monitored or whether a certain size of loss, or cumulated losses, ought to trigger the closure
or suspension of trading. However, there were two relevant overarching obligations which
Sporting Index needed to comply with.
The first overarching rule which Sporting Index was required to comply with at all times was
in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Conduct for Business Rules (COBS) COBS 2.1  Acting
honestly, fairly and professionally. In short, this rule required Sporting Index to act honestly,
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The second was complying with the FCAs expectations on how to identify and treat
vulnerable customers. The Finalised Guidance on this, FG21/1 Guidance for firms on the
fair treatment of vulnerable customers.
In considering how Sporting Index complied with these rules, Ive had to weigh up several
different factors:
In deciding what was in its clients best interests Sporting Index was required to 
weigh up what Mr L clearly wanted to do with his money, and what he had been 
doing for almost 20 years by that point  versus its own objective assessment of what 
it considered was in his best interests.
The FCAs guidance on vulnerability makes it clear that while frontline staff should 
take steps to encourage disclosure where they see clear indicators of vulnerability 
they are not expected to go further than this to proactively identify vulnerability.
The FCAs guidance directly discusses spreadbetting, and explains that before 
restrictions were placed, many consumers were unable to understand the 
complexities of the products or the impact of the leverage on the likelihood of the 
products making a profit.
The guidance also says firms should proactively tell consumers about the options of 
help and support they offer.
Spreadbetting is inherently a high risk form of trading, and for most consumers is not 
in their interests  but thats because most consumers dont have the knowledge or 
experience to understand the high risks, and therefore, the significant negative 
financial impact such trading can have. Mr L was not in this category  he was fully 
aware of the risks and how spreadbetting worked because he had been doing it for 
so long.Taking the above into account, Im not persuaded there were particular obligations on
Sporting Index to evaluate Mr Ls losses in terms of affordability, or to proactively contact
him about his losses or his trading. 
So for me to conclude that Sporting Index ought to have limited or stopped Mr L trading at 
some point between 2015 and 2021, Id need to be persuaded that there was something 
inherently untoward in the way that Mr L was managing his account  the FCAs guidance 
highlights this when it talks about signs to look out for, such as unusual activity on an 
account or payments stopping suddenly. In the context of spreadbetting, Im satisfied that 
the guidance required Sporting Index to be alert to something so obvious that it ought to 
have prompted it to seek assurance, from Mr L, that spreadbetting was still in his best 
interests.
Mr Ls main arguments appear to be that he should never have been given a trading facility
to trade with. And the size of his losses, as well as his negative balance, ought to have
prompted Sporting Index to suspend or close his account much sooner than it did.
The investigator agreed with Mr L, and concluded that this shouldve happened in
September 2015  so that all losses between 2015 and 2021 would be refunded. But I dont
currently agree thats fair and reasonable.
In relation to the trading facility that Mr L was given, Im not persuaded I have sufficient
evidence to conclude that Sporting Index did something wrong by offering it to him. Im also
not persuaded that it made much difference to Mr Ls trading because the amount of credit
available for trading was very limited, compared to the overall amount he invested between
2015 and 2021.
Ive also carefully considered Mr Ls trading, and whether the way he managed his account,
both in terms of his balance and his trading, ought to have prompted Sporting Index to take
further action.
I should say first of all that I dont agree September 2015 is a fair to date to say that Sporting
Index ought to have taken action. I say this because from July 2015, when Mr L had a
negative balance of just over £2,100, to April 2016, Mr L didnt carry out any trades. He
regularly paid a set amount from his debit card until his balance was cleared. In looking at
this period, I dont agree I can make any inferences or conclude that Sporting Index
shouldve known something was wrong. Mr L stopped trading of his own volition, and was
paying his negative balance off every month using a debit card. Neither of these actions, in
my view, inherently indicate a vulnerability that Sporting Index needed to explore. Sporting
Index had thousands of clients, and I dont agree theres anything in this instance that ought
to have alerted them to Mr L doing something that was not in his best interests.
Furthermore, Sporting Index has said that it had 100s of clients, at any given point, that had
a negative balance  and so Mr Ls account would not have been unusual. It had a process
in place for dealing with clients on a case by case basis, and Im satisfied this was fair and
reasonable.
From April 2016 until early 2021, Mr L placed around 1800 trades on a variety of sporting
events. This shows that Mr L was fully aware of what he was doing, was very active, and
was trading consistently.
Of the 1800 trades he placed, over 800 were profitable, netting him around £77,000  whilst
the other 1000 were loss-making, totalling around £115,700. Looking at these numbers, I
remain of the view that there was no indication that Mr L was doing something that heshouldnt, or was exposing himself to more economic harm than he could handle. 
As I mention above, spreadbetting is an inherently high risk type of trading, and most 
consumers lose money doing it. A typical trader may have many more losing trades than 
winning ones, and Mr Ls ratio of winning trades to losing trades isnt, in my view, 
exceptional or atypical. And, given the sums involved, its clear to me that Mr L did have 
some success trading. So Mr Ls trading itself, or his limited success doing it, is not in my 
view enough to conclude that Sporting Index ought to have been alerted to Mr Ls situation.
As the guidance from the FCA indicates, frontline staff ought to have been alert to signs Mr L
might have a vulnerability  but they were not required to proactively identify it. I dont agree
that Mr L was treated unfairly by Sporting Index not identifying that he had or may have had
a vulnerability during this time period.
Ive therefore also considered his account balance. Between 2015 and 2021, Mr Ls balance
was in negative the majority of the time, usually between £-1000 and 0. Until 2019, Mr Ls
balance never feel bellow £-1,500, and his highest negative balances were in 2020 and, in 
particular, 2021.
It isnt for me to set a limit or specify at what point a negative balance ought to prompt
Sporting Index to take action, particularly given that negative balance protection, which is a
regulatory requirement for financial spreadbetting, is not a requirement for sport 
spreadbetting. In my view, a consistently rising negative balance, combined with consistently
loss-making trades and lack of any ability to pay the majority of the debt back, may indicate
financial difficulties. But again, this wasnt Mr Ls case. His statements show that he regularly
deposited money in his account  almost £56,000 during the period in question. And during
that same period, there were over 100 occasions when he was able to withdraw sums from
his account, over £15,700.
So Im not persuaded that Mr Ls account showed anything that ought to have prompted
Sporting Index to treat him differently, or question whether allowing him to continue to trade
was in his best interests. And even if I thought Sporting Index ought to have contacted Mr L
to check in at some point between 2015 and 2021 (bearing in mind that there was no
regulatory requirement for that to happen), its clear to me that Mr L was determined to trade.
The size of his losses, his negative balance or his losing trades did not stop him trading
regularly. And so Im not persuaded theres anything he wouldve disclosed to Sporting Index
that wouldve prompted it to unilaterally stop him trading  and for me to conclude that his
losses ought to be refunded, thats what Id need to be persuaded wouldve happened.
The first opportunity Sporting Index had to recognise that Mr L had a vulnerability and was
also in financial difficulties was in early 2021. At that point his balance was higher than it had
been, and he clearly indicated to Sporting Index the lengths he had gone to in order to pay
back the debt  including borrowing from family and friends.
Im satisfied that this was the point when Sporting Index had enough information to decide
whether spreadbetting remained in Mr Ls best interests  and Im satisfied it was fair and
reasonable for it to conclude, at that point, that it no longer was in Mr L's best interests to
continue trading on its platform.
Mr L didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said:
He received 100s of emails from the credit department chasing money and this 
shouldve been considered a red flag. He said that paying back the loss over a year 
was a red flag, and all he could pay was £20 a month towards at the time. 
He also said that the size of his losses werent normal and the business should have checked. 
His credit history showed that he had a history of being in debt management, and he 
had taken out numerous payday loans to satisfy his addiction. He said it wasnt an 
excuse to say they had 100s of people in arrears given his very clear signs. 
He maintained that he shouldnt have been allowed to make the bets he did, 
including his last which lost him £4,000. 
Nothing had changed in 2021 compared to previous years and Sporting Index knew 
full well that he was vulnerable and had a gambling addiction. He said hed spend a 
year of borrowing money from family and friends to pay back the debt. 
Sporting Index even made him a gold WIP member which entitled him to competition 
and prizes, and he queried how he qualified for that without any checks other than 
his many losses  which he said was why Sporting Index wanted him to continue 
trading with it. He said that Sporting Index had met him many times and knew his job 
and that he wasnt a big earner. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully read Mr Ls comments, and I understand that he profoundly disagrees with the 
reasons I gave for not upholding his complaint. And I do sympathise with the difficult 
circumstances he found himself in, and the reasons he has given for why he believes 
Sporting Index ought to have picked up on his vulnerability despite him never raising it 
directly with it. 
But my role is to be impartial and ensure that I take into account all the circumstances that 
are relevant when deciding whats fair and reasonable. 
And whilst Ive taken into account Mr Ls comments in response to my provisional 
conclusions, I dont agree they make a difference to the circumstances I laid out previously. 
Ultimately, Sporting Index knew Mr L was an experienced and active spreadbetter, it knew 
his ratio of winning to losing trades, and the overall size of his profits and losses. It had 
processes in place to identify if Mr L was displaying vulnerable characteristics, and Mr L 
didnt meet those. 
Mr L has asked me to hold Sporting Index entirely responsible for all of his losses  but I 
dont agree thats fair. Mr L has powerfully made his point about the effect of his addiction 
and the irresistible compulsion he had to place trades, even large ones. But if the regulator 
wanted firms like Sporting Index to take responsibility for trading losses sustained in such 
circumstances, it wouldve said so. 
Instead, the rules which the FCA required Sporting Index to comply with set out broad 
guidelines on circumstances its staff needed to be alert to, and in particular have processes 
in place to identify. And it also required it to have tools in place which consumers like Mr L 
could have access to in order to manage their own circumstances appropriately. 
Mr L remained responsible for managing his account and making use of the tools which 
Sporting Index made available to him  for example deposit limits, timeouts or self-exclusion. 
It is a matter of fact that Mr L never made use of those tools, and the reality is that, in my 
view, the only way Mr Ls losses with Sporting Index couldve been avoided is if Sporting 
Index proactively and unilaterally decided to stop Mr L from trading. Whilst Sporting Index may have been entitled to take such action under the various 
principles and rules Ive set out above, there was no legal or regulatory obligation that 
required it to do so. Furthermore, for the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that in the 
particular circumstances of Mr Ls case, there was sufficient grounds for it to take such 
unilateral action  so Im not persuaded it treated Mr L unfairly by not doing so. 
Ive also considered the fact that negative balance Mr L had with Sporting Index at various 
times during the relevant period was not incurring any interest, charges or penalties  so Im 
not surprised that Mr L took his time to pay it back when necessary. The key issue, as 
Sporting Index has said, is that Mr L had consistently managed his account in ways which 
did not suggest, clearly, that he was struggling, until 2021. 
Taking all this into account, including the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded Sporting Index ever had sufficient information to unilaterally prevent Mr L from 
trading or close his account until it did so in 2021. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr L, but for the reasons Ive given Im 
not persuaded to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman