DRN-3553469
The complaint
Mr G complains about the transfer of the defined benefits (DB) he held in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by 
David Bray Ltd (the respondent business in this complaint) and another financial business 
(which Ill call Firm W). He believes that the advice provided was unsuitable for him which 
has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss. 
Mr G is being represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to all their comments as 
those of Mr G.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Gs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr G was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he contacted a financial 
adviser, however this firm was unable to complete the advice process so Mr G was referred 
to David Bray. Mr G met with David Bray in January 2018, during which it gathered 
information about his circumstances and objectives. But as David Bray didnt hold the 
relevant permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of 
his defined benefits in the BSPS, it said Firm W would provide Mr G with advice.
Firm W carried out further fact-finding and completed a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS). Firm W then sent Mr G a suitability report on 14 January 2018 advising him to 
transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension plan. £243,139.90 was transferred to the new 
personal pension and was invested with P in a managed fund. Firm W charged Mr G 
£4,862.80 for the advice, and Firm W paid £1,945 to David Bray as an introducer fee. Mr G 
was referred back to David Bray for ongoing advice and servicing of his pension.
In July 2021 Mr G complained to David Bray about the advice. David Bray looked into Mr Gs 
complaint and told him it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it 
referred him to Firm W. 
Unhappy with David Brays response, his representative asked our service to consider 
Mr Gs complaint. The representative said Mr G had met with David Bray and hed 
completed the fact-find which contained both advice and a recommendation to transfer his 
BSPS pension to a personal pension plan with P. The representative said that only David 
Bray provided Mr G with any advice about the transfer and that the advice was unsuitable. It 
said it the fact find completed by David Bray was evidence that it had provided Mr G with 
advice. 
The representative also said Mr G had been verbally advised to transfer by David Bray and 
he had relied on its advice, so it should also be held liable. Mr Gs representative said, in the 
alternative, that David Bray was obliged to treat him fairly and have regard to his best 
interests both of which, the representative said, it had failed to do. Finally Mr G said David 
Bray should be held jointly liable with Firm W for the advice it gave him and the losses hed 
suffered.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt 
persuaded that David Bray had advised Mr G to transfer his pension  he was satisfied that 
Mr G had only transferred his pension because Firm W advised him to do so.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator; Ill explain why. 
Before I begin, Id like to be clear that my decision wont address every point or comment 
made by either Mr G or David Bray. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure all 
parties that I have considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided to our 
service. But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
My understanding of Mr Gs position is that David Bray should be held liable because it 
advised him to transfer his pension and Mr G relied upon that advice. It also argues there 
was a joint venture between David Bray and Firm W. And in addition, it says David Bray 
should be held liable because it did not treat Mr G fairly or have regard to his best interests. 
Ill address each point in turn.
Did David Bray advise Mr G to transfer?
David Bray did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an arrangement in place with Firm W, 
where Firm W would provide advice on the transfer of the occupational scheme and the 
client would be referred back to David Bray for ongoing advice if the transfer went ahead.
Having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that David Bray advised Mr G 
to transfer his BSPS benefits. Its clear that Mr G met with David Brays adviser on several 
occasions and Ive taken into account that David Bray has said it completed a pension 
transfer service questionnaire and risk assessment for Firm Ws benefit. 
While these documents being completed by David Bray could have given rise to Mr Gs 
belief that David Bray was giving him advice, I think this was clearly done for Firm Ws 
benefit. In fact, the pension transfer service questionnaire bore Firm Ws name. And I dont 
think that any of these documents gave an indication that David Bray would be using this information to provide Mr G with advice. I can also see that the suitability report referred to 
David Bray specifically as an introducer.
I accept that David Brays adviser may have done a lot of the fact-finding with Mr G and 
discussed his objectives and reasons for wanting to transfer out of the BSPS. But apart from 
completing the initial documents, the remaining work required to put Mr G in a position to 
transfer was completed by Firm W. Firm W gathered further information from Mr G and 
requested a TVAS report. Firm W gave a formal recommendation to Mr G in writing on 
14 January 2018. So, I think Mr G wouldve understood that it was Firm W, not David Bray, 
that was providing him with advice.
Ive thought about Mr Gs representatives submission to us that that David Bray completed 
the fact-find and that the notes it contains clearly show that it advised Mr G on the transfer 
and made a recommendation that he invest in a personal pension with P. Ive seen a copy of 
the fact-find; the fact-find was sent to us by Mr Gs representative and not David Bray. David 
Bray has told us that its process is to initially complete a hand-written fact-find that it would 
then send to Firm W which would then complete the recommendation section. The fact-find 
sent to us by Mr Gs representative is one thats been completed electronically. David Bray 
has said that the electronic fact-find on our file was not one it had completed nor did it have 
a copy which it could have sent us. 
There is no branding on the fact-find to indicate that it was produced by David Bray. I do 
note that there is a section towards the end which states: source of business  David Bray 
Ltd. I think it is reasonable to assume that this entry implies that the form was completed by 
another party (likely Firm W) and that Mr G had been referred to it by David Bray. So whilst I 
accept that the fact-find contains advice and a recommendation, Ive seen no evidence that it 
was David Bray that completed that particular section on the form and is thus responsible for 
it either. 
I think David Bray was probably hoping that Firm W would advise Mr G to transfer out of the 
BSPS so it could become the ongoing adviser and receive fees for providing such a service. 
And its possible that Mr G could have believed David Bray was advocating for the transfer of 
his benefits. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to show that David Bray gave Mr G a 
personal recommendation, either verbally or in writing. In my view, the evidence (which 
includes the suitability report and TVAS) shows that Firm W advised Mr G to transfer out of 
the BSPS, not David Bray. 
Its also possible that David Bray strayed into giving Mr G verbal advice to transfer his BSPS 
benefits, but regardless, I dont think he couldve transferred based on those interactions 
alone. Firm W issued a suitability report and a TVAS addressed to Mr G recommending that 
he transfer out of the BSPS to a flexible scheme and had to write to the trustees confirming 
that it had given Mr G that advice. David Bray produced no such documents as it did not give 
Mr G any formal advice in respect of his pension. So, Mr G couldnt have transferred out of 
BSPS based on the meetings he had with David Bray or any verbal advice he feels he was 
given  thats because he wouldnt have been able to meet the trustees requirements.
Ultimately, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Firm W gave the advice for Mr G to 
transfer out of the BSPS. And I dont think David Brays prior involvement should 
automatically make it liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by 
Firm W. It is my view that Firm W remains fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr G to 
transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr G would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm W had advised him not to transfer. Mr Gs 
representative says Mr G was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with David Bray. But on balance I dont think Mr G wouldve gone against the advice provided by 
Firm W. Mr G was an inexperienced investor and his retirement was a long way away. So, if 
Firm W had provided Mr G with clear advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it 
wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr G wouldve acted against that advice purely based on 
his earlier discussions with David Bray.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Ws advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr G to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm W is responsible for 
Mr Gs losses flowing from the transfer.
Did David Bray and Firm W embark on a joint venture?
Mr G says a joint venture existed between David Bray and Firm W to facilitate Mr G 
transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial 
loss hes suffered. 
For the reasons Ive already set out above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
David Bray liable for the advice given to Mr G to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Gs 
representative states that Mr G was verbally advised to transfer by David Bray and that the 
two firms were working together, Im satisfied Mr G transferred his BSPS benefits because 
Firm W advised him to do so, independently of David Brays involvement. So, I think Mr Gs 
losses flow from Firm Ws advice, rather than because of any interaction he had with David 
Bray. 
Mr G has also referred to a decision made by one of my colleagues which, he says, held that 
advisers without pension transfer permissions who introduced clients to advisers that had 
such permissions could be held jointly liable for the losses that arose from the advice given. 
The decision Mr G refers to relates to a situation where the advice given was closely 
interlinked; a situation that I dont think applies to this complaint. In that complaint my 
Ombudsman colleague found that firm As actions went beyond the role of introducer, 
maintaining an active role in the proceedings throughout the advice stage and assisted the 
other firm with processing the transaction. For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think the 
same can be said to apply here to David Bray. Here we are only concerned with a single 
transaction  the transfer and the advice relating to that transaction. And as I have already 
said, I have not been able to establish that David Bray gave that advice. Advising on the 
transfer was entirely Firm Ws responsibility and it was entirely open for it to advise Mr G 
against doing so. As I cant see David Bray influenced Firm W in any way I cant therefore 
fairly attribute any loss Mr G suffered to it.
David Bray did not treat Mr G fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Gs representative has suggested that David Bray didnt treat Mr G fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm W. It says that David Bray ought to have known that 
transferring out of a defined-benefit scheme was rarely the right thing to do. Instead, it said it 
endorsed the advice.
As I have said above, David Bray did not have the necessary regulatory permission to 
advise Mr G on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, David Bray could not have advised 
Mr G against transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators 
starting position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As 
David Bray didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr G to Firm W, which was 
regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think David Bray could 
reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm W, particularly as Firm W 
had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated 
adviser, it was also required to treat Mr G fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with 
suitable advice.Summary
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was David Brays advice that ultimately led 
to Mr Gs decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm W. I am also not 
persuaded that David Bray made an error or treated Mr G unfairly in the role it carried out. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require David Bray to pay compensation to Mr G or to take any further action in response 
to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman