DRN-2804779
The complaint
Mr S complains that Transunion International UK Limited reports the wrong address on his 
credit file. 
  
What happened
In January 2020 Mr S moved to a new address and in February 2020 he checked his credit 
file. Mr S found an incorrect address had been used on his Transunion credit report after he 
moved and contacted the business. Transunion agreed to amend Mr S address. But the 
required amendments werent made. 
In September 2020 Mr S checked his credit file again and found Transunion still held the 
wrong address for him. Mr S complained and pointed out the incorrect information had been 
reported to various organisations, including HMRC. Transunion upheld Mr S complaint and 
apologised. Transunion asked Mr S for evidence to show the impact of its error on him. 
Transunion said it would request the necessary amendments. Later, Transunion offered 
Mr S £25. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Hes told us that the issue on his credit file may 
have impacted car insurance quotes, his credit standing with other businesses and was 
reported to important organisations like HMRC. Our investigator upheld Mr S complaint and 
asked Transunion to ensure the correct address is reported on his credit file. They also 
asked Transunion to raise a dispute with a business that reports information on Mr S credit 
file and pay him £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Transunion didnt accept but didnt say why. Mr S didnt accept either and advised he didnt 
think the level of compensation was fair. Mr S also said incorrect address information was 
still being reported. Mr S reiterated that he was concerned his car insurance premiums had 
been impacted. And Mr S sent us information from HMRC that showed the incorrect address 
was recorded on its systems. As neither party accepted the investigators findings, this case 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear something has gone wrong in the way Mr S address is recorded by Transunion. 
And I can see that despite promising to amend the address after Mr S contacted it in 
February 2020, the error remains. I agree that the service Transunion has provided has 
been poor and that it shouldve corrected the error on the first instance of Mr S raising it with 
them. I can understand how frustrating its been for Mr S that the address error has gone 
unresolved for so long. 
I agree with the investigator that, as part of the resolution of this complaint, Transunion will 
have to amend his credit file to reflect the correct address. Transunions response to the 
investigators findings didnt raise any technical concerns regarding the amendment 
recommended. And its clearly important that the correct information about Mr S address is 
recorded. 
Mr S has complained that his accounts with another business have been impacted by the 
address error. But the screenshots of his credit file dont show a reduction in borrowing 
limits, only his account balance. That being said, our investigator also asked Transunion to 
raise a dispute with the business in question to ensure the notifications reported on his credit 
file are accurate. Im satisfied thats a reasonable way to resolve this part of Mr S complaint. 
Mr S has told us hes concerned that his car insurance premiums increased as a result of the 
error on his address. Whilst Ive read all the information Mr S has sent us, I havent seen 
anything that shows his premiums were more expensive as a result of Transunions error. I 
appreciate Mr S concerns, but I can only make an award if I can verify a loss to the 
consumer. In this case, no evidence has been provided that shows Mr S was charged more 
as a direct result of Transunions mistake, so Im not awarding compensation for Mr S 
insurance premiums. 
I can see Mr S has been in extensive communication with HMRC and is concerned that the 
address error is now recorded on its systems. I can also see Mr S is concerned about the 
impact this issue will have on his tax returns. HMRCs response says it has updated its 
systems with Mr S correct address. But it also confirms its not possible to remove the 
incorrect address. Its clear Mr S has been in extensive communication with HMRC about 
this issue. Again, I havent seen any evidence that the address error has led to a financial 
loss for Mr S. But Ive taken on board the level of trouble and upset caused to Mr S by 
having to contact HMRC about these issues as a result of the address error. 
Mr S has asked us to refer this matter to the Information Commissioners Office to see 
whether Transunion broke the data protection rules. If Mr S feels theres been a breach of 
the rules, the Information Commissioners Offices website contains details of how he can 
report the matter directly. I leave Mr S to decide whether thats a step he wishes to take and 
raise the issue directly. 
Ive considered everything that both Mr S and Transunion have told us about this complaint. 
Ive paid particularly close attention to the information Mr S has given us concerning the 
impact of the incorrect address and error Transunion made. Having done so, I recently 
asked out investigator to contact both parties to let them know that I intended to increase the 
award for the trouble and upset caused by the error from £150 to £300. In my view, £300 
more fairly reflects the long standing nature of the address issue Mr S has raised and the 
trouble and upset caused. As neither Transunuion or Mr S responded with new comments 
for me to consider, Im going to proceed with the increased award of £300.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Transunion International UK Limited to 
settle as follows: 
- Pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any compensation 
already paid)
- Amend Mr S credit file to remove all traces of the incorrect address and ensure his 
correct address is recorded going forward
- Raise a dispute with the business named in the investigators findings to ensure 
information being recorded in relation to notifications is accurate  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman