DRN-4298032
The complaint
Mr S complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds valuation of his car following his claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged in an accident and Tesco decided that it was uneconomical to 
repair. They offered him an amount for his cars market value, and later increased that offer. 
However they deducted Mr Ss policy excess and another amount for salvage value because 
Mr S wanted to keep the car. 
Mr S thought that his car was worth much more. The investigator didnt recommend that his 
complaint should be upheld. She thought that Tesco had reached a fair valuation offer 
having followed our guidance. Mr S didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator said, Mr Ss car insurance policy requires Tesco to pay his cars market 
value. It says on page 5 that market value is:
 The cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened. 
The investigator also explained to Mr S what our approach was regarding complaints about 
car valuations. We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider 
whether or not the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the 
valuations in the trade guides. The prices in those guides are linked to likely monthly 
nationwide sales figures and although valuing a car is not an exact science, we believe they 
give a reasonable and independent guide and take account of a number of factors including 
mileage, condition, and any extra features. Overall, we find them more persuasive than 
adverts. 
In assessing Mr Ss cars market value, Tesco used the valuations from two trade guides, 
and valued his cars market value at £2,360. They deducted his policy excess and salvage 
value but added £70 for the cars optional extras.  
The investigator checked that market value offer against other guides. Some did not provide 
valuation data due to Mr Ss cars age and high mileage. However the investigator used two 
guides to value it in accordance with our guidance, taking into account its model, additional 
features, and the actual mileage at the time of the cars loss. Those two guides gave values 
of £1,979 and £2,360. 
As the investigator explained, we would normally see the average of those two amounts as 
being a fair settlement. But Tesco offered the higher of the two values.  And, as Tesco 
followed our established process with regard to assessing market value, the investigator 
thought that was fair. 
Mr S still felt that Tesco had lied to him and treated him badly. He felt that they had 
pressured him to accept their market value offer right away. However I dont think its 
necessarily unfair if Tesco wanted to resolve the open claim quickly, as we would expect an 
insurer to deal with a claim within a reasonable time. And although Mr S didnt accept the 
offer, Tesco still offered him an interim amount, and I think that was reasonable. 
Mr S also felt that it was unfair for Tesco to calculate his premium on one value for his car 
when he took out the policy, only to offer him a lower value when he claimed. However 
premium pricing is dependent on a number of factors, and thats a separate issue. Whats 
relevant here is what the policy terms above says about market value as that determines 
what Tesco must pay out on a total loss claim. When Mr S took out the policy, he agreed to 
those terms. 
Mr S also thought it was unfair that when Tesco increased the market value offer from their 
first offer the salvage amount went up too. Tesco explained thats because a cars salvage 
value is related to its market value. So when the market value offer increased it meant that 
the salvage value was higher too. Tescos salvage price-setting is a commercial matter for 
them, in which we cant intervene, and it is not disclosable. However having seen Tescos 
explanation of that Im satisfied that in applying it they treated Mr S as they would any other 
customer. So I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably there. 
   
Mr S felt his car was worth more than Tesco had offered. He said that his inquiries within the 
industry including used car dealers showed that cars of the same type and same age as his 
were being priced anything up to £7,000 or £8,000, and that this was because of the state of 
the car market at the time his car was damaged. He said that due to the combination of 
several factors related to the pandemic and the Ukraine war there was higher demand for 
used cars and this meant their prices went up. He has shown us a press article and online 
video in which he said trade guide experts accepted that their guide prices were out of date 
and out of touch with what was happening in the market. But Ive considered those carefully 
and dont think they do show that. While car industry spokespersons in the video do discuss 
the changes in market prices at the time, they dont confirm that the trade guides failed to 
reflect those changes. We think that the guides have factored in market-related increases in 
second-hand car sales in the last few years. 
As regards what Mr S says is his own research about what his car should be worth, he 
hasnt provided persuasive evidence of that from dealers or from adverts. And in any event, 
we still think that advertised prices allow for subjective profit and room for negotiation, and 
dont determine what a car actually sold for. As I explained above, the guides Tesco used 
are independent industry trade guides and we consider it reasonable for insurers to use 
them and that they are more persuasive than adverts. 
I can see its frustrating for Mr S that his car was damaged, but taking all of the above into 
account, Im satisfied that Tesco used a fair and established process to assess Mr Ss cars 
market value and that the amount they offered him was fair. 
So I dont think that Tesco did anything wrong. I expect Tesco to pay Mr S the £2,360 market 
value amount plus the amount for optional extras, but less Tescos deductions for excess 
and salvage retention, and also less any interim amount Tesco have already paid him. 
However I dont require them to do anything more. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
