DRN-2294123
The complaint
Mrs C complains that two sofas she bought from Studio Retail Limited are not of satisfactory 
quality. She relies on the rights she believes she has under the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
What happened
In August 2017 Mrs C bought two recliner three-seater sofas from Studio. She said they 
were delivered in September and despite an issue with the delivery cost she was happy with 
the sofas. More recently however Mrs C said she noticed that faults have appeared where 
the headrest is sewn to the backrest. She said the stitching has come away or the material 
has split, and the stuffing can be seen. She said this fault has occurred on each back rest.
Mrs C said the backrests came separately from the seat base, there are three backrests on  
each sofa. She said these faults may have been there for some time, but they cannot be 
seen unless the seat is reclined, which is when she is facing the wrong way. She said she 
could not be sure how long the faults have been there. She complained to Studio. Studio 
considered that the faults were as a result of wear and tear and the sofas were no longer 
covered under warranty. It offered to collect the sofas and provide either credit or a refund as 
a gesture of goodwill. Mrs C said she would not be able to afford to buy new sofas because 
of the price difference. She asked for Studio to either send an upholsterer to fix them or to 
replace the backrests. Studio said it was unable to do this, but it suggested Mrs C could 
provide two written quotes for the repairs to the sofas. It said on receipt of these it
would then be able to advise further.
Mrs C said she couldn't do this as it would cost her money to get the estimates which she 
couldn't afford because she had a limited income. Studio reiterated it could still arrange to 
collect the sofas and refund fully the price Mrs C paid for them, again as a goodwill gesture. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to this service.
The investigator concluded that there wasn't enough evidence to suggest the sofas were not 
of satisfactory quality at the point of sale or that they weren't durable. Mrs C disagreed and 
the complaint came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 28 April 2020. In summary I 
said:
The CRA says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 'the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory'. This includes a product's durability. Mrs C has said 
Studio declined Mrs C's request to send someone to examine the faults due to the 
geographical location of the business. From looking at the photos of the damage and 
reading Mrs C's testimony it does appear the stitching is falling apart, or the material is 
tearing at the seam at the same point across all the headrests. So, it does seem possible it's 
a problem with a failing of the stitching and/or the robustness of the material at the seam. I 
considered it likely that wear and tear would occur in places on the sofas which experience 
the most use and movement. Mrs C has said she lives alone, and the sofas have not 
experienced the normal wear and tear of a family. I've no reason to doubt her testimony. It  
seemed to me unlikely wear and tear would affect only the headrests and all at the same 
time.
I do think a reasonable person would expect stitching on such sofas to last longer than two 
years. Having considered the photos, it appears they do not have the durability a reasonable 
person would expect of such sofas. So, I was satisfied they were not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale.
Although Studio did not accept the sofas were not of satisfactory quality, they did offer to put 
things right for Mrs C by offering to take the sofas away and issue a refund, and also 
requesting repair quotes from Mrs C. But I thought it must go further.
Mrs C has said she is disabled and cannot be left in the position where she doesn't have 
anywhere to sit. So, I can understand why this situation has been difficult for her. She said 
she also cannot afford the additional cost of the replacement sofas. The original sofas were 
priced at £262.99 each (total £525.98) and similar ones on the website are more expensive.
As Studio had already declined to repair the sofas, I thought it reasonable that it replaces 
them and to pay Mrs C £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs C accepted my provisional decision but commented that it appeared the sofas were no 
longer for sale on the website. Studio did not accept my conclusions and provided some 
additional commentary.
I issued a second provisional decision on 2 September in which I adjusted the remedy. 
Studio said the onus was on Mrs C to provide evidence of the faults in the form of an 
upholsterers report. The Act isnt specific as to what evidence is required. While Mrs C 
hasnt provided a report, I considered the evidence she had provided and I could see from 
the photos the stitching is falling apart or the material is tearing at the seam. I remained 
satisfied that there was a fault with the sofas.
Studio also said that it had no way of knowing how Mrs C used the sofas, with respect to 
durability, so these comments should be excluded from my findings. Mrs C hasnt 
complained about the general wear and tear of the sofas. Her complaint is specifically 
related to the seams on the head rests and where, Im satisfied there is a fault.
Studio said it did not decline to repair the sofas and that Mrs C declined to send it an 
upholsterers report. While the burden of proof within the CRA lies with Mrs C I must 
consider what I think is a reasonable expectation of the consumer in these circumstances. 
Im satisfied Mrs C provided photos of the fault to Studio and I still considered this 
reasonable evidence to illustrate the fault.
Mrs C questioned whether the sofas were still available, and Studio confirmed they are not. 
In some circumstances where I believe it to be fair and reasonable, I can consider alternative 
remedies. I think in this situation it would be appropriate for Mrs C to keep the sofas and for 
Studio to compensate her with 50% of the cost, £262.99. I think this is appropriate given that 
the sofas are no longer available for sale.
Mrs C accepted my second provisional decision. Studio disagreed and Ive responded to its 
comments below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I believe my second provisional decisions still stands. Studio said photographs taken two years after an item was sold is not evidence that it was 
faulty at the point of sale. It asked me to consider the CRA which, it said, clearly stipulates 
the onus being on the customer to prove the item was faulty at point of sale. Studio said it 
did not believe Mrs C had done this. Im afraid I dont agree with this, and, as I have 
explained above, there is no specific requirement in the CRA as to what constitutes 
evidence. 
Studio went on to say that its terms and conditions are clearly laid out and its warranty is 
generous. It reiterated Mrs C did not report anything wrong with the sofas until two years 
after the event and that it did everything it could to try and assist her, as a gesture of 
goodwill, but she rejected every offer.
The CRA states:
The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects 
(among others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods 
(e)durability.
Durability means the goods must be sufficiently durable, that is, they should be made to last 
a reasonable period of time. I think its reasonable to expect the stitching on sofas to last 
longer than two years. It would also be reasonable to expect that in the case of durability the 
fault, in this case the fabric coming apart or the stitching failing, may not show itself until 
sometime after the goods were delivered. And so just because the fault was not visible at the 
time of sale does not mean the root cause wasnt present at that time. 
Studio has suggested I havent been impartial when reaching my conclusions. I would like to 
reassure Studio that I have carefully considered the evidence and reached a conclusion 
which I believe is fair and reasonable and without bias. I have considered the CRA, 
specifically in relation to durability, and I dont agree with Studio that the fault is as a result of 
general wear and tear. 
Putting things right
I agree that Studio did offer to help Mrs C as a gesture of goodwill. But as Im persuaded the 
sofas were not of satisfactory quality, by this I mean the stitching is not as durable as a 
reasonable person would expect, Im instructing Studio to go further in putting this right, by 
paying 50% of the cost of the two sofas and £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Studio Retail Limited must:
Pay Mrs C 50% of the cost of the two sofas, £262.99 and
Pay Mrs C £100 in compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman