DRN-3971949
The complaint
Mr C complains that First Response Finance Ltd (FRFL) irresponsibly granted him two hire 
purchase agreements he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2017, Mr C acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
FRFL. Mr C was required to make 48 monthly repayments of around £242. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £11,603. Mr C settled this agreement in March 
2018.
In May 2018, Mr C acquired a used car financed by another hire purchase agreement from 
FRFL. Mr C paid a deposit of £300 and was required to make 36 monthly repayments of 
around £230. The total repayable under the agreement was around £8,587. 
Mr C says that FRFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable and referred to the information contained 
in his credit report at the time. Mr C said he had to re-mortgage his property in order to repay 
the lending. FRFL said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included receiving 
proof of Mr Cs income, undertaking credit checks and income and expenditure 
assessments. It says Mr Cs credit report highlighted some issues which were then 
discussed with Mr C. It said that based on its checks the lending was affordable. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought FRFL didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr C didnt agree and said he thought his personal information hadnt been taken into 
account. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FRFL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the two finance agreements, I think FRFL gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr C about his ability to repay. I say this because it 
completed a credit check, the outcome of which was discussed with Mr C. It also received 
proof of Mr Cs income and asked about his expenses. However, just because I think it 
carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending 
decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
2017 agreement
I note the comments Mr C has made about his credit file and FRFL has noted that there was 
adverse information identified through its credit checks. Having looked at the results of 
FRLFs credit check I think it reasonable that it asked Mr C about the financial issues he had 
previously experienced. Adverse information on a credit file doesnt mean that lending 
shouldnt be provided - and I note FRFLs position in the market as a specialised lender - but 
it does mean that further checks may be appropriate and in this case Mr C was asked about 
the reasons for his adverse credit history and I find it reasonable his responses were relied 
on. Affordability checks then took place which is what we would expect.
Before providing the finance, FRFL asked Mr C about his employment and verified his 
income. Mr C declared his monthly income as £2,500 and his payslip for the month previous 
to the agreement supported this. The payslip provided Mr Cs income to date for the tax year 
and this gave a monthly net income of around £2,476 and this amount was used in FRFLs 
assessment. FRFL asked Mr C about his housing costs, and these were in line with what 
FRFL had expected given his circumstances. This amount, along with the amount identified 
from is credit check and an estimate of Mr Cs other living costs was included in its 
assessment. 
FRFL assessed the affordability taking into account the household income and expenses 
and this gave household disposable income of around £990. Taking a different approach 
and considering Mr Cs income against a share of the household expenses (he explained he 
paid half the mortgage, and it is reasonable to accept other household costs would be split) 
results in a monthly disposable income for Mr C of around £930. Therefore, both approaches 
suggest the agreement repayments of around £242 were affordable.
Given the size of the repayments compared to Mr Cs income and the other information 
provided, I find these checks were proportionate and as they showed the lending to be 
affordable, I do not find I can say that FRFL was wrong to provide the finance.
2018 agreement
As noted above, we would expect further checks to take place where there are issues 
identified through a credit check. Before this loan was provided, FRFL asked Mr C about the 
adverse information recorded and this was explained. As this was Mr Cs second agreement, 
FRFL had his payment history from the first agreement which showed he had maintained his 
repayments. Given the credit information gathered I think the additional checks were 
reasonable and I do not find the outcome of these meant the finance shouldnt have been 
provided.  
The repayments on the 2018 agreement were lower than the repayments on the 2017 
agreement which Mr C had maintained. FRFL verified Mr Cs monthly income to be around 
£2,683 and it has provided a copy of his payslip and a P60 to support this. Mr C was again 
asked about his housing costs and amounts were included for his credit commitments 
(including an amount for repayments on a loan Mr C had said had been repaid but was still 
showing on his credit report) and an estimated amount for his other living costs. Based on 
the household income and expenses, FRFL found a disposable household income of around 
£1,075. This suggested the agreement was affordable. Taking the approach of assessing 
the repayment based on Mr Cs income and his share of expenses gave a similar disposable 
monthly income. Based on the monthly repayments under the agreement being around 
£230, I do not find I can say that FRFL was wrong to consider this agreement affordable to 
Mr C.I know my decision will be a disappointment to Mr C and I am very sorry to hear of his loss 
and I do not underestimate the impact this will have had. However, for me to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be able to say that FRFL did something wrong or treated Mr C 
unfairly. As, in this case, I find FRFL did carry out adequate checks and these suggested the 
lending was affordable, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman