DRN-4112268
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the problems he encountered trying to comply with American 
Express Services Europe Limiteds Knowing Your Customer (KYC) process. He is also 
dissatisfied with the way that it dealt with his complaint. In addition, he said that he hadnt 
received a response to a subject access request (SAR) that he made.
What happened
Our investigator has previously set out the timeline of events in some detail and so I dont 
intend to repeat it all again here.
In summary, Amex first contacted Mr T about the KYC process in March 2022. He was 
instructed to answer some questions and upload ID documents via a link to an online portal. 
From 1 July 2022 he tried numerous times to upload the documents but constantly received 
error messages at the point of submission. He was in regular phone contact with Amex 
about the problems he was experiencing and told it that he had dyslexia and autism and so 
needed additional support. He was subsequently told that he could send the information by 
post or upload it to the general document centre.  
On 9 September 2022 he received a message from Amex giving him 15 days notice to 
provide the required documents. However, his card was blocked later the same day, which 
caused Mr T many difficulties. It was then blocked again on 26 September 2022 and 
problems persisted beyond that point. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that Amex pay £500 
compensation, to which it agreed. 
In relation to the SAR, Amex had responded within the necessary timeframe on 4 January 
2023. Mr T then found the email but couldnt open it because the link had expired. Therefore, 
our investigator also recommended that Amex should re-send the email to Mr T.
Mr T disagrees with the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties that Ive read and considered everything on 
file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. 
And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because 
Ive focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we 
operate under.
KYC process
Mr T has said that as he is disabled, Amex was required to make reasonable adjustments. 
And because it failed to do so, it was in breach of the Equality Act 2010. In deciding this 
complaint and when looking at what is fair and reasonable, I have of course taken account of 
the relevant law. But I dont have the power to make a finding on whether or not Amex have 
breached the Equality Act 2010. If Mr T wants a finding on this, he would need to go to court.
Amex says it hasnt been able to identify any widespread technical issues with its KYC 
portal. Ive listened to the frequent calls that Mr T made to Amex in which he expresses 
frustration at the number of times hes tried to complete the process. Its clear that he is 
reasonably technically savvy, having tried to problem solve the issue by using different 
browsers etc. Hed also asked other people to try on his behalf. Ive no reason to doubt Mr 
Ts version of events and so, on balance, Im satisfied that Amexs systems probably were at 
fault.
Mr Ts disabilities didnt prevent him from using the KYC portal, its the fact that the portal 
wasnt working properly that was the problem. But I appreciate what he has said about his 
autism causing him to become more frustrated by the technical issues. And I agree that, 
once that issue was identified, Amex needed to offer him an alternative means of completing 
the process. 
Amex said that Mr T could send in the documentation by post. In normal circumstances Id 
say this was a reasonable response. However, because Mr T was abroad for long periods 
working, this wasnt an easy option for him.
Amex should have identified that Mr T had a very particular set of circumstances that was 
making it difficult for him to complete the KYC process. It would also have been very clear to 
Amex that Mr T was trying hard to get matters sorted but was unable to. So, someone 
should have taken ownership of the case, but this didnt happen. 
Mr T was never able to speak directly to anyone in the KYC team. He was sent generic 
messages that didnt always explain what information was still outstanding. He was 
sometimes told over the phone that everything was in order, only to receive messages later 
saying that information was still required. Although he was told that he could upload 
documents to the regular document submission centre rather than the KYC portal, the KYC 
team didnt have general access to the document centre and didnt coordinate checking to 
see if Mr T had uploaded anything. And, as already mentioned, the card was blocked with no 
notice.
Im satisfied that Mr T received poor service from Amex and that he suffered detriment as a 
result. From listening to the phone calls, its clear that Mr T is sometimes very distressed by 
the lack of progress he has been able to make and that the matter affected his health. In 
addition, his card was blocked on 9 September 2022 whilst he was away on a business trip. 
This caused him embarrassment when his card was declined. He couldnt buy food, he 
cancelled a business dinner due to not being able to pay and he was worried that he 
wouldnt be able to check out of his hotel the following day. His mothers supplementary card 
was also blocked leading to further distress. 
Complaint handlingMr T says that Amex failed to register his initial complaint. Hed asked for a manager to call 
him back on more than one occasion but that hadnt happened. A complaint was raised on 
28 July 2022 and was concluded on 11 October 2022 when Amex issued its final response 
letter. However, Mr T didnt receive this as Amex sent it to an incorrect email address and Mr 
T had to chase for it.
Mr Ts main dissatisfaction is that the complaint was dealt with by an inexperienced 
complaint handler who didnt address all of the specific points that Mr T had made. Ive 
listened to some calls where Mr T makes it clear that he wants the whole chain of events, 
and the poor service hed received along the way, to be considered. But the final response 
letter basically says the complaint wasnt upheld because the correct KYC procedure had 
been followed.  I can understand why Mr T felt that Amex hadnt really looked at his 
complaint.
Overall, I dont think Amex acted fairly when dealing with the KYC process or Mr Ts 
subsequent complaint. 
When it comes to compensation, awards made by this service are more modest than Mr T 
might hope or expect. I understand that he thinks he should receive considerably more than 
the £500 recommended by our investigator. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr T has 
told us about the impact that this had on him, particularly to his mental and physical health 
and the inconvenience in having to take time off etc. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr T 
and what he was put through. But based on the available evidence, I agree with our 
investigator that £500 is a reasonable and proportionate amount to compensate Mr T for his 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and require American Express Services Europe 
Limited to pay Mr T £500 compensation. It should also re-send the SAR email to Mr T if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman