DRN-1767162
The complaint
Mrs Ts complaint is about charges deducted between 2013 and 2018 from her Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) by SW Wealth Limited (SW)  later acquired by Save & Invest 
(Financial Planning) Limited. She disputes them and seeks a refund. Servicing of the ISA 
has since been transferred away from SW.
What happened
Mrs T says she was not informed that the periodic valuation reports received from SW were 
subject to the charges; that had she known this she would have cancelled the service (for 
provision of the reports) because she received the same information directly from the ISA 
provider; that she also did not need to keep the ISA under review, it is the same now as it 
was in 2013 because she never intended to change or add to it; that, between 2013 and 
2018, there was no indication of the charges because they were deducted directly from her 
ISA (and concealed in this respect), they were not disclosed or agreed at the outset and SW 
never provided any statements or invoices for them; and that she first learnt about them 
upon enquiry in 2018.
A similar complaint has been made in relation to Mrs Ts husband  and in relation to SWs 
service to him  but this decision is limited to addressing only her complaint.
SWs response on the matter was presented in relation to Mrs Ts complaint and her 
husbands. In as far as is relevant to Mrs Ts complaint, its position is mainly as follows:
An ongoing advice service was agreed with Mrs T.
Due to matters related to its acquisition, it is unable to locate all documentation 
relevant to Mrs T, the advice given to her and the ongoing advice service given to 
her. However, such documentation is likely to have existed in 2013, likely to have 
been given to her and would have included information about its fees. In addition, it 
was the ISA providers policy and responsibility  subsequent to the Retail 
Distribution Review (RDR) in that year which replaced trail commission with adviser 
charges  to provide her with information about adviser fee deductions and it 
believes the statements she received from the provider did this. As such, she would 
have known about the ongoing adviser fee deductions.
Furthermore, there is evidence of a service agreement that was sent to her in 2015 
which contained information about the ongoing adviser fee. 
It was not a requirement to send clients invoices or statements related to the ongoing 
adviser fee given that it was deducted from the investment and not invoiced directly 
to the client.
The service involved more than the provision of valuation reports. It provided an 
investment review by its adviser. Paper based reviews, relying upon assumptions, 
were sent annually to Mrs T and her husband (jointly)  they were based on 
assumptions because Mrs T and her husband did not communicate any change in 
circumstances  and the adviser would have been prepared to hold a meeting to 
extend this review service if a request for a meeting had ever been made.
Its reviews offered the option of meetings which Mrs T chose not to exercise.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He noted mainly as follows:
There is no documentary evidence of the advice given to Mrs T or of the transfer of 
servicing her ISA, so no evidence of the ongoing advice service (and fee) being 
mentioned in such advice; and the 2015 service agreement SW referred to is 
unsigned.
Evidence shows that all engagements with SW were conducted by Mrs Ts husband.
He was not persuaded that Mrs T knowingly agreed to an ongoing advice service or 
that she understood the nature of such a service.
The unsigned 2015 service agreement says the following were included in the 
service  an annual financial review (and personal review update request), 
independent review and analysis of investments, recommendations based on both, 
implementation of recommendations and personal tax planning.
He was not persuaded that the service would have been the type Mrs T would have 
agreed to given that the information she wanted about the ISA was already available 
to her from the ISA provider.
SW should compensate Mrs T  based on a comparison between her ISAs 
performance and how it would have performed without the ongoing fee deductions  
and should pay her £200 for the trouble and upset caused to her.
SW disagreed with this outcome. The matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and on the balance of available evidence, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I 
have reached this conclusion mainly because there is a lack of evidence of SW informing 
her in 2013 (and up to 2018) about the ongoing advice service, about the fee attached to 
that service and a lack of evidence that it was a service she sought, agreed to, used or was 
aware of. 
This does not suggest that SW did not present itself as available to deliver the service during 
the relevant period or that it did not seek to engage with Mrs T for this purpose. As I address 
below, it did both. However, because it appears that Mrs T was unaware of the services 
existence and did not need it, the unfortunate outcome was that both parties appear to have 
been at cross purposes. SW was essentially presenting itself to deliver a service that Mrs T 
did not know existed and did not need  and, in the absence of evidence that Mrs T agreed 
to the service, it would not be fair and reasonable for her to incur payment for it.
I too acknowledge the lack of documentary evidence (from 2013 and thereafter) to show that 
SW brought Mrs Ts attention to the ongoing advice service and/or ongoing advice fee  that 
is, until she became aware of the latter in 2018 and put a stop to it. SW says the ISA 
providers statements to her included reference to the ongoing advice fee. I have not seen 
copies of these statements, but I consider it plausible that they referred to the fee  it is not 
uncommon for such statements to refer to fee deductions. However, on balance, I do not 
consider that Mrs T noticed this. It is equally plausible that she would have stopped the 
deductions earlier upon such awareness  as she (and her husband) did in 2018, upon 
gaining the same awareness.SW could argue that liability rests with Mrs T for not noticing any reference to the deductions 
in the ISA providers statements. I can understand the argument, but the point remains that 
there is no evidence the service and fee were ever agreed by her. That remains a key issue 
and, in the circumstances of this case, I am not persuaded to criticise her for not looking for 
or noticing a fee deduction (in the statements) she had not agreed to and did not expect to 
exist. 
SW wrote to Mrs T (and her husband) annually and provided the paper-based reviews it has 
mentioned. There is ample evidence of this. The correspondence is somewhat bland, given 
that none of them feature new information or updates from Mrs T (or her husband) and they 
all appear to be based on assumptions rooted in her (or their) circumstances in 2013. With 
the exception of 2017 (which I address below), evidence shows no reciprocal engagement 
from Mrs T (or her husband) through the relevant years and/or in response to the reviews; 
and they did not share updates on their investments with SW. Essentially, there appears to 
have been nothing for SW to review each year other than the circumstances as they were in 
2013. In addition, it appears that Mrs T (and her husband) never asked for a review meeting.
This establishes that SW was available to deliver the ongoing advice service, at least in 
terms of the paper-based annual reviews it conducted, but it also establishes that Mrs T did 
not consider that the annual review documents were part of such a service  or that such a 
service was at her disposal. If she was so aware, she would have either used the service  
which she did not  or, if she did not need it, she would have terminated it at the time  
which she also did not. The annual review correspondence would have been reminders to 
do one or the other. The fact that she did neither, supports the conclusion  and her 
explanation  that she was unaware the correspondence was part of an ongoing advice 
service and unaware that she was paying for such a service.
I have access to the documents held for Mrs Ts husbands complaint and I went through 
them for documents that might be relevant to her complaint. Within them, SW provided 
evidence of a 2017 update (on circumstances) document provided by the couple and signed 
by them. The investigator put a query in this respect to her (and her husband) and they 
explained that they do not recall the document, but they possibly considered it, at the time, to 
be a way in which SW sought to update its records.
Given that there is no evidence of engagement from Mrs T in 2014, 2015 or 2016, in 
response to the paper-based reviews, I do not consider this evidence from 2017 enough to 
suggest that she was engaging with the ongoing advice service. It appears to have been an 
isolated event, the reason she provided an update in this year is not clear but that does not 
automatically mean she was engaged in such a service. On balance, I consider that the lack 
of engagement in the three previous years outweighs what happened in 2017.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that Mrs T asked for, 
needed, agreed to or was aware of SWs ongoing advice service; and I do not consider that 
she agreed to pay for that service; so it is not fair for her to have incurred fees for that 
service; she should be compensated in this respect; and I agree with the investigators view 
that she should receive £200 for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Putting things right
The ongoing advice fees were deducted directly from Mrs Ts ISA, so a simple refund of the 
total fees deducted does not quite provide fair compensation. The deductions affected the 
returns from the investments in the ISA  that is, they reduced capital in the ISA and the 
reduction would otherwise have been invested. Fair compensation for Mrs T is to calculate 
how her ISA would have performed without the deductions, compare that to how it performed with the deductions and then compensate her if there is a negative outcome. I 
appreciate that SW no longer services the ISA so Mrs T should provide it with information  
and/or access to the ISAs performance  required to calculate and apply the compensation 
ordered below. SW must:
Calculate the performance of the Mrs Ts ISA (with the ongoing advice fee 
deductions) between the date on which SW began to service the ISA and the date on 
which the ongoing advice fee deduction from the ISA was terminated. This would 
amount to the ISAs actual value.
Calculate the performance Mrs Ts ISA would have had without the ongoing advice 
fee deductions between the date on which SW began to service the ISA and the date 
on which the ongoing advice fee deduction from the ISA was terminated. This would 
amount to the ISAs fair value.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, SW must pay Mrs T the difference as 
compensation. It must also pay interest on the compensation at the rate of 8% simple 
per year from the date immediately after termination of the ongoing advice fee 
deduction to the date of compensation settlement.
As the investigator suggested, if it is possible for SW to pay the compensation back 
into Mrs Ts ISA it should do so. Otherwise it should be paid directly to her.
Pay Mrs T £200 for the trouble and upset caused to her.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I order SW Wealth Limited (under 
Save & Invest (Financial Planning) Limited) to pay her compensation as set out above, and 
to provide her with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman