DRN-3521489
The complaint
Ms K has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her fee-paying 
Additions, Additions Plus and Premier Life accounts in May 1996, March 2007 and April 
2009 respectively. She has also complained that her account was changed to include Tech, 
Home and Travel Plus Packs in 2015.
Ms K says she did not agree to any of these accounts or Packs.
What happened
Barclays said that Ms K complained too late for our service to be able to consider her 
complaint about the Premier Life account. It did not object to us looking into the Additions 
account or the migration of the account to a fee-free account with the fee-paying packs 
included. 
Barclays also offered to refund the difference between the cost of the Additions Plus account 
and the cost of the Additions account, plus 8% simple interest, less tax, on those fees. This 
offer was to put Ms K back into the position she wouldve been in had her account not been 
upgraded from an Additions account to an Additions Plus account.
An ombudsman at our service considered whether we are able to consider the complaint 
about the sale of the Premier Life account, and he concluded that we couldnt. Also, as 
Barclays has already upheld Ms Ks complaint about the sale of the Additions Plus account, 
that just leaves the sale of the Additions account (and therefore whether a bigger refund is 
warranted) and also the migration that took place in 2015 to be considered.
One of our adjudicators did consider whether either of these changes to the account were 
mis-sold and she didnt think that they were. Ms K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to consider her complaint.
This decision will therefore only address Ms Ks complaint about the sale of the Additions 
account in 1996 and the migration of her account in 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I should also explain that where matters are 
in dispute and evidence is lacking, I must decide what I think most likely happened, based 
on everything that is available. And having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Additions account
Ms K says that she didnt agree to a fee-paying Additions account. However, given that the 
sale took place over 25 years ago, its not particularly surprising that Barclays has very little 
information available from the time.
From the outset, I have to say that I dont find Ms Ks testimony particularly plausible  that is 
that she was sold, or her bank account was upgraded to different packaged accounts, on 
three separate occasions, all apparently without her consent. Nevertheless, I have 
considered what Ms K has said and compared this with what I do know about the account at 
the time.
From what I understand, in 1996 the Additions account cost £5 per month, and included a 
£100 interest free overdraft facility. Barclays also says that the account offered a lower rate 
of interest (compared to what was charged on standard fee-free accounts) on balances 
above this amount  up to the agreed limit. I also understand that at the time, Barclays 
charged a £5 monthly overdraft usage fee on fee-free accounts, whenever an account went 
overdrawn at any point in each month. However, I understand the £5 monthly overdraft 
usage fee was not applied to the Additions account. This basically meant that the Additions 
account would potentially work out cheaper for an accountholder than a standard fee-free 
account, if they regularly used their overdraft.
The earliest statements that Barclays have been able to provide are from 1998. And these 
show that Ms K was regularly using her overdraft every month, throughout 1998 and for a 
number of years after. Based on this information, I think its likely that Ms K was operating 
her account in a similar fashion, or at least made regular use of her overdraft, prior to 1998 
too. 
So in the circumstances, I think its more likely that Ms K agreed to the Additions account 
because she was able to benefit from the overdraft features that it provided, rather than it 
being the case that it was just added to Ms Ks account without her consent. I say this 
especially because, due to how long ago the sale took place, I think its just as likely (if not 
more so) that Ms K did agree to the sale, but now doesnt remember doing so, rather than it 
being the case that she was provided with the fee-paying Additions account without her 
consent. 
Given all of this, when deciding what I think was most likely to have happened, Im not able 
to say that the Additions account was mis-sold. I therefore dont think a further refund of 
account fees is warranted in this case.
Migration from Premier Life to a free account with fee-paying Packs
In 2015 Barclays decided to withdraw the Premier Life account. When it did this, it migrated 
all Premier Life account holders to either a standard fee-free account, of if they met the 
criteria at the time, to a fee-free Premier Banking account. In Ms Ks case, her account was 
changed to a standard fee-free current account as she didnt meet the criteria for Premier 
Banking.
Regardless of which account the Premier Life was migrated to, Barclays also added on 
Home, Tech and Travel Plus Packs to the account, but gave all affected account holders the 
choice to opt out of these Packs being added, if they no longer needed the cover they 
provided. I understand Barclays did this to ensure that similar insurance cover was provided 
for those who were relying on the cover provided by the Premier Life account.
Ms K says that she never agreed to these Packs being added to her account, so says they 
were mis-sold. However, as the change to the account in 2015 was a migration, rather than 
the sale of a new account, I think that it was not unreasonable for Barclays to do this on an opt out, rather than opt in basis. I say this as the Packs were essentially introduced to 
replace similar existing insurance benefits that account holders were already paying for 
under the Premier Life account.
Barclays was able to make such changes to the Premier Life account - but only if it gave 
sufficient notice to all affected account holders. This was to ensure account holders had 
sufficient information and time to understand what changes would be made to their account. 
And to ensure account holders understood what options were available to them. I have 
therefore considered whether Barclays gave Ms K sufficient notice of the migration that took 
place on her account.
Barclays wrote to Ms K in January 2015 to inform her that she no longer met the 
requirements of Premier banking and that her account will be changing in November 2015. 
This letter explained that her account will be changed to a fee-free account. And in terms of 
the insurance benefits, it said:
Your Barclays Bank Account will have the same sort code, account number and overdraft 
limit as before. In Addition, you can continue to pay for the benefits you wish to keep, such 
as travel insurance and [name removed] Breakdown cover, but if you decide to remove them 
you wont have to pay a monthly charge for your account
Barclays then wrote to Ms K again, this time in August 2015. This letter confirmed that Ms 
Ks account would be changing in November 2015. It also confirmed that similar insurance 
cover would continue to be provided via Feature Store Packs after the Premier Life 
package was removed in November 2015. The letter set out what insurance cover would be 
included under the Packs and invited Ms K to check whether the cover was still right for her, 
and if not, to contact Barclays by phone or in branch.
Having looked at copies of the letters that Barclays has provided from its system records, I 
can see that they were correctly addressed. So overall, I think its more likely than not that 
they were sent to Ms K. And given the dates of the two letters, I think Barclays gave Ms K a 
reasonable amount time so that she could decide what to do, before the changes to the 
account were due to take place.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Barclays had done what it was required to do in terms of 
informing Ms K about the changes that were taking place on her account and explaining 
what her options were.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think it would be appropriate to ask Barclays to 
refund Ms K the fees she paid for the Packs on her account, as I cant see that Barclays has 
done anything wrong when they were added to Ms Ks account. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Additions account was mis-sold, 
and Ive not seen Barclays Bank UK Plc do anything that was unfair or unreasonable when it 
migrated Ms Ks Premier Life account to a fee-free account with Home, Tech and Travel 
Plus Packs added. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman