DRN-3315311
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected their claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought solar panels for their home. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr and 
Mrs B into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Shawbrook made an offer of settlement that would have the effect of making the solar 
panels self-funding within the term of the loan, as Mr and Mrs B say they were promised. 
Plus, an additional £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by some aspects of its 
complaint handing. Mr and Mrs B didnt think this was sufficient and contacted the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators, who thought that 
Shawbrooks offer of settlement was fair and reasonable.  
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy. They still felt the offer was insufficient. And were worried 
about the cost of removing the solar panels once they have run their course. As agreement 
couldnt be reached, Ive been asked to make a decision to confirm what Shawbrook must 
do to put things right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Shawbrook has agreed that the complaint should be upheld. So, I dont need to decide 
whether there was a misrepresentation  only what must happen to put things right. I set this 
out below  it appears that Shawbrook has followed this approach in its offer of settlement. 
So, Im not telling it to do anything more than it has already offered. 
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Bs comments about what happens when the solar panels 
have run their course. But this doesnt change my decision or what I think should happen to 
put things right. 
The solar panels have an expected lifespan of 25 years. Over that time, once the original 
loan term has ended, they will receive significant financial benefits  including from Feed-In 
Tariff payments which continue for 20 years from the system being registered for that 
scheme. So, I think they can use the profits from this towards any removal costs that may 
arise. 
When agreeing to have the solar panels installed, Mr and Mrs B were effectively agreeing to 
bear such costs. And Shawbrooks offer of settlement has the effect of making the deal they 
signed up to match their expectations  that the solar panels would pay for themselves 
within the original loan term, after which they would make a profit from the system. So, I 
dont think Shawbrook needs to make any contribution towards removal of the system at the 
end of its useful life.
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs B from the solar panels over the 
original term of the loan, so they pay no more than that, and they keep the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. Shawbrook has already done this 
calculation.
Because the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs B are paying (or have paid) more than they 
should have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse them accordingly. 
Where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook to restructure Mr and Mrs Bs loan. It should 
recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs B in a position where the solar panel system is cost 
neutral over the original term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs B have the following options as to 
how they would like their overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs B and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs B and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs B accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr and Mrs B have settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
8% interest.
If Mr and Mrs B have settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance, to Shawbrook and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs B paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs B receives their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs B paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs B receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding over the original loan term.
Im satisfied Shawbrooks offer to pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
is fair and reasonable. So, it should make this payment as part of its settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman