DRN-1270347
The complaint
Mr M complains that Black Horse Limited mishandled the rejection of a car hed acquired 
under a hire purchase agreement that wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In December 2018, Mr M acquired a used car via a three-year hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. The car was around nine years old and had a mileage of 65,500. It had been 
agreed, at the point of sale, that a water leak suffered by the cars boot would be repaired by 
the supplying dealership.
Mr M says that the car had numerous faults in addition to the water that was leaking into the 
boot. Mr M says that he tried over a period of four months to reject the car for the various 
faults, but the supplying dealer wouldnt agree and so the car had repairs undertaken in 
December 2018 as well as January and February 2019.
Mr M was unhappy that the cars boot continued to have water leaking into it, despite three 
repairs being attempted. He said he needed to carry items for work in the car but was unable 
to use the boot if it rained. He had to use towels to soak up the water and tried to minimise 
the leaking himself by using tape on the seams. He also had to cover the electrics with 
plastic to prevent further issues developing.
Mr M was also concerned that one of the headlights stopped working and couldnt be 
repaired. He said he had to work shifts and was forced to use the car with only one headlight 
in the dark on occasions. 
The car also developed a problem with the central locking meaning, on occasions, he 
couldnt open the boot and then had no access to items he may have put in there such as 
his work equipment. 
Mr M says he wasnt aware he could bring a complaint to Black Horse until he did his own 
investigation. He complained to Black Horse about the condition of the car in May 2019. 
Black Horse investigated his complaint and arranged for the car to be independently 
inspected. 
The independent engineer reported that, although some of the issues raised by Mr M would 
be expected in car of this age and mileage, there had been failed repairs on the boot and 
headlamp. Black Horse upheld Mr Ms complaint in part and agreed that he was entitled to 
reject the car which would be collected at no cost to Mr M. It agreed that Mr Ms deposit 
should be repaid with interest, together with £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenienced caused by dealing with the faulty car. But Black Horse said that, taking into 
account the number of miles Mr M had driven while having possession of the car, it was 
satisfied he had been able to use it. So, in these circumstances, it said it was fair for Mr M to 
pay for usage and so there wouldnt be any reimbursement of the monthly payments made 
by him under the agreement.
Mr M was unhappy at the response from Black Horse, so he made a complaint to this 
service. 
Mr M said that he should have all the monthly payments repaid due to the length of time it 
had taken to sort his complaint out. Mr M said it hadnt been made clear to him that he could 
raise a complaint with the credit provider when he took out the agreement and, if it had, he 
wouldnt have wasted four months dealing with the supplying dealership whod been 
unhelpful. He also complained that the quality of the repairs had been poor.
Mr M said it was unfair not to have the full refund of his payments as he hadnt intended to 
only rent the car and had traded a car he had been happy with only to find hed acquired a 
faulty car. He said if he had been told at the start of his complaint that he wouldnt be 
reimbursed the monthly payments then he might not have agreed to handing the car back.
Mr M said he was also unhappy that, when hed queried how long it would take to get his 
deposit back, he had been told this would happen straight away but had actually taken 
around 10 days. He said he had to borrow money to replace the car as he needed one for 
work and couldnt use the deposit money.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should be partially upheld. She said 
she thought that Black Horse should have done more to resolve Mr Ms complaint and that 
she that an additional £250 as compensation was fair making a total payment of £400.
Our investigator said this service wouldnt have expected a dealership to have explained 
when a financial agreement was entered into, that the consumer had a right to complain to 
the credit provider if there was a fault with the car. Also, the agreement  said that the car 
belonged to Black Horse and that a complaint could be made to it if required. She said that 
she appreciated Mr M felt frustrated about the actions of the dealership, but Black Horse 
wasnt responsible for that.
Mr Ms complaint had been investigated and a solution offered within eight weeks by Black 
Horse, and the investigator said she didnt think that was unreasonable. She understood the 
deposit had been returned around 10 days later but didnt think this had been an 
unreasonable delay in returning the funds to Mr M. The compensation suggested by the 
investigator reflected the impact dealing with the faulty car had had on Mr M, including 
having to replace it.
Our investigator said that Mr M had been able to use the car in the months it had been in his 
possession, driving around 1,000 miles per month. She said it was fair that he pays for this 
usage.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said if he had known he could complain to 
Black Horse he would have done so sooner and wouldnt have had to pay six monthly 
payments while dealing with the faulty car. He also said if he had known he wouldnt get his 
monthly instalments back he would either have opted to pay smaller monthly amounts or 
would have decided to keep the car.
Black Horse agreed to pay the additional compensation recommended by our investigator to 
Mr M.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M was very disappointed with the car he acquired via a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse. He had exchanged a car hed enjoyed using as he thought this 
car, being a newer model with fewer miles, would be a good a purchase. Unfortunately, this 
doesnt appear to have been the case.
Looking at the evidence it isnt disputed that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Black 
Horse accepts that there were failed repairs to the boot and headlight, and that these faults 
were either present or developing at the point of sale. Mr M has also raised other issues, 
such as the paintwork and engine warning light coming on, but the independent engineer 
reported that the car was in an overall appropriate cosmetic condition for its age and 
mileage.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied  term  that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here,  the car wasnt  brand  new and so wouldnt  be judged  by the same  standard  as 
a new one. I think  a reasonable  person  would  expect  a nine-year-old  car, with a 
mileage  of 65,500,  to have  some  cosmetic  issues  with paintwork  and also to have  
issues  of repair  and maintenance  arise  over time.  However,  looking  at the evidence  
the issues  with the rain water  leaking  into the boot and the defective  headlamp  were  
present  at the point  of sale and the subsequent  repairs  to these  issues  failed.   So, it 
is these  undisputed  difficulties  and their effect  on Mr M that I am going  to concentrate  
on. I accept  there  were  other  problems,  but I dont  have  enough  evidence  to say that 
these  were  also present  from the point  of sale.
Mr M says  that he should  have  been  told at the start of the agreement  that he had a 
right to bring  a complaint  about  the quality  of the car to Black  Horse.  He said not 
knowing  this caused  him months  of delay,  and the frustration  of dealing  with the 
supplying  garage  who declined  his requests  to reject  the car. While  I appreciate  why 
he feels  strongly  he shouldnt  have  had to research  this point  himself  I cant  
reasonably  say that Black  Horse  has done  anything  wrong.  I wouldnt  expect  a 
dealership,  at the point  of sale,  to set out in detail  the complaints  process  to a 
customer  should  they be dissatisfied  with the goods  at some  point.  I think  the 
agreement  does  set out who the car belongs  to until the last payment  had been  
made  under  the agreement.  It also says  a complaint  can be brought  to Black  Horse.
While  I accept  the dealership  could  have  raised  with Mr M his option  to complain  to 
Black  Horse  during  the four months  it was dealing  with his complaint  about  the car, I 
cant  hold Black  Horse  responsible  for it not doing  so. When  Black  Horse  received  
his complaint,  it instigated  its own investigation,  which  included  having  the car 
independently  inspected.Im satisfied  there  wasnt  any undue  delay  in Black  Horse  making  a decision  on Mr 
Ms complaint.  It agreed  that it would  be fair for Mr M to reject  the car and for his 
depoist  to be repaid.  I dont  know  exactly  what  was said about  the repayment  of the 
deposit,  but there  does  appear  to have  been  a misunderstanding.  I would  have  
expected  there  to be a short  delay  for that amount  to be credited  back,  and I dont  
think  the amount  of time it took for the money  to be repaid  was excessive.  Under  the 
Consumer  Rights  Act 2015,  refunds  should  be made  within  14 days  from the date 
that the right to reject  was agreed,  and so this refund  appears  to be within  that time 
limit.
I accept  that, with the car handed  back,  Mr M would  have  needed  to arrange  a 
replacement  quickly.  I also appreciate  that, without  his deposit  being  refunded,  that 
he would  have  had to organise  additional  funds  to finance  this. So, I accept  this 
would  have  caused  him unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience.
Looking  at the impact  that dealing  with the faulty  car had on Mr M I think  a total 
compensation  payment  of £400  is fair and reasonable  in these  circumstances.  This 
recognises  his disappointment  with the car, that he had to deal with a boot that could  
become  unusable  if it rained  and, also on occasions,  drive  at night  with a faulty  
headlight.  He had to take the car to the garage  to be fixed  on a number  of occasions  
and then had to arrange  a new areement  when  he handed  it back.  However,  I 
disgree  that a larger  sum of compensation  is justified  in these  circumstances.
Mr M strongly  believes  that he should  have  all his monthly  repayments  reimbursed.  
He says  he was left with a car for six months  that was faulty  and which  he couldnt  
use as he wanted.  He says  he wouldnt  have  chosen  to rent a car for that period  and 
it isnt fair to take all the monthly  payment  since,  under  agreements,  monthly  
payments  can vary enormously.  Mr M also says  Black  Horse  should  have  told him 
that it would  keep  this money  when  he made  his complaint.
But I wouldnt  expect  a business  to set out at the start how a complaint  may be 
resolved.  It would  need  to investigate  first and then offer what  it thought  was a fair 
resolution.  I dont  think  I can reasonably  criticise  Black  Horse  for not telling  Mr M his 
monthly  payments  may not be returned.  
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015,  if the consumer  exercises  the right to reject,  
then any refund  may be reduced  for usage.  Here,  Mr M had the car for six months  
and, looking  at the addtional  mileage,  was able to make  use of the car. I accept  he 
wasnt  able to use the car completely  as he had wished  due to the various  issues,  
but Mr M was able to drive  around  1,000  miles  per month.  So, although  there  were  
multiple  faults  that occurred  during  the time Mr M had the car, he was still able to 
achieve  what  is recognised  as the average  mileage.  And I think  its reasonable  he 
pays  for this use otherwise  he would  have  the equivalent  of free travel  for that period,  
and I think  that would  be unfair  as that would  put him in a better  position  than he 
would  have  been  in if the car hadnt  been  faulty.
Mr M says  he didnt  want  to rent  the car for six months  which  is, in effect,  what  he 
has done  if Black  Horse  keeps  his payments.  However,  as set out above,  I think  its 
fair he pays  for use of the car even  though  I accept  his intention  wasnt  to have  the 
car for such  a short  period.  
Mr M also says  that Blackhorse  keeping  the amounts  paid under  an agreement  is very arbitrary  as payments  vary from agreement  to agreement.  He also says  if he 
had known  he wouldnt  have  this money  reimbursed  he would  have  arranged  to pay 
a  lower  monthly  sum.  However,  I dont  think  I can reasonably  take into account  that 
the payments  could  have  been  lower  as this would  only have  been  acheivable  if Mr 
M had paid a larger  deposit,  or sought  a longer  agreement.  It is possible  that Black  
Horse  wouldnt  have  agreed  to different  terms  for this financial  agreement.
I appreciate  that when  an agreement  is ended  in these  circumstances  then the 
expectation  of the consumer  might  be to receive  a full refund  of the money  they have  
spent.  But as set out above,  usage  of the car can be deducted  from any refund  and I 
think  deducting  the monthly  payments  made  under  the agreement  to cover  the use 
Mr M made  of the car is fair. So, Im not asking  Black  Horse  to reimburse  these  
payments.  I understand  that Mr M also had the use of a courtsey  car for some  of the 
time the car was at the garage  being  repaired.
I am, therefore,  partially  upholding  Mr Ms complaint.  I dont  think  the orginal  offer of 
£150  compensation  reflected  the distress  and inconvenience  caused  to Mr M having  
to deal with this faulty  car. I think,  for the reaons  set out above,  that a fair amount  of 
compensation  is £400.  
However,  although  I apprecaite  this will be of disappointment  to Mr M, I dont  think  he 
should  be reimbursed  the monthly  payments  he made  under  the agreement.  I think  
its reasonable  and fair for him to pay for the use he had of the car over the six 
months  it was in his possession.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above Im asking Black Horse to pay Mr M a total compensation 
amount of £400.
My final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im asking Black Horse Limited to 
pay Mr M a total amount of compensation of £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 06 January 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman