DRN-2135723
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr H complain that they were mis-sold a Decreasing Term Assurance (DTA) 
policy with Critical Illness Cover (CIC), by Direct Life and Pension Services Ltd (the 
business).  
They say these were unnecessary payments made for something they didnt need, that 
instead shouldve gone towards their mortgage payments or savings. 
What happened
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
In June 2008, Mrs A and Mr H chose to purchase the policy.
This was a non-advised sale. It didnt recommend the policy or provide any advice, 
so disagrees the policy was mis-sold.
Its records show that:
oMrs A and Mr H applied for the policy online.
oThey chose a DTA policy with a £55,000 sum assured with a term of 14 
years. 
oThey also chose the waiver of premium (WOP) option.
It provided the key facts document (KFD) and Illustration which made clear the 
nature and operation of the policy. 
The documents refer to mortgage protection not Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
In 2014, Mrs A applied to remove her WOP. She did this by directly applying to the 
insurer.  
This policy was sold on a standalone basis. 
Its not involved with Mrs As and Mr Hs mortgage lender. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
 
The policy wasnt PPI, but a DTA policy, that was designed to pay out a lump sum in 
the event of death or diagnosis of specified critical illness. 
The policy was applied for online, following a review (in 2008) in which Mrs A and 
Mr H were advised to get cover for their mortgage, which started two years earlier.  
It was Mrs A and Mr Hs decision to take out the policy. The business didnt 
recommend the policy to them. 
At the time they didnt have mortgage cover, and chose the policy based on their 
analysis of their situation. 
The mortgage was for £105,000  over a term of 25 years  that started in June 
2006. Mrs A and Mr H planned to pay back more on the mortgage, so didnt 
need/want a policy that matched the term and amount of the mortgage. They also 
thought a policy with a 14-year term would be cheaper.  
Hes unable to say that the business treated Mrs A and Mr H unfairly. 
Mrs A and Mr H disagreed with the investigators view. In short, Mrs A said:
They didnt have a choice but to take out the policy  which they maintain was 
compulsory  but they chose the term and amount that was affordable to them. 
They didnt complain against the mortgage provider even though they had a review 
with it back in 2008, because thats not the business they bought the policy from. 
They were able to pay the initial £30,000 deposit on the mortgage rather than the 
£3% requested for.  Mrs A had 12-months sick pay benefit from her employer. It 
wasnt possible for both to lose their jobs at the same time. 
Mrs As been with the same trust for over 18 years, the investigator appears to be 
suggesting that shes as vulnerable today as she was 12 years ago.
She had to put her partners name on the policy, even though the mortgage is only in 
her name. 
At present her policy provides more than her outstanding mortgage  suggesting she 
didnt need the policy.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
The mortgage was taken out in June 2006, two years before the policy was applied 
for in June 2008, therefore it couldnt have been a condition to take out cover to 
protect the mortgage, and there was no compulsion to include Mr H in the policy. 
Hes unable to agree that Mrs A and Mr H were told by the business to take out this 
policy to protect the mortgage. 
Mrs A said shes not only unhappy about the opinions of the investigator but also about the 
suggestion that everything mightve been her fault, even though millions like her have been 
mis-sold PPI. 
Shes sought clarification regarding the following questions and observations:
Why the investigator thinks she needs the cover, despite the government asking 
affected persons to make claims for mis-sold policies?
She believes she was taken advantage of. She hasnt come across anyone else with 
this policy. 
She spoke with an adviser and didnt do everything online. 
She still wants to know why Mr H had to be put on the policy when the mortgage 
wasnt even in his name. 
Why did she need WOP given her employee benefits? 
The investigator having considered the questions and observations said was a non-advised 
sale and therefore the business isnt responsible for the suitability of the advice. The 
mortgage was sold by a third-party lender some two years before and therefore the two are 
not connected. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter as been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the DTA policy was taken out 
on a direct basis. In other words, it was sold without financial advice. I note the policy was 
applied for online by Mrs A (and Mr H). 
I should make clear what Mrs A (and Mr H) purchased wasnt PPI, as the investigator has 
explained. 
Im satisfied that they bought the policy of their own volition and as a result, Im unable to 
consider the suitability of the policy. I believe the onus was on them to make sure the cover 
was suitable for their circumstances, and that it was what they wanted  regardless of 
whether (or not) the plan matched the outstanding mortgage term and amount. 
Im mindful that they have their reasons for applying for a policy that didnt match the term 
and amount of their mortgage, regardless of whether (or not) they spoke to the business. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that the business advised them to do this. 
Im mindful that they had a review in 2008, with the mortgage lender, some two years after 
the mortgage was taken out. So even if they were (erroneously) told the policy was 
compulsory, I cant blame the business for this. In other words, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that it was the business that told them they had to have cover in relation to a mortgage that 
they took out two years earlier. 
On the contrary, I note Mrs A says her policy is now worth more than her outstanding 
mortgage which would suggest that she and Mr H knew what they were doing when they 
took out the policy (two years after the mortgage started). Even though it didnt match the 
term and amount of the mortgage. 
These policies arent generally considered to be complicated, and its not unlikely that Mrs A 
and Mr H wouldnt have taken out the policy without advice. And Im satisfied the plan 
documentation supplied before they wouldve accepted the policy was broadly clear about 
what theyd purchased.  
Having taken all these factors in to consideration, Im unable to safely conclude that this was 
an advised sale, and therefore I dont uphold this complaint. Whilst I appreciate Mrs As and 
Mr Hs frustration, Im cant ask the business to do anything because I dont think it has done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman