DRN-1873128
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that UK Insurance Limited made errors during its handling of their 
claim which resulted in Mr F having to arrange Mrs Fs repatriation privately. 
What happened
During a holiday in June 2019, Mrs F became very ill. Doctors induced her into a coma, used 
a ventilator to take over her breathing and transferred her to an intensive care unit. The 
diagnosis was hyponatremia (extremely low sodium levels), thought to have been caused by 
fluid loss during an episode of vomiting and diarrhoea.
Mr F called UK I to let it know what was happening and to enquire about repatriation. The 
following morning, he provided the contact details for the hospital where Mrs F was being 
treated. UK I said it would arrange Mrs Fs repatriation once it knew she was fit to travel and 
told Mr F not to worry about this. Mr and Mrs F were joined by their son on this date.  
UK I called the hospital later that day. The hospital reported that Mrs F was unfit to travel as 
she required further treatment to return her sodium levels to normal and would likely need a 
period of recovery and rehabilitation. The hospital also wanted Mrs F to be free from 
diarrhoea for 24 hours before agreeing she could travel. UK I agreed with the hospital that 
they would call back in three days for an update. 
Mr F was in touch with UK I on the next day and was again reassured that it would arrange 
repatriation. But it said it would hold off on making any arrangements until the hospital 
confirmed Mrs F was fit to travel and explained to Mr F that it was due to speak to them 
again in a couple of days. Mr and Mrs Fs daughters flew out to meet them on this date. 
On the next day, Mr F told UK I that Mrs F might be discharged soon if she remained stable 
for 24 hours. UK I repeated that it wanted to wait for the scheduled call with the hospital (due 
to take place the following day) before making any decisions. It said it would only agree to 
them coming home early if it was medically necessary, otherwise theyd need to return home 
as originally planned. Mr F said this conflicted with what it had told him previously. 
Mr F followed this up with an email the following morning requesting confirmation of UK Is 
repatriation decision and proposing some travel arrangements. He said Mrs F had now been 
moved to a recovery ward and provided an updated phone number. An hour or two later he 
emailed again to say it was looking like Mrs F would definitely be discharged that afternoon. 
UK I called the hospital at around mid-day but didnt use the updated phone number and 
didnt get through. Mr F called again at around 3 oclock to confirm that Mrs F had been 
discharged and that hed obtained a copy of the discharge report. He said he and his family 
would be staying in a hotel that night and UK I agreed to call the hospital meanwhile. 
It called Mr F back an hour later to say the hospital hadnt released any information as Mrs F 
was no longer under its care. It asked to see Mr Fs copy of the discharge report. Mr F only 
had his phone and the report was 40 pages long. As they were anxious to get Mrs F home 
his family arranged her repatriation themselves. Mrs F travelled home by rail with her son the 
next day. Mr F later drove home with his daughter. His other daughter flew home separately.  
Mr F subsequently submitted his costs and is satisfied that, aside from the cost of repairing a 
broken filling, UK I has reimbursed all eligible costs up to the policy limits. However, he 
complained to UK I about its handling of the situation. He said hed received conflicting 
information during calls and that UK I had failed to contact the hospital in a timely manner 
prior to Mrs F being discharged.
UK I accepted it had given Mr F conflicting information. And that it might have been able to 
get the information it needed from the hospital if it had used the updated contact details. 
However, it felt it couldnt have arranged Mrs Fs repatriation without seeing the discharge 
report because it needed to ensure she was fit to travel and that any arrangements were 
medically appropriate. It apologised and paid £150 in compensation. 
Mr F didnt feel this sufficiently recognised the stress he and his family went through and 
therefore brought the complaint to our service. However, our investigator concluded that the 
amount of compensation UK I had awarded was reasonable in the circumstances. She also 
concluded the cost of repairing Mrs Fs broken filling wasnt something the policy covered. 
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy, so I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UK I has a regulatory obligation to handle all claims promptly and fairly and it appears to 
accept that it didnt always meet this obligation in its handling of Mr and Mrs Fs claim. 
Aside from the cost of repairing Mrs Fs broken filling (which Ive addressed later in this 
letter), Mr F seems satisfied that the claim has now been settled in line with the policy terms. 
So, I need to decide whether the compensation UK I has offered fairly reflects any additional 
distress or inconvenience he and his wife suffered as a result of its failings. 
Ive emphasised additional because claims involving a serious medical emergency by their 
nature will always be distressing, even if theyre handled well. So, Ive only considered the 
extent to which UK I made things worse than they otherwise might have been. 
Its also important to explain that I can only consider the distress and inconvenience suffered 
by Mr and Mrs F, as the policy was taken out for their benefit. Whilst I appreciate their son 
and daughters later flew out to join them, I cant consider the impact of UK Is actions on 
them unless I consider that this caused further distress or inconvenience to Mr and Mrs F. 
UK I accepts that it gave Mr F conflicting information about the circumstances in which it 
would repatriate Mrs F. Id agree with that too. I think its relevant to explain though that the 
different requirements related to two different parts of the policy. Under the section headed 
emergency medical and travel expenses abroad, the only requirements for repatriation 
were that Mrs Fs condition was serious and that she was fit enough to travel safely. 
Under the section headed cutting short a journey however, which Mr F also claimed under, 
cover (for unused and additional travel and accommodation costs) is only provided if its 
necessary for an insured person to return home early due to illness.  
I think to begin with, UK I recognised that the severity of Mrs Fs condition meant she would 
most likely qualify for repatriation once she was fit to travel. As that would in turn meet the 
requirements of the curtailment section, it didnt think to highlight those requirements to Mr F. 
But this meant that when it did highlight them to Mr F later, it led him to think UK I was 
applying an additional caveat, which undoubtedly would have made him feel more anxious. Thats particularly so given the firm assurances UK I had given that it would take care of the 
repatriation and that Mr F didnt need to worry about this. I think UK I could have done a 
better job of explaining how the policy would respond from the outset.  
Mr F is also unhappy that UK I wasnt prepared to make a decision on repatriation without 
speaking to the hospital first, but then didnt contact the hospital in good time before Mrs F 
was discharged. 
I recognise Mr F was very keen to get ahead of the game with regards to the repatriation. 
And its perfectly understandable that he wanted to arrange for Mrs F to see a doctor in the 
UK as quickly as possible. 
In my view, it would have been impractical for UK I to have made arrangements before it had 
confirmation Mrs F was fit to travel. If there had been any complications or Mrs F had 
needed more treatment for example it would then have had to make different arrangements. 
From a medical perspective, it also needed to make sure repatriation was actually going to 
be safe, and that any travel arrangements it made were appropriate to Mrs Fs condition. 
UK I was in touch with the hospital early on in the claim and was advised that, at that point, 
Mrs F was unfit to travel as she needed further treatment and time to recover. UK I agreed 
with the hospital that it would call back three days later for a further update. I appreciate it 
was frustrating for Mr F that UK I wasnt prepared to start planning a repatriation in the 
meantime, but for the reasons given above I think that was the right approach to begin with.
UK I stuck rigidly to this timeframe though, even when Mr F explained early in the afternoon 
on the second day that Mrs F was starting to stabilise and would be discharged soon. It then 
had confirmation that Mrs F was about to be discharged early in the morning of the third day. 
Yet it didnt try and call the hospital until mid-day. And even then it didnt make use of the 
number Mr F provided for the ward. 
Taking this into account, I agree that realistically UK I ought to have got the information it 
needed from the hospital in good time before Mrs F was discharged. On balance, this ought 
to have enabled UK I to satisfy itself that Mrs F was fit to fly and to have started making 
medically appropriate arrangements for her repatriation. So, I agree that this made an 
already challenging time more difficult for Mr and Mrs F than it otherwise might have been. 
Mr F says this forced him into an intolerable position whereby he was forced to arrange the 
repatriation himself. But I think its important to consider that UK I didnt refuse outright to 
repatriate Mrs F. It told Mr F that it would be able to use the discharge report, which he had a 
copy of, to satisfy itself that Mrs F was fit to fly, and to ensure the suitability of any travel 
plans, in the absence of information from the hospital. 
I recognise it would have been difficult logistically for Mr F to have sent UK I a 40 page 
report and that his number one priority at the time was the comfort and wellbeing of his wife. 
But they had already booked to stay in a hotel that night so there was no immediate urgency. 
And whilst it may have been a cumbersome process he could have sent UK I images of the 
report using his phone or even sought some assistance from hotel staff. Its likely UK I could 
then have arranged Mrs Fs repatriation. But equally I understand, given the circumstances, 
that it may have seemed preferable to just get on with sorting the repatriation privately.   Its also important to bear in mind that in explaining his decision not to send the discharge 
report to UK I and instead to make a claim once back in the UK, Mr F said he had his three 
children with him who could help him manage things. Hes since said his son made many of 
the arrangements, which would have eased the burden on Mr and Mrs F. And UK I has since 
reimbursed the repatriation costs in line with the policy terms and acknowledged that it could 
have handled things better.  
Having weighed everything up carefully, I think UK I did increase Mr Fs anxiety by failing to 
explain the exact requirements of the policy from the outset. And I think its actions did lead 
to a situation where Mr F was forced to choose between arranging the repatriation himself 
(albeit with support from his children) or endure a laborious process of sending UK I a forty 
page report without access to a computer. Considering these issues in the round, I think the 
compensation UK I has paid already broadly reflects the impact that its shortcomings had on 
Mr and Mrs F. Ive therefore decided not to ask UK I to pay any further compensation.  
With regards to Mrs Fs broken filling, it doesnt appear that this was treated until Mrs F 
returned to the UK. Mr Fs policy only covers emergency medical expenses incurred abroad, 
and specifically excludes dental work. It didnt need repairing as a result of anything UK I did 
wrong in its handling of the claim either. So, Im satisfied UK I doesnt need to pay for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman