DRN-3727970
The complaint
Mr P complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) irresponsibly gave him a credit card 
account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 12 March 2019, Mr P applied for and was given a credit card account with Vanquis. Mr P 
was given an initial credit limit of £500. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mr P complained to Vanquis to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable and that Vanquis ought to have made a better effort to 
understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr P didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Vanquis will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ps complaint is that Vanquis made credit available that was unaffordable. Vanquis has 
explained that it carried out a credit check to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. Vanquis checked Mr Ps credit record to see how he had been managing his credit 
with other providers. And it used information that Mr P declared in his application to assess 
affordability. Considering the modest nature of the credit it then provided Mr P, I think these 
checks were, in this case, proportionate. 
But even if that wasnt true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Vanquis to 
think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Mr P told Vanquis that he worked full time as a permanent employee 
and earned a good salary. Mr Ps bank statements show that Mr Ps account enjoyed an 
income that was both regular and not modest. And the statements for the months prior to 
the lending decision suggest that whatever other monthly commitments Mr P may have 
had for other credit, the total income each month was roughly the same as his monthly 
expenditure and was in credit. 
I have noted that Mr Ps credit file shows that he had some accounts in default in 2018. 
But Mr Ps more recent record was clean and the historic payment issues probably 
accounts for the modesty of the initial credit limit. And that credit limit was never 
increased. So, overall, I have seen insufficient evidence that better information would have 
put Vanquis off providing this reasonably modest credit on this credit card at that time. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr P to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Vanquis to think that the credit it 
provided Mr P was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Vanquis could see 
of his management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than 
it did. 
I know that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr P to know that I have 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman