DRN-2815336
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained about a secured loan with Swift Advances Plc. Their 
complaint is about the following issues:
mis-sale of the loan;
failure to assess affordability;
taking advantage of their vulnerability;
continual harassment, putting them under duress to sign the loan agreement;
nobody explained that fees would be added to the loan;
Swift paid the broker a large hidden commission;
unlawful fees, charges and interest applied to the account;
failure to inform them of fees and charges on the account;
dissatisfaction with the outstanding balance, given the payments they have made;
bullying and harassment from Swift since the loan completed.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs T want to be released from their loan agreement and be 
refunded for any repayments made after Mr Ts 65th birthday.
What happened
In July 2007, on the advice of their broker (a business which is no longer trading), Mr and 
Mrs T took out an unregulated secured loan with Swift. The loan agreement shows they 
borrowed £105,000 plus fees totalling £5,190 (making a total of £110,190) over a term of 25 
years at a variable interest rate, initially 11.91%. Unfortunately Mr and Mrs T fell into arrears, 
as a result of which a suspended possession order was granted on 2 July 2008.
The implications of this were that fees and charges, as well as legal costs, were applied to 
the account, which in turn accrued interest and thus increased the balance on the loan and 
the total amount repayable.
Over the years Mr and Mrs T have grown unhappy with their loan and complained to Swift 
about fees and charges on the account, receiving a final response in July 2012. 
A further complaint was raised in 2015, about the issues Mr and Mrs T are now raising with 
us, including the sale of the loan, the broker fees, Swifts handling of the account, including 
fees and charges that had been applied, dissatisfaction with the interest rate and an 
allegation that they had never been provided with a tariff of charges. 
Swift issued a second final response letter rejecting the complaint dated 29 May 2015, Swift 
explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service could only look at issues that occurred 
after 1 April 2014, and gave Mr and Mrs T six months from the date of that letter to refer their 
complaint to us. Mr and Mrs T did not contact us at that time.
This current complaint was raised with Swift in September 2019 in relation to all the issues 
listed above. In its final response letter, Swift explained that it was only covered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 1 April 2014 to 20 March 2016 and that, during 
that period, the loan had been administered in accordance with the terms and conditions.
Dissatisfied with Swifts response, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on 5 February 2020, where an investigator looked at what had 
happened. He sent a detailed letter dated 29 October 2020 setting out his view of the 
complaint.
He noted Mr and Mrs T wanted us to look at all the issues they were unhappy about, and in 
particular events at the time the loan was taken out. But he explained that we could only look 
at what had happened between 1 April 2014 and 20 March 2016. 
The investigator also noted that Swift had not given us its consent to look at anything that 
had happened between 1 April 2014 and 29 May 2015 (the date of the second final 
response letter) and which had been addressed in that letter. Thats because Mr and Mrs T 
hadnt referred the complaint to us within six months of the date of that letter and there were 
no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay. He noted that the only issues raised 
which covered the period 1 April 2014 to 29 May 2015 were fees and charges.
The investigator clarified that we could look at other issues complained about that had 
happened between 1 April 2014 and 20 March 2016 which hadnt been covered in the 
second final response letter.
In relation to fees and charges applied during the period 30 May 2015 (the day after the 
second final response letter) to 20 March 2016 (the last day Swift was covered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service), the investigator was satisfied that no fees and charges had 
been applied. Although the account had been in arrears, payments were made on time and 
the arrears fell. The investigator was also satisfied that Swift had sent annual statements to 
Mr and Mrs T.
In relation to other issues between 1 April 2014 to 20 March 2016, the investigator was 
satisfied that Swift hadnt done anything wrong. It had administered the account correctly, 
and had also reduced the interest rate as a concession to help Mr and Mrs T. Attempts to 
engage with Mr and Mrs T were unsuccessful, yet Swift did not increase the interest rate, 
Overall, the investigator thought Swift hadnt treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly.
Mr and Mrs T asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. They 
acknowledge we cant consider all their complaints (including mis-sale of the loan) and are 
unhappy that we cant look at all the issues they are complaining about. They believe they 
have been treated very unfairly by Swift.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note from his telephone conversation with the investigator on 23 November 2020 that Mr T 
accepts we can only look at part of the complaint, and not all the complaint points. But for 
clarity, I will set out what this means so there can be no ambiguity about what we can, and 
cannot, look at.
Ill start by explaining that I can only consider a complaint against Swift in relation to events 
that happened between 1 April 2014 and 20 March 2016. Before and after that period, Swift 
was not covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. So its not a question of Swift not 
allowing us to look at all the issues Mr and Mrs T are unhappy about  we simply have no legal power to consider a complaint about anything that happened before 1 April 2014 or 
after 20 March 2016.
In addition, under our rules, where a final response letter has been issued giving referral 
rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service, we can only consider the complaint if its 
referred to us within six months of the date of the letter. If its received by us outside of that 
time limit, we cant look at the complaint, unless Swift agrees or if there are exceptional 
circumstances to explain the delay.
Mr and Mrs T received a final response from Swift on 29 May 2015. The only part of the 
complaint covered in that final response which relates to events that occurred after 1 April 
2014 was about fees and charges. All the other issues were about things that had happened 
before that date, when Swift wasnt covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr and Mrs S were given six months to refer their complaint to us  so until 29 November 
2015. They didnt complain to us until 5 February 2020. Swift hasnt consented to us looking 
at the complaint about fees and charges applied to the account between 1 April 2014 and 
29 May 2015. To be clear, it doesnt have to, where the complaint has been referred too late. 
There are no exceptional circumstances to explain why the complaint wasnt brought to us 
by 29 November 2015. This means that I have no power to consider Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint about fees and charges applied to the account between 1 April 2014 and 29 May 
2015.
What I can consider are fees and charges applied between 30 May 2015 and 20 March 
2016, as well as Mr and Mrs Ts other concerns about the account administration between 
1 April 2014 and 20 March 2016.
Ive reviewed the account and Im satisfied that Swift did not apply any fees or charges to the 
account for the period 30 May 2015 to 20 March 2016. This means that I dont uphold Mr 
and Mrs Ts complaint that Swift unreasonably applied fees and charges to their account.
Ive also looked at the way the account was handled between 1 April 2014 and 20 March 
2016. Although this is an unregulated account, Swifts procedures for arrears-handling 
appear to be in line with the standards applied to regulated businesses. I can see that Swift 
made attempts to engage with Mr and Mrs T about their arrears, reduced the interest rate 
(and continued this reduction for a further period even when Mr and Mrs T failed to engage 
with Swift), and generally took reasonable steps to avoid having to go back to court. As a 
result, the arrears fell during this period. 
In order to help Mr and Mrs T, Swift had stopped calling when interest reduction concessions 
were in place, but resumed contact with Mr and Mrs T when a concession was reaching the 
end of its agreed period. I dont think this was unreasonable, because Swift needed to know 
what their circumstances were. I can understand that Mr and Mrs T considered this to be 
harassment and bullying, but Im not persuaded that Swifts actions were unreasonable, 
given that Mr and Mrs T appeared to be refusing to engage with Swift and ignored all 
attempts to contact them.
Overall, in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded Swift acted unreasonably in relation to 
its arrears-handling procedures between 1 April 2014 and 20 March 2016. This means that 
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs T wanted. I know they feel very strongly that 
they shouldnt have been advised to take out this loan. But, as Ive said above, thats not 
something we can consider.If Mr and Mrs T are experiencing financial difficulties, they might find it helpful to speak to 
one of the free debt advice agencies such as Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We 
can provide Mr and Mrs T with contact details for those agencies, if theyd like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is as follows:
the Financial Ombudsman Service has no jurisdiction to consider Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaints about events that occurred before or after the period 1 April 2014 to 20 March 
2016 because Swift Advances Plc was not covered by us;
the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about fees 
and charges between 1 April 2014 and 29 May 2015 because that complaint has been 
brought too late;
I dont uphold the complaint about fees and charges applied from 30 May 2015 to 
20 March 2016.
I dont uphold the complaint about arrears-handling, interest rates, account 
administration, harassment and bullying between 1 April 2014 and 20 March 2016.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman