DRN-2434806
The complaint
Mr B complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In October 2016 Mr B was supplied with a  car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MBFS. At the end of the agreement the car was inspected.
MBFS asked Mr B to pay charges for damage which it said went beyond fair wear and tear, 
including damage to the front grille.
Mr B disputed the charges. He said the car was in very good condition when he returned it 
and that the inspector had told him that the damage to the grille was a stone chip that was 
less than 5mm and that it would fall within fair wear and tear.
In response to Mr Bs complaint, MBFS said the damage exceeded fair wear and tear and 
that the charges were payable.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that the damage to the grille 
fell outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines and that the charges had been applied fairly 
by MBFS.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the inspector had told him that the damage was minor. He said 
the grille hadnt been replaced because MBFS had sent the car straight to auction. He said if 
hed known that he would be charged over £300 for the grille he would have replaced this 
himself before returning the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr B must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report, including the photos. This shows that the grille is broken. 
Im satisfied that a broken grille goes beyond fair wear and tear, taking into account the 
BVLRA guidelines. The MBFS vehicle returns standards also say that this type of damage 
goes beyond fair wear and tear.
Based on what Ive seen, and taking the relevant guidelines into account, Im of the view that 
the damage exceeds fair wear and tear and that MBFS has applied the charges fairly. 
In appreciate that Mr B doesnt dispute the damage itself but rather the charges hes being 
asked to pay. He says the cost of a replacement grille is around £80 and that the rest of the 
charges are labour. He doesnt think this is fair, especially as the car went straight to auction 
without the grille being repaired.
Ive looked at the relevant BVLRA guidance on this. It says that charges can be applied in 
cases where the finance provider decides not to carry out repairs. The reason for this is 
because  any damage to the car is likely to be reflected in a reduction in the cars sale value 
if it isnt repaired.
Mr B has said that he thinks the car was in such good condition that it would have exceeded 
its market value at auction. Im unable to say whether this is the case because I dont know 
what the car sold for at auction. But I think its fair to say that a purchaser would take any 
damage into account when deciding how much to pay for a car. 
I understand that Mr B is unhappy because he feels that the inspector misled him into 
thinking the damage to the grille would fall within fair wear and tear. Because I wasnt 
present when Mr B discussed the damage with the inspector, I cant be certain of what was 
said. However, the inspection report clearly states that the grille is broken and as Ive 
already said, the relevant guidelines place this type of damage outside of fair wear and tear. 
Mr B has said that if hed known the charges would be so high he would have replaced the 
grille himself before retuning the car. I think Mr B had fair opportunity to do this before he 
returned the car, because the relevant guidelines make it clear that this type of damage falls 
outside fair wear and tear.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that MBFS has applied the charges fairly. I wont 
be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman