DRN-3982326
The complaint
A trustee of D, a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), complains that poor customer 
service by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc prevented D from benefiting from RBS 
incentivised bank account switching scheme. 
This complaint has been referred to us by Miss H, a representative, on behalf of the trustee. 
What happened
In late 2019, RBS wrote to the trustee to invite D to participate in the switching scheme, 
offering an incentive payment of £1,250 if D successfully switched to another bank. RBS 
online link said that there were five banks to which D could potentially move its banking. The 
trustee selected one (which I will refer to as the other bank) and was sent an application 
form. 
Miss H was unsure how to answer some of the questions on the application form. The other 
bank advised her to confirm with RBS. RBS werent sure of the answers, but eventually 
made a suggestion, which Miss H used to complete the form. 
In January 2020, Miss H complained on behalf of the trustee about various aspects of RBS 
customer service in the course of trying to arrange Ds switch (the first complaint). RBS 
upheld parts of the complaint about a promised call-back, call waiting times and calling Miss 
H on the wrong number. RBS said they would cover any costs incurred due to their errors. 
In March 2020, the other bank rejected Ds application, because it said the form was 
completed incorrectly. It subsequently agreed to proceed with a manual switch rather than 
an automated one. 
In August 2020, the other bank informed the trustee that due to its merger with another bank, 
there had been a policy change and it would no longer accept SIPP accounts.
 Miss H says she then spent several days phoning the other four banks on RBS list but none 
would accept Ds account. She also says they told her they had never accepted pension 
accounts.  
In February 2021, Miss H complained again (the second complaint) and explained to RBS 
that she wanted to resume and add to her previous complaint, as the matter of Ds switch 
was still not resolved. RBS told her that the previous complaint was closed, but they 
considered a fresh complaint from her regarding several new issues. These included RBS 
not compensating her for the failure to switch and the other banks listed by RBS not in fact 
being willing to open an account for D. 
As with the first complaint, RBS accepted that they had made some errors in the way theyd 
handled things, but they didnt uphold the major complaint points regarding the failed switch 
and they didnt offer compensation. 
Miss H referred both complaints to the Financial Ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision 
on 17 January, in which I partially upheld the complaint, although I didnt think that RBS were 
responsible for the central issue of the missed incentive payment. In summary, I said:
I didnt think the first complaint had been referred too late. I thought we had the 
power to look into both the complaints. I said this on the basis of a phone call Miss H 
made, in which I considered she was given the impression that the deadline didnt 
matter, as things could still be reconsidered later if she wanted.
In any case, I thought it was really all one complaint and I therefore considered its 
merits as one. 
RBS was obliged to invite eligible accounts to transfer, but that didnt mean that any 
customers had to leave. 
Based on what Id seen, I didnt think RBS misled Miss H about the need to switch or 
about the shortlist of banks that could be approached about the switch. I thought the 
banks communications were clear and had included warnings that the new bank 
would have criteria that needed to be met.
In the case of Ds account, all the shortlisted banks ultimately decided that they didnt 
want to open an account. But I didnt think that meant RBS had made an error in 
including D in its invitation to switch or in the shortlist given. 
Different banks classify entities differently and a SIPP business current account is a 
non-standard type of account, for which banks may well not have a specific category. 
RBS classified the account as other on their system. 
RBS suggested that D try trust in its application to the other bank. A SIPP can be 
described as a type of trust, so I dont RBS made an error in suggesting that. It was 
unfortunate that the other bank rejected this, but I dont think this was RBS fault.
Despite the discrepancy with the category, the other bank agreed to proceed with the 
switch manually. So I didnt think this classification issue was actually what prevented 
the switch going ahead.
Ultimately, it was the change of policy at the other bank that prevented the successful 
switch. I can only imagine how frustrating this was for Miss H and the trustee. But I 
cant reasonably hold RBS responsible for another banks commercial decision.
I noted that it wasnt fair to say that RBS refused to offer any compensation for their 
errors. In the banks first response letter, they said they were more than happy to 
cover any costs considered.
On balance, I was minded to think that some compensation was warranted for the 
inconvenience RBS poor service in January 2020 caused. In particular, I was mindful 
of the promise to investigate matters and call back that wasnt kept, the confusion 
caused about client money, the missing mandate and the ambiguous security 
question, which resulted in a branch visit being required. I provisionally thought that a payment of £300 was appropriate to compensate for 
those errors.
The bank agreed to my provisional decision and made no further comments. Miss H thanked 
me for my findings on our jurisdiction to consider the first complaint and made the following 
points, in summary: 
All the other banks on RBS shortlist told her that D wasnt even eligible to apply to 
switch to them and never had been. If she had known that from the start, she could 
have saved several days effort. 
She had specifically checked this with RBS and they had incorrectly told her on the 
phone that the other banks shortlisted would definitely be willing to accept Ds 
account, even though it was a SIPP. 
RBSs unsatisfactory level of phone support in January 2020 caused Miss H and the 
trustee to have to visit a branch and ultimately resulted in the application being 
rejected for an automated switch. 
Had the switch gone through automatically, it would have been completed before the 
other banks merger and resulting policy change on accepting SIPP accounts. 
She and the trustee were assured by three different RBS employees that if RBS 
actions contributed in whole or in part to D missing out on the incentive, then D would 
be compensated. 
Miss H gave further examples of poor customer service in relation to the complaint in 
August 2020 and February and March 2021. She thought that compensation should 
be increased to cover these. 
She considered that interest should be added to the compensation, as RBS had told 
her that they could only consider reimbursing her once the final outcome of the 
switch was known. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but I havent been persuaded to change my 
provisional view. I dont think that the failure to switch Ds account and gain the incentive 
was caused by an error by RBS, although I do agree that their poor customer service on 
occasion caused inconvenience and frustration. 
I still havent seen any evidence that RBS made an error in listing the banks to which D was 
eligible to switch. 
Unfortunately for D, when information was exchanged between the participating banks, it just 
wasnt granular enough to identify SIPP accounts. The offers were based on much less 
specific criteria such as it being a business account with a certain turnover. This means that I 
dont think the participating banks would have known it was a SIPP when deciding to make 
an offer. RBS made it clear that eligible customers would always have to go through an application 
process at the bank to which they wanted to switch. So I think it was evident that there was 
always the possibility that the other banks would decline to take the account, despite making 
the initial offer, when they found out more about the business. 
It follows from the above that RBS wouldnt have known that the other banks would reject 
Ds account. The only way of finding that out was to do what Miss H and the trustee 
eventually did and phone all the banks listed. I appreciate this was unsatisfactory, but Im 
afraid in my view it was the result of having a very unusual category of bank account rather 
than a RBS error. And Im mindful that this was an entirely voluntary process, as D didnt 
have to switch. 
I also note that although Miss H now says none of the listed banks would even let D apply, 
she told RBS in an earlier call to which Ive listened that they had told her that D could apply, 
but it was unlikely to be successful. I think this is slightly different from not being able to 
apply at all and again suggests there was no error on the part of RBS in listing them.  
I know Miss H has mentioned specifically checking with the RBS switching line that the listed 
banks would accept a SIPP account. I havent heard this call but even if RBS were unclear, it 
would not change my view on compensation. I say this because Ive concluded that, as far 
as RBS knew, the other banks were prepared to accept Ds account. I think its highly 
unlikely that RBS would have known the other banks policies on SIPP accounts and, based 
on Miss Hs earlier accounts, the other banks didnt say they definitely wouldnt accept D, 
just that it was unlikely. 
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that poor service had resulted in Miss H and the 
trustee taking time off work to visit a branch. But I still consider that RBS couldnt reasonably 
be expected to know the answer to the question Miss H was trying to get answered, which 
was how the other bank would require Ds account to be categorised on its application to 
switch. 
I accept its possible that if RBS had known how the other bank wanted SIPP accounts 
categorised, then the automated switch might have gone ahead before the other bank 
changed its policy. But theres no evidence or certainty that this is the case. Its equally 
possible in my view, that the other banks change of policy might have come to light sooner if 
the switch had been ready to complete sooner. And in any case, I dont accept that it was an 
error on RBS part not to know the answer. I realise how frustrating this is for Miss D, but 
different banks categorise things differently. 
Miss H has said that RBS told her more than once that if they were wholly or partly 
responsible for D missing out on the incentive, then they would pay the incentive amount as 
compensation. I havent seen evidence of this offer. But the decision for me is whats fair and 
reasonable here. I think it would only be fair to expect RBS to pay the incentive, if I was 
satisfied that D would have qualified for it, were it not for the actions of RBS. I dont think this 
was the case. 
After the extension of the scheme, participants had until June 2021 to complete their switch 
and I havent seen that RBS had much involvement after January/February 2020. I know that 
Miss H has cited various problems with the banks complaint handing in August 2020 and 
February and March 2021, but I dont think these had any bearing on the failure to get the 
incentive. 
I realise that this outcome is extremely frustrating for the trustee and Miss H. They have put 
considerable time and effort into getting an incentive payment that was always going to be 
difficult for a SIPP account. Ultimately, I consider the central problem here to be that many banks have made commercial decisions to cease offering accounts for certain categories of 
customer such as SIPPs. This is in my view why the switch failed and I dont think it is RBS 
fault. 
Putting things right
RBS accepted my provisional conclusion that some compensation was warranted for their 
poor service at various points. There were a number of small errors, which taken individually 
might not have merited compensation, but looked at overall, I still consider that £300 is the 
fair amount for this. I know Miss H has described in more detail her problems with various 
complaint handlers but I had already taken them into account. 
Miss H has argued that I should add interest to the compensation, because an RBS 
complaint handler told her that RBS would only consider reimbursement for the incentive 
and issues related to it once the outcome of the application to the other bank was known for 
sure. I dont think adding interest would be fair. First, as Ive said, Im not intending to direct 
RBS to reimburse the incentive. RBS letter of February 2020 made it clear that they were 
prepared to reimburse the trustee for other costs incurred due to the banks error, so I think 
this could have been followed up at the time and compensation received in a more timely 
manner. 
RBS could have been more helpful at various points throughout the process and it is for this 
reason that I am directing them to pay £300 in compensation for the inconvenience they 
caused.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay D 
compensation of £300.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman