DRN-2746114
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Scottish Widows Limited. Hes unhappy about the fact that
Scottish Widows wouldnt accept the transfer of pension funds from a policy with protected
rights without an independent financial adviser (IFA) dealing with the transfer itself.
What happened
Mr W retired in 2019. He set up a retirement account with Scottish Widows. He transferred
pension policies he held into the retirement account and wanted to transfer his Growth Plan
Series 3 into that account. This plan including protected rights.
Despite the fact that Mr W could evidence that he had taken advice on this transfer, Scottish
Widows insisted that the administration of the transfer itself had to be handled by an IFA.
This caused additional cost to Mr W and he says its unfair.
Scottish Widows says that it doesnt accept transfers like this through its direct customer
route and it must be facilitated by an IFA. It says this approach is supported by the industry
regulator, the FCA.
The complaint was considered by an investigator. He didnt think that it should be upheld. He
explained that its not the role of this service to protect the interests of consumers, it's to help
resolve complaints between businesses and consumers. Scottish Widows wasnt acting
unfairly in requiring an IFA to be involved in the transfer. This requirement isnt uncommon
across the industry and it wasnt malpractice as Mr W had suggested. Mr W was free to
take his business elsewhere if he wished.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He questioned whether
Scottish Widows had explained why they had set an additional requirement beyond what is
required by law and why it felt it is acceptable to pass on the costs to their customers. He
said the fact that other providers levy the same or similar charges does not make this right or
fair.
As no agreement has been reached the case was referred to me for a decision.
I made a provisional decision explaining why I agreed with the investigator. I said:
I currently agree with the investigator that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. But I note that
the initial view responded to the complaint on a different basis and so Ive decided to make
this provisional decision.
Mr W has confirmed that his complaint isnt about any requirement that he take advice about
this pension transfer. My understanding is that Mr W fully accepts that there is a legal
requirement to take advice and he is clear that he did take advice. His complaint is only
about the requirement of Scottish Widows that an IFA actually process the transfer itself.
The industry regulator has expressed concerns about transfers out of defined benefit
pension scheme for many years. In its policy statement (PS20/6) on pension transfer advice
from 2020 the FCA restated its concerns and commented on the number of consumers who
had transferred away from pension schemes with guaranteed benefits in recent years. Its
view is that the number of transfers is too high, and it questions if the transfers are always in
a consumers best interests, even if they are suitable. I think this complaint, and the 
requirements of Scottish Widows, must be viewed in that context. 
I must also have regard to the regulators guidance and industry practice when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable.
Scottish Widows is entitled to exercise its commercial judgement and discretion when it
decides on what terms it will conduct its business. It must follow the law, but there is nothing
to suggest that insisting that an IFA handle the transfer in this situation is unlawful in any
way.
As the investigator says, other businesses impose similar requirements in similar 
circumstances, and it seems to be widespread and common industry practice. Whilst there
may be no express legal or regulatory requirement that this condition is imposed, Scottish
Widows says that it is supported by the FCA. I agree. In the policy statement Ive referred
to above, the FCA sets out how it intends to extend the scope of the Conduct of Business
rules (COBS) to cover firms that arrange transfers as well was those that advise. A firm
arranging a pension transfer where it hasnt given the transfer advice will have to confirm the
advice, and if the advice is not to transfer, it will also have to warn the consumer and check
their understanding.
Therefore, it seems that the FCA position is that there should, if anything, be additional
safeguards and protections for consumers in pension transfers like this one. I think Scottish
Widows requirement does provide some added safeguard and so I think it is consistent with
the regulators approach as Scottish Widows says it is.
Given these conclusions, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Im not satisfied that Scottish Widows has acted unfairly.
Mr W didnt agree. He responded and said, in summary:
The complaint is only about the requirement for the IFA to undertake the 
administration of the transfer.
He was well aware of the nature of his pension and the limited guarantees.
Scottish Widows accepted that he had a good understanding.
If this requirement is widespread and common industry practice, that does not make 
it fair or helpful to customers). 
It is an unfair imposition and cost to the consumer who should have the choice as to 
whether they can cope with the paperwork themselves or require professional help. 
He doesnt agree that this approach is "supported by the FCA".
He had demonstrated in numerous calls his personal understanding of what he was 
doing and had offered to sign a disclaimer. No further safeguard was required on the 
actual decision to move the funds.
Scottish Widows reiterated that it was entitled to set its terms of business in accordance with 
its own appetite for risk. Mr W was made aware of the requirement in telephone calls with it 
before the transfer took place.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, I remain of the 
view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I confirm the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision which are set out above. 
Fundamentally, Scottish Widows is entitled to determine how it conducts its business. The 
requirement that an IFA handle the transfer itself, as opposed to just providing advice, isnt 
unlawful and doesnt contravene any regulatory requirement.
As I said, the FCA has expressed concerns about transfers out of defined benefit pension 
scheme for many years. In its policy statement (PS20/6) on pension transfer advice
from 2020, it restated its concerns and commented on the number of consumers who
had transferred away from pension schemes with guaranteed benefits in recent years. Its
view is that the number of transfers is too high, and it questions if the transfers are always in
a consumers best interests, even if they are suitable.
I do appreciate that Mr Ws pension had a limited guarantee and wasnt a typical defined 
benefit scheme. But it was caught by the relevant requirement for advice. I think the 
requirements of Scottish Widows, must be viewed in the context of the FCAs approach that 
Ive set out above. And, again, it is entitled to set the terms upon which it conducts its 
business having regard to its own appetite for risk.
I note what Mr W says about his own awareness, but I remain of the view that the 
requirement for the transfer to be handled by an IFA provided an additional safeguard. It 
may be that Mr W didnt need that safeguard (as he insists), but I think its reasonable to 
think that other consumers may do. I think this is evidenced by the FCAs view that there are 
still too many transfers out of defined benefit schemes.
Mr W was made aware of the requirement to involve an IFA before the transfer took place 
and he went ahead on that basis. I appreciate that his decision may have been shaped by 
his wider position and the other funds he was transferring, but he didnt have to proceed on 
these terms if he didnt wish to. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman