DRN-3705157
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC have closed his current account. 
Mr C is being represented, but for ease I have referred to him throughout. 
What happened
Mr C has a current account with Barclays which it decided to close. Mr C didnt think this was 
fair, so he complained. Barclays responded to say it decided to close the account because 
Mr C was using a personal account for non-personal use, which wasnt allowed. It didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr C asked our service for an independent review. 
The investigator concluded Barclays has acted fairly and didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. In her view Barclays had been entitled to close the account given the way 
it was being used, and she was satisfied Barclays had given Mr C enough notice of its 
intention to close the account.  
Mr C didnt agree. He considered the account had been closed due to sanctions imposed on 
people of his nationality, rather than because of the way that he was using it. In his view hed 
been treated differently because of his nationality, and that was not fair. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account terms and conditions set out how each party can close it. For Barclays to close 
an account they say:
[Barclays] can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) 
by giving you at least two months notice.
There are other terms and conditions which say Barclays can close an account immediately 
or on less notice in certain circumstances, but those dont apply here as Barclays gave Mr C 
two months notice.
The terms and conditions also say:
[Barclays] can close an account (or stop providing a service) if [Barclays] find out you are 
using a personal account for non-personal use. 
Barclays has provided copies of Mr Cs account statements. These show considerably more 
transactions than you would expect from a personal account. I can also see references to 
payments being for invoices, expenses and salaries. I find it was reasonable for Barclays to 
consider this non-personal use. Barclays has also provided copies of correspondence sent 
to Mr C highlighting how he was using the account and asking him to stop using the account 
for non-personal use. 
As the account continued to be used for non-personal use, Barclays decided to close the 
account and gave Mr C two months notice, which was the appropriate notice. Im satisfied 
Barclays actions here were fair and reasonable.
I accept Mr C considers his nationality was a factor in Barclays decision to close his 
account. But I havent seen any compelling evidence to persuade me that was the case. It 
follows Im not satisfied Barclays treated Mr C differently because of his nationality. 
My final decision
My final decision, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman