DRN-2819070
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc incorrectly raised a chargeback on his account 
that he didnt request.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr G says he didnt request the chargeback, but I can see that he did originally raise 
a dispute in August 2020 in relation to a payment to Sky, as he said his mother had 
already made the payment. Barclays asked for evidence of this but didnt receive 
anything so the dispute was closed. But Mr G had got back in touch with Barclays on 
8 September 2020 when he emailed the evidence they requested. However, this was 
only picked up by Barclays on 15 October 2020, who then processed a new 
chargeback and credited Mr Gs account with the disputed amount.
I appreciate that Mr G had already had the money refunded by Sky at that point, and 
that the chargeback was no longer needed. But Barclays wouldnt have been aware 
of this, as Sky had credited a different account. Mr G also followed up his request on 
8 September 2020, indicating that he wanted to proceed with the dispute, and I 
cannot see that he told Barclays that he no longer wanted it to process the 
chargeback. Barclays also wrote to Mr G on 15 October 2020 informing him that it 
had raised a new chargeback and had credited his account. I understand he is 
unhappy that they did not attempt to call him to explain this, but I dont think Barclays 
have acted unfairly by sending him a letter instead.
Mr G said he didnt know what the money was for when it was credited to his 
account. But given that he had previously raised a chargeback and hadnt cancelled 
it, I think he ought reasonably to have known what the credit was for. Indeed, if it was 
a payment that he didnt recognise, then it wouldve been prudent to check where it 
had come from with Barclays before deciding whether to spend it or not.
I appreciate that Barclays continuing with the chargeback caused Sky to re-debit the 
amount from a different account held by Mr Gs, which he said left him in a difficult 
position financially and caused him distress and inconvenience, as he had to borrow 
money and couldnt afford to pay bills. I also appreciate he has had to spend time 
and effort towards sorting this out with Barclays. However, they hadnt been informed 
that Sky had already reimbursed the amount that was the subject of the initial 
chargeback he had raised. I also note that, although the money was re-debited by 
Sky, the amount credited by Barclays has remained in his account, meaning he has 
not suffered any financial loss in this respect.
I do acknowledge that Barclays are partly to blame, however, because they 
processed the chargeback again based on information Mr G had sent them on 
8 September 2020, which I think wouldve added to the confusion. But Barclays has 
already paid a total of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its error, which Mr G does not consider to be commensurate to the experience he 
has had. I understand he was temporarily left in a difficult position and has also 
incurred costs through having to call Barclays (which I can see it has factored into its 
offer of compensation). But in order to award further compensation to Mr G, I would 
have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of Barclays have had a greater impact 
than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which Im not persuaded it has. 
Therefore, I consider £200 to be fair compensation in these circumstances.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr G. But, in the circumstances, I do not 
consider that Barclays needs to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman