DRN-1779675
 
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) revoked her credit card account and then 
passed it to their collections department.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs Y and HSBC, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  So I look at the 
issues raised and then consider all the available evidence in order to see if the business has 
acted fairly. 
Where the evidence is not complete, then I think about what is more likely to have happened 
in the light of the evidence which is available. I take into account both sides views in 
considering whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs Y.
The heart of this complaint goes back to 1984, because that is when Mrs Y says that her 
then bank manager advised that putting in place the auto-sweep facility on her accounts 
would be sufficient to ensure there were adequate funds in her account to meet her direct 
debits. Unfortunately that was 36 years ago and there is no longer any direct evidence for 
me to consider whether that was what was agreed. Having said that I can accept that it is 
Mrs Ys recollection.
But the problem which has arisen does not rest solely on that agreement. In Mrs Ys case 
the problem arose because there were insufficient funds in the account which led to direct 
debits being reversed and thus several missed payments to her credit card account. As a 
result, HSBC wrote to Mrs Y in April May and July 2019 to advise her of her overdue 
balance, but unfortunately Mrs Y didnt get those letters because she was away on an 
extended holiday for some months.
As a consequence of Mrs Y not responding to those letters, HSBC revoked her card and 
passed her account to their collections department. I appreciate that Mrs Y feels that is 
unfair, but I do not agree. When faced with the missed payments, HSBC responded 
appropriately and reasonably by writing to Mrs Y. They did not know she was on an 
extended holiday since she did not tell them. I think it is reasonable to expect anyone going on an extended holiday of some months to 
have in place an arrangement for ensuring that correspondence is either forwarded to them 
or dealt with in their absence. Sadly in this case it appears Mrs Y didnt have anything in 
place which would have allowed the HSBC letters to be read and then instructions taken 
from her. That led to her missing those important letters from HSBC, which is very 
unfortunate but it is not an issue I can attribute to HSBC.
So, although Mrs Y will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say HSBC acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. Issues arose with Mrs Ys account and HSBC wrote to her to 
try to address them. In the absence of any response, it was reasonable for HSBC to follow 
their procedures and pass the account to their collections department and revoking her card. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman