DRN-2624658
The complaint
Mr J has complained on behalf of Mrs B that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a 
claim under a home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mrs B made a claim to Aviva that the electrical installation in her home had been damaged 
during a thunderstorm. She said when the storm was overhead she heard a loud crash from 
the hall where her consumer unit was in an under stairs cupboard. She said a neighbour 
who is an electrician reset the circuit breakers. Later it was discovered that the lighting 
circuits in part of Mrs Bs house had failed and power was lost to some sockets. A 
neighbouring property had been struck by lightning during the storm.
Aviva arranged for an electrician to carry out an inspection. He reported that the electrical 
installation was old and in poor condition.
Aviva declined the claim. It said the storm had highlighted the existing poor condition of the 
electrical wiring in the property. It thought the cause of the damage was wear and tear 
and/or gradual deterioration which werent covered by Mrs Bs policy.
Mr J brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She thought Aviva 
had acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions.
As Mr J didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a storm complaint, we generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
I accept that there was a thunderstorm in the area of the property at the relevant time and 
that lightning can cause electrical damage  for example, by causing a power surge. 
Ive looked at whether lightning was the main cause of the damage claimed for. In doing so I 
place the most weight on the report from the electrician since he is appropriately qualified. 
His overall assessment of Mrs Bs electrical installation was that it was unsatisfactory and in 
poor condition throughout. He referred to the lighting circuit having rubber casing and the 
earthing requiring attention. He recommended urgent remedial action for a large number of 
items.
The onus is on a policyholder to show its more likely than not that an insured event, in this 
case lightning, caused the damage theyre claiming for. If they cant, then their claim wont 
succeed. Unfortunately for Mrs B, I dont think shes done enough to show that she has a 
valid claim. Theres no evidence that the house was struck by lightning. Based on the 
electricians report I dont think Aviva treated her unfairly in concluding that the storm 
highlighted the existing poor condition of Mrs Bs wiring and the main cause of the damage 
was wear and tear and/or gradual deterioration. I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to 
rely on those exclusions to decline her claim. This sort of insurance isnt intended to cover 
general maintenance issues.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman