DRN-2975937
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) allowed his brother access to his business 
account, after Mr F had told Lloyds to remove access. Mr F says Lloyds failure to do so 
caused a family fallout and caused him to lose business.
Mr F brings this complaint on behalf of his company, L Limited.  
What happened
In June 2020, Mr F parted company with his business partner, who was also his brother. His 
brother set up a similar company in the same field. Mr F called Lloyds to remove his 
brothers access from L Limiteds bank account.
On 15 April 2021, Mr F discovered his brother had access to his online banking. The next 
day, Mr F went to his local branch to get his brother removed, which he was told would take 
four working days. Mr F asked for his brother to be removed more quickly, because there 
was sensitive information relating to an investment Mr Fs father made given Mr F, but hadnt 
told Mr Fs brother about.
Lloyds failed to remove Mr Fs brothers online access, despite Mr F complaining three 
times. Lloyds offered £250 in compensation and eventually removed access on 10 May 
2021. However, by that time, Mr Fs brother had discovered his fathers £50,000 loan and 
had seen commercially sensitive information including salary payments and what Mr F pays 
his suppliers and sub-contractors.
Mr F says his father is threatening to withdraw the £50,000 loan, that Lloyds failings have 
caused a family dispute, and that his business will no longer be able to apply for large 
contracts, if he has to repay the £50,000 loan.
Lloyds issued three final response letters, the last of which was dated 8 May 2021. Lloyds 
acknowledged the mistakes it had made, paid £100 in compensation and offered a further 
£150 (which Mr F declined).
Because Mr F was unhappy with Lloyds outcome, he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint and said Lloyds should pay L Limited a total of 
£700 in compensation. She said Lloyds failed to remove access in the first instance, then 
took 11 working days longer than it should have to fix the problem.
She said she understood the impact Lloyds actions had had on Mr Fs family life, but 
couldnt award compensation in that regard, because the complaint was brought by L 
Limited, and not Mr F. She also noted that Mr Fs father had not withdrawn his investment, 
as he had threatened, so the damage to L Limiteds business Mr F was concerned about 
hadnt actually happened.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings. He said his father was going to recall the 
£50,000 from the business, which meant he couldnt pitch for a £500,000 contract he would 
otherwise have been able to pitch for. Our investigator gave the matter further consideration, 
but didnt change her findings. She said Mr F had told her his fathers payment was a 10-
year loan, so was six-and-a-half years away from maturing. All of which meant L Limited 
didnt have to repay the funds early.
Mr F remained unhappy, so he asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds accepts it made mistakes in that it didnt action Mr Fs request when he first made it, 
and that it failed to act promptly when the original error came to light. So all that is left for me 
to decide is what Lloyds needs to do to put matters right for L Limited.
Having looked at the evidence Mr F has provided, I will ask Lloyds to put things right for L 
Limited, but I wont ask it to pay more than our investigator suggested. Ill explain why.
This complaint is brought by L Limited, because that is Lloyds customer i.e. the contract 
here is between Lloyds and L Limited. Because of that, I can look at things like damage to 
reputation, loss of business and inconvenience caused to L Limited, but I cant look at any 
distress Mr F has experienced personally.
In terms of losses suffered by L Limited, in order to award compensation for lost business, I 
would need to see evidence to satisfy me it has suffered losses. Although Mr F has told us 
he cant pitch for another £500,000 contract, Ive seen no evidence to support that claim. 
Further, Mr F says that the harm caused here was due to his father recalling the £50,000 
loan. But Ive seen no evidence to demonstrate that the loan funds have been recalled, and 
Mr F has told our service the loan is not repayable for a further six-and-a-half years. So, its 
within L Limiteds power to retain the funds. 
If Mr F chooses to do so out of family loyalty that would of course be understandable, but 
that doesnt appear to have happened yet, so I cant reasonably hold Lloyds liable for a loss 
that may or may not happen at some point in the future. And, if Mr F does choose to return 
the funds voluntarily, that would be one step removed from Lloyds actions, so Im not 
persuaded it would be appropriate to hold Lloyds responsible.
With that being said, I accept Lloyds mistakes caused harm to L Limited. Its competitor had 
access to its bank account and L Limited was put to inconvenience by its director (Mr F) 
having to take time away from the business to deal with the issue. Mr F hasnt provided any 
evidence to demonstrate that L Limited lost business because of Lloyds mistakes, but Im 
satisfied L Limited will have suffered harm, simply because its competitor had access to 
commercially sensitive data. And, while it is difficult to quantify what harm was caused, Im 
satisfied £700 is fair compensation, in view of what Ive said above.
I understand Mr F feels strongly about his complaint. And that this wasnt the outcome he 
was hoping for. But, for the reasons Ive set out in this decision, I consider £700 represents 
fair compensation, in view of the particular circumstances of this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay L Limited a further £600, in addition to 
the £100 it has already paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman