DRN-1690021
 
The complaint
Mrs M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a store card in 1999. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld, because he didnt think Mrs 
M wouldve bought the policy if shed had better information about its cost and benefit. 
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because I think if better information about the 
policys costs and benefits had been provided by AXA, its unlikely Mrs M would have taken 
it out. 
The information AXA gave Mrs M about the cost and benefit wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. I say this because although Mrs M may have been told the cost was £1.00 per 
£100 of the outstanding balance, I think its unlikely she wouldve been told that the premium 
would be added to her store card balance and could attract interest. I also think its unlikely 
that AXA pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 15% in real terms, as Mrs M 
would have to continue paying the premium while receiving the policy benefit.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs M because at the point of sale she's said she was 
entitled to generous sick pay from her employer, and that she had savings worth between six 
and twelve months of her pay. So she doesnt appear to have had a strong need for the 
policy, given she had other ways to meet the store card repayments for a while without it.
AXA considers it's unlikely Mrs M was entitled to the sick pay she's mentioned, given the 
length of time she'd been in her job. It also considers Mrs M should provide further details 
about the savings she says she had. I've noted everything AXA has said. 
I'm mindful that Mrs M has been consistent in what's she's said about the amount of savings 
she says she had. And given the amount of time that's passed since the policy was sold, I don't think it would be fair or reasonable to expect her to provide more details about 
those savings. On balance I think it's reasonable for me to accept what she's said.
So even if Mrs M's employer sick pay wasn't as much as she's claimed, I still think the 
combination of her sick pay and savings would've been enough to mean she could've met 
her store card repayments for a while without the PPI.
Overall, I dont think Mrs M would still have wanted to take out the policy if she had better 
understood its cost and limited benefit to her. 
So I think Mrs M has been disadvantaged as a result of AXAs failings in this case, because I 
dont think she would have taken out the policy if better information had been available.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs M 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs M would 
have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Mrs M in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman