DRN-4255616
The complaint
Ms C and Mr L complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money they lost 
in a scam.
What happened
Ms C and Mr L have a joint account with HSBC and are represented in this case. As Mr L 
made the payments and has been involved in the dispute, Ill mainly refer to him in my 
decision.  
Mr L says that he found out about an investment that was endorsed by a well-known money 
expert and provided his contact details. He then received a call from someone from a 
company Ill refer to as E. Mr L didnt know at the time, but the caller was a scammer who 
was using the details of a genuine company. The scammer explained how the investment 
worked. Mr L says he completed an internet search and didnt find anything untoward, and 
he decided to go ahead. He was provided with a trading account and could see his 
payments being credited to his account and the profit he earned. The scammer kept in 
regular contact with Mr L.
Between 27 June 2022 and 27 August 2022 Mr L made payments towards his investment. 
When he tried to withdraw his funds, he was advised of various fees he would need to pay. 
Mr L received fake emails purportedly from the cryptocurrency exchange advising of a 
confirmation fee, capital gains tax and other fees. The payments he made from October 
2022 relate to these fees. 
Mr L made the following faster payments to a cryptocurrency exchange. The scammer them 
helped Mr L move funds to the trading platform. 
Date Amount
27/06/22 £100
28/06/22 £2
30/06/22 £2,000
25/07/22 £5,000
05/08/22 £999
27/08/22 £5,500
19/10/22 £13,950
20/10/22 £19,930
21/10/22 £19,600
26/10/22 £17,450
31/10/22 £19,957
Total £104,488
Mr L realised he was the victim of a scam when he kept being asked for further funds and 
contacted the genuine company the scammer was impersonating and was told there were 
no pending payments. Mr L reported the scam to HSBC in a call on 10 November 2022. 
After reviewing the evidence HSBC said that the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) doesnt apply in this case as Mr L made the 
scam payments to an account in his own name at a cryptocurrency exchange. HSBC noted 
that the payment of £2,000 on 30 June 2022 was held for additional checks and its fraud 
team spoke to Mr L. In this call Mr L said that he was doing a personal stock investment that 
involved various currencies, he had already received returns of around £1,700, that he was 
doing the investment alone and no third party had advised him to mislead HSBC. As a result, 
the transaction was processed, and HSBC say there was no bank error.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint initially recommended that it be upheld in full. 
He said initally that HSBCs intervention on 30 June 2023 didnt go far enough and that had 
it asked further questions the spell would have been broken and the scam uncovered. HSBC 
were unhappy with the investigators view and raised various points about the fact Mr L had 
misled HSBC in calls and so even if it had done more Ms C and Mr Ls loss wouldnt have 
been prevented. HSBC also said that the investigator was wrong to say Mr L did enough 
research before investing.
The investigator gathered further evidence and ultimately issued a second view in which he 
maintained that HSBC didnt do enough when it spoke to Mr L but went on to say that Ms C 
and Mr L should only be awarded 50% of their loss. Ms C and Mr L accepted this view, but 
HSBC didnt. In summary, HSBC raised the following points:
- Payments were made to an account at a cryptocurrency exchange that Mr L had 
access to and control of and the loss was from this account. 
- Theres clear evidence from the messages Mr L exchanged with the scammer that he 
was being coached about what to say ahead of any possible intervention by his bank. 
HSBC quoted messages from the scammer a few days before that Ill refer to below. 
HSBC also referred to a message from the scammer in October 2022 when the 
scammer was still advising Mr L not to tell his bank what was really happening. Mr 
Ls response was, Not to worry the transactionis ostensibly about paying off some 
debtas far as the banks concerned. 
- When HSBC did intervene on 30 June 2022, Mr L knowingly misled it. During this call 
Mr L confirmed he was doing some personal investment alone and without coercion. 
When asked if he was investing in cryptocurrency Mr L said No, this is stocks. Mr L 
also said that nobody had advised him on how to answer HSBCs questions or to 
mislead HSBC.
- HSBC intervened in an earlier payment on 23 June 2022. Mr L was honest in his 
responses and the loss was prevented. 
- Mr L would have proceeded to make the payment irrespective of what HSBC said in 
the call on 30 June 2022. Mr L was entirely under the spell of the scammer. This 
service has made an assumption in saying Mr L would have disclosed he was 
investing in cryptocurrency. 
- Mr L had paid the same beneficiary prior to the scam for seemingly genuine reasons 
and without the involvement of a third party. 
- In the event the complaint is upheld Mr L should bear 50% responsibility for his 
investment loss as he didnt do enough to check the legitimacy of the investment or 
pick up on obvious red flags like being asked to lie to his bank. He invested a huge amount of money without fully understanding what he was getting involved in and 
without seeking independent advice. HSBC went further and said Mr L should be fully 
responsible for his loss from the point he was asked to pay fees. 
The complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
The CRM Code only applies to faster payments between UK GDP accounts, so it isnt 
relevant here.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The first payments Mr L made from his joint account with Ms C (of £100 and £2) were 
unremarkable so I wouldnt have expected HSBC to intervene when the payment requests 
were made. HSBC blocked the £2,000 payment on 30 June 2022 and had a conversation 
with Mr L about it. 
Before I consider what was discussed in that call, I think it would be useful to provide some 
background information. HSBC blocked a payment of £5,000 shortly before the scam 
transactions, on 23 June 2022. Mr L says this payment wasnt linked to the scam although 
the position is unclear as Mr L refers to the same celebrity providing tips about this 
investment, and he was messaging the scammer at the time. In any event the payment was 
flagged, and Mr L was asked if hed checked the FCA website and made sure he was not 
dealing with a cloned company. The call ended and Mr L called back asking that the 
payment be cancelled as he couldnt find the company on the FCA list. He was then asked 
if hed been told what to say, or advised to mislead the bank, and if a third party asked him to 
make the payment. Mr L answered Yes to these questions and the payment wasnt made. 
So, HSBC was on notice that Mr L was potentially falling victim to a scam just before its 
intervention on 30 June 2022. 
Ive listened carefully to Mr Ls call with HSBC on 30 June 2022. Having done so its clear 
that before HSBC asked any questions Mr L made a point of answering any concern HSBC 
might have about it upfront. I appreciate this was because he was being coached, a point Ill come on to address. Mr L told HSBC that he was doing some personal investment by 
himself with limited success and went on to say there was no coercion or third-party 
involvement. His words sounded scripted, and I think HSBC ought to have picked up on the 
fact that before it asked any questions Mr L covered these points. 
When asked about the purpose of the payment Mr L talked about shares going up and 
down. When he was specifically asked if he was investing in cryptocurrency Mr L said he 
wasnt and referred to stocks and currency. But he was transferring funds to a 
cryptocurrency exchange, so I think it was clear something was amiss, particularly given 
what I have said above. HSBC didnt probe this point. Mr L was also asked what attracted 
him to the investment and he named the celebrity he thought was endorsing it. This ought to 
have been a clear red flag to HSBC as the celebrity Mr L named has made it very clear that 
investments that are said to be endorsed by him are fake.
I accept that Mr L wasnt entirely truthful in his call with HSBC. For example, in response to 
questions asked, Mr L said that nobody had told him how to answer the banks questions 
and that he had checked the FCA website. And I acknowledge the points HSBC has made 
about the chat conversation between Mr L and the scammer. In this chat, shortly before the 
£2,000 transaction, the scammer said, 
Since its crypto investment, its very sensitive subject for banks as you understand, so 
sometimes you have to call them and tell them that you are doing it on your own, and 
nobody is telling you to do that and nobody is connected through anydesk and in general 
theres no third party involved in the transaction so they can make sure that you are making 
this deposit by yourself. And, in relation to questions that might be asked,
If you are doing it by yourself alone, if anyone is connected to your computer, or if theres 3rd 
party is involved. As long as they understand that none of these questions are positive they 
will approve the transaction, otherwise it will be cancelled.
Given the above comments, and others in the chat with the scammer, its clear that Mr L was 
coached about what to tell HSBC. But HSBC, as the expert here, ought to have been aware 
that victims are often coached by scammers to lie to various parties to ensure the scam is 
successful. As a result, HSBC should go beyond simply asking questions and probe unusual 
answers or behaviour. I have referred above to multiple red flags for HSBC that werent 
picked up on. Whilst Mr L may not immediately have told the truth about what was 
happening, I consider that he couldnt possibly have given a plausible response to some 
questions and that had HSBC said the celebrity Mr L referred to never endorses or 
advertises investments the scam would have been uncovered. 
Overall, I consider the information Mr L gave HSBC was so concerning that it ought to have 
done more to protect him from financial harm and that had it done so its more likely than not 
the scam would have been uncovered. 
Im also not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Mr Ls own account and so 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within his control means that HSBC isnt liable 
here. This is because by January 2019, banks like HSBC had, or ought to have had, a good 
enough understanding of how these scams work  including that a customer often moves 
money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to the scammer - to have 
been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr L should share responsibility for his loss. I think he 
should, for the following reasons:
- Mr L invested a significant amount of money for someone who has been described 
by his representative as an inexperienced investor. I consider that any investor 
should complete research and that someone investing more significant sums should 
take particular care to ensure the opportunity is genuine.
- Communication with the scammer was via a messaging app not commonly used by legitimate investment companies.
- Mr L wasnt provided with any form of contract or terms of business by E. 
- Mr L ought reasonably to have had concerns about the use of a screen sharing app. I 
dont consider a genuine investment company would use such an app and I think Mr 
Ls background in IT ought reasonably to have made him concerned about it. 
- Mr L says he looked up E and found a genuine company. Ive looked this company 
up on Companies House and can see that the company is involved in real estate and 
not cryptocurrency trading. 
- I consider it ought to have been a red flag to Mr L that he was repeatedly asked to lie 
to his bank. I dont consider a legitimate investment company would ask a client to do 
this. Mr L didnt ask questions about misleading his bank. 
- The reasons for the payments became more implausible as Mr L sought to withdraw 
his funds and the total amount Mr L paid to withdraw them far exceeded his original 
investment (which also indicates the returns were too good to be true). I appreciate 
Mr L received some emails purportedly from the cryptocurrency exchange advising 
him of fees, but these were poorly written.
Im not satisfied that Mr L should be held fully responsible for the loss from his joint account 
from the point he was asked to pay fees to release his funds as HSBC suggests. Ive 
concluded that HSBC, as the fraud expert, didnt do enough when it had the opportunity to 
uncover the scam so it should bear some responsibility. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear that Ms C and Mr L have lost funds in this way, I cant 
reasonably ask HSBC to refund them in full. 
My final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
- Refund 50% of all payments from and including the £2,000 transaction on 30 June 
2022 onwards; and
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each transaction to the date of settlement.
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms C and Mr L how much it has taken off. It should also give them 
a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman