DRN-2750516
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has not properly compensated her for the sale of 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mrs P took out four loans with Lloyds between August 2001 and December 2003. The loan 
account numbers ended 4256, 6430, 4741 and 3198.
Each loan was sold with a single premium PPI policy. The policies were all funded by single 
premiums which were added to the loans.
The four loans formed a chain, so each new loan was partly used to clear the preceding 
loan.
At some point Mrs P got into financial difficulties with the final loan in the chain. And Lloyds 
sold the outstanding debt to a third party. So at that point Mrs P no longer owed the debt to 
Lloyds but instead she owed the third party.
Mrs P later complained to Lloyds about the sale of the PPI policies.
In November 2019 Lloyds agreed to uphold Mrs Ps complaints about the sale of the four 
PPI policies. 
In its letter Lloyds offered to pay Mrs P a total of £9,000.46 (after tax had been deducted). 
My understanding is that Mrs P received a cheque for this amount.
After receiving the cheque Mrs P paid the third party £5,876.08 which was the amount still 
outstanding on the fourth loan.
Mrs P thinks Lloyds should have taken into consideration the outstanding debt when 
calculating the compensation due.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Lloyds has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policies. So I wont look 
into how the PPI policies came to be sold to Mrs P.
In this decision I am looking at whether Lloyds has fairly compensated Mrs P for the sale of 
the policies.
Having done so I think Lloyds has fairly compensated Mrs P. And I will explain why.
When a PPI policy is found to have been mis-sold the business needs to take steps to put 
the consumer in the financial position theyd be in if the PPI had not been sold.
This usually mean the business should refund all the cost of the PPI to the consumer and 
pay compensatory interest normally calculated at 8% simple per year.
I can see that Lloyds has calculated the extra Mrs P paid each month on each loan because 
PPI was added to it. And it has refunded this amount. It has also calculated and paid 
compensatory interest of 8% simple per year for the time Mrs P was out of pocket.
When each loan in the chain was settled early the PPI policy was cancelled. The policy 
insurer then paid a rebate for the unused part of the PPI premium. This was used to loan 
balance. But this rebate didnt remove all the PPI premium and some of the cost of the PPI 
would have been carried over to the following loan. This is called residual PPI, and Lloyds 
needed to refund to Mrs P the cost of this residual PPI plus interest at 8% simple. I can see 
Lloyds has calculated and refunded the residual PPI, this is shown in row H of its offer 
letter.
So I am satisfied that Lloyds has refunded everything extra Mrs P paid because PPI was 
added to her loans. And it has also paid her compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple 
for the time she has been out of pocket, which I consider to be a fair rate of interest.
Mrs P has questioned why she had to use £5,876.08 of the compensation to clear the 
outstanding debt with the third party.
The PPI compensation put Mrs P in the position shed have been in if the PPI had not been 
sold. The PPI compensation is not intended to compensate Mrs P for the loan itself.
If Lloyds had not sold the debt to a third party then Mrs P would likely have owed Lloyds 
£5,876.08 instead of the third party. And it is likely Lloyds would have used £5,876.08 of the 
compensation to clear the outstanding debt before passing the remaining compensation to 
Mrs P. And I would have thought that fair.
.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has fairly compensated Mrs P for the mis-sale of 
the PPI with her loans
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman