DRN-2809350
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), increased the cost of a pet insurance 
policy when he made a claim because the adult weight of his dog (Alfie) exceeded the
weight band he had selected when taking out the policy.
What happened
 Mr C took out a pet lifetime policy with Aviva in April 2019. When he applied online, through
a third party who acted as an administrator for Aviva, he was asked to select the adult weight
of Alfie. Mr C selected 10-20 kg and the policy premium was calculated on this basis.
On 18 March 2020, Mr C called Aviva and told them Alfie was now 23 kg and that there may 
be a claim as Alfie was at the vets having his eyes looked at. Mr C said he wanted to ensure 
Alfie he was still covered. Aviva confirmed theyd review the premium and tell him what the 
new premium would be. Later the same day, Aviva called Mr C and told him the new annual 
premium would be £816.00, which would mean an additional payment of £507.41. They said 
they would take this amount with the last monthly instalment by direct debit on 30 March.
Aviva collected the revised final premium, and shortly Aviva received a claim from Mr Cs 
vets for treatment Alfie received between 18 and 23 March. Aviva paid out the £422.60 claim 
in full, less the policy excess of £90. 
Mr C complained to Aviva that there was a significant rise in premiums for dogs above 20 kg,
which he considered unreasonable. He also said he had acted reasonably in predicting
Alfies adult weight at the time.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint and said Mr C had been provided with a clear instruction
that the weight of Alfie should be his adult weight, and Mr C chose to select 10-20 kg. Aviva
went on to say that if Mr C had selected the above 20 kg category, the premium would have
been £816.00 for the year. Aviva said it was reasonable for Mr C to have researched Alfies
likely adult weight before selecting the lower weight category. Mr C didnt agree with Aviva
and he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought that Aviva hadnt done anything
wrong. The investigator accepted that Mr C felt the price bandings used by Aviva are limited
but explained that these are the categories Aviva used to base their pricing on, and they can
calculate their pricing this way.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsman to decide his
complaint.
As I reached a different conclusion to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision and 
asked both Mr C and Aviva for any further evidence or comments. In my provisional decision 
I said:
I acknowledge Mr C has told me he believes I should look at how Aviva only used 
three weight categories in calculating their premiums. However, I dont have the 
power to tell a business what their insurance should cost or what the pricing bands 
should be. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how they should 
operate  and thats not my role. All insurers take a number of different factors into 
account when doing this calculation and thats not something we will interfere with.
The crux of this complaint is whether Aviva is entitled to request the premium they 
would have charged if Mr C had declared the adult weight of Alfie as over 20 kg.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer 
fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - 
what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on different 
terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. CIDRA sets 
out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on 
whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care when he declared the adult weight of 
Alfie would be 10-20 kg. Aviva has shown us that the annual premium for an adult 
dog over 20 kg was £816.00.
Mr C says it is incredibly difficult to predict the adult weight of a cross-breed dog with 
any degree of accuracy. And he says it was reasonable to base his answer on the 
weight of Alfies mother as an adult dog.
Im satisfied that it was unreasonable for Mr C to simply rely on the weight of a 
female dog and not a male dog, particularly as the selected weight of 20 kg was right 
on the cusp of the weight band. I think it would have been reasonable for Mr C to 
have sought guidance from a vet, or a breeder, or indeed Aviva. This would have 
provided a degree of accuracy when predicting the adult weight of Alfie.
In cases like this the onus is on Aviva to ensure any questions on the online 
application are clear, and that there is no ambiguity that would unwittingly lead Mr C 
to provide an incorrect or misleading answer. Aviva asked Mr C to select the adult 
weight of Alfie from choices in a drop-down box, and the screen-shot I have seen 
makes it clear what categories Aviva used to calculate the premium. I dont think this 
was an ambiguous question. It highlighted that Aviva would base their pricing on the 
adult weight of Alfie and the weight bands they used. And although the answer may 
have needed a little thought or research, this doesnt make it an unreasonable 
question.
Having seen that the premium for a dog over 20 kg wouldve been £816.00, I think 
its reasonable for me to conclude Aviva wouldve charged this premium for the policy 
if Mr C had disclosed the adult weight of Alfie as over 20 kg. Mr C has said that he 
feels the difference between the premium for dog up to 20 kg is significant, but I dont 
consider this is a reason not to have answered the question Aviva asked with more 
care.
Therefore, I have decided that Mr Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one and I 
am satisfied Aviva can take some action.CIDRA says any action should be limited to action Aviva wouldve taken had it not 
been for the careless representation of Mr C. CIDRA also says that it is unfair that 
Aviva requested the additional premium they did, as this didnt consider whether Mr 
C is unlikely to have taken on the policy with such a significant increase.
Ive seen the premium for a 10-20 kg dog was £308.59, and the premium for a dog 
over 20 kg was £816.00. In this case, Mr C paid a proportion of the premium he 
would have paid if he had selected the over 20 kg weight band. CIDRA says that 
Aviva can keep the policy in place, but settle any current claims proportionately; or, 
cancel the policy, or tell Mr C any future claims will be settled proportionately. There 
wont be any future claims as the policy is no longer in place.
In this case, Aviva only told Mr C to pay the amended premium after they paid his 
claim in full. Aviva didnt tell Mr C the policy could be cancelled, or that it could be 
kept in place with further claims being settled proportionately. I dont think Aviva 
acted reasonably here and I think this has caused some difficulties for Mr C. I will 
explain why I think this is the case. Mr C took out a new lifetime policy with another 
insurer at a lower cost. The new policy says that any illness Alfie had before the 
policy started wont be covered.
I appreciate Mr C no longer has insurance cover if Alfie suffers from Uveitis in the 
future. However, after what he has told us about the ongoing cost of the Aviva policy, 
I think it unlikely Mr C wouldve chosen to renew the policy with them because of the 
increase in premiums over the longer term. And, he made the decision to take out the 
new policy at a lower cost with the exclusion for Uveitis in place.
Aviva shouldve more clearly explained the options available under CIDRA, rather 
than trying to impose a significant premium increase they cant fairly apply. I also feel 
Aviva shouldve considered paying the claim on a proportionate basis, rather than 
paying it in full. If they had done this, the new annual premium based on Alfies adult 
weight of more than 20 kg wouldve been charged at renewal. But, as I have 
explained earlier, I think it is unlikely Mr C wouldve renewed at this premium. And, if 
this was the case, Mr C is now in the same position as he wouldve been in respect 
of the pre-existing illness for Alfie.
I intend telling Aviva they should re-assess and settle the claim on a proportionate 
basis. Their failure to do this, and their ongoing insistence that Mr C should pay the 
amended premium, has caused Mr C frustration and inconvenience. I also note that 
Aviva initially told Mr C the premium would be increased to £1,323.41. Although 
Aviva later accepted this was incorrect this would have added to Mr Cs frustration 
and inconvenience.
Therefore, as well as asking Aviva to recalculate and resettle the claim on a 
proportionate basis, I intend asking them to refund the premium increase they 
charged less the difference between what Aviva paid Mr C and the proportionate 
claim, they shouldve paid him. I have noted Mr Cs comments that Aviva didnt 
handle his complaint well. Whilst I acknowledge the comments, and that complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, I think I should consider this as its ancillary to a 
matter we can consider. It follows on from how Aviva dealt with Mr Cs claim, so I 
also intend asking Aviva to pay Mr C the sum of £150.00 to take into account the 
customer service they provided as a whole when dealing with his claim.Mr C accepted my provisional decision without any further comment, but Aviva provided 
further comments and evidence for me to consider. 
Aviva said that I was wrong to say Mr C was only asked to pay the additional premium once 
the claim had been settled in full. They clarified the claim wasnt received until after the final 
payment. They highlighted their final response letter, which was sent before they received 
the claim from Mr C, explained he could cancel the policy.
Aviva provided transcripts of the two calls they had with Mr C on 18 March 2020 as they 
were unable to provide the actual calls. They say the calls suggest Mr Cs priority was get 
confirmation cover was in place for Alfie.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the timeline of the complaint again, and Im able to confirm that the payment 
for the full premium was collected before Aviva received a claim from Mr C. I apologise that 
my provisional decision said Mr C told to pay the additional premium after Aviva had settled 
the claim. However, I still consider the crux of this complaint is whether Aviva was entitled to 
request the premium they wouldve charged if Mr C had declared the adult weight of Alfie as 
over 20 kg. And, crucially, whether they provided Mr C with the options available to him at 
the time he told them of Alfies weight so that he could make an informed decision on what to 
do.
The final response letter from Aviva does mention that Mr C can choose to cancel the policy, 
and I accept this is the case, but it doesnt provide an option to settle any current or future 
claims proportionately. And the transcripts Aviva have now provided show this option wasnt 
discussed with Mr C at the time. I consider this is unfair on Mr C and I will now explain why.
I agree that when Mr C called Aviva on 18 March, Aviva hadnt been formally been made 
aware of a claim. However, based on the transcripts provided by Aviva, I consider they were 
aware there was likely to be a claim. Indeed, in the first call on 18 March, Mr C specifically 
asked if Alfie would be covered if a claim was made even if his weight exceeded the limit 
disclosed on the application. Aviva said he was. I consider this was the first point at which 
Aviva couldve been clearer with Mr C and explained any claim could be considered 
proportionately.
In the second call, after Aviva had provided the amended cost of the policy, Mr C said that 
he felt locked in to the policy because if treatment was required he would need to pay the 
additional premium. Aviva confirmed this was the case, with no discussion of a proportionate 
claim. Mr C again confirmed Alfie was currently having treatment. I consider this was a 
second opportunity for Aviva to tell Mr C a claim could be paid proportionately. 
The final response letter from Aviva, explained Mr C could pay the final instalment of 
£533.13, and if he didnt they would cancel the policy. It also told Mr C he could cancel the 
policy. However, it didnt tell him that one of the options available was that a claim could be 
settled proportionately.
During the telephone calls with Aviva on 18 March, Mr C explained that Alfie was at the vets 
and there may be a claim. Mr C goes on to say any claim would depend on the number of 
tests required, and he will need to decide whether its worth making a claim. I think this is a 
strong indication Mr C was weighing up the options he had in respect of making a claim. So, although I accept Aviva made Mr C aware he could cancel the policy in their final response, 
Im not persuaded they made any attempt to explain a claim could be paid proportionately, in 
line with CIDRA. Mr C wasnt aware this was an option open to him.
In my opinion, this left Mr C in a position where he had to decide on whether he should 
submit a claim without knowing a claim couldve been settled proportionately. So, he paid 
Aviva the additional premium of £507.41 to ensure the claim was met in full. However, the 
claim value was £422.60, and I consider that if Mr C had been provided the option to settle 
the claim proportionately its more likely he wouldve taken this option. I say this because, in 
the second telephone call with Aviva, Mr C explained he was out of work at the time and the 
amended premium was money he didnt really have. The transcript also indicates Mr C 
became distressed at this point. So, Im satisfied it more likely Mr C wouldve taken any 
option that wouldve meant he paid out less than £507.41.
Ive noted Avivas comments that my remedy may not have been the same if the cost of the 
claim had been higher than the additional premium Mr C paid. My decision considers the 
circumstances of this complaint and the impact of Aviva not telling Mr C of all his options. I 
cant speculate what Mr C wouldve done if the claim had been higher than the amount of the 
additional premium.
In my provisional decision I noted Mr Cs comments that Aviva didnt handle his complaint 
well. I acknowledged the comments, and confirmed that complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity, but that its ancillary to a matter we could consider. In their response Aviva accepted 
there were some errors in their final response letters but thought that £150.00 for this was 
too high.  As I explained in my provisional decision, Avivas customer service when dealing 
with Mr Cs claim wouldve caused Mr C some frustration. This seems to have been 
confirmed in the transcripts Aviva have now provided. My proposal of £150.00 took into 
account not just the errors in the final response letters, but also the inconvenience Aviva 
caused Mr C by not telling him a claim could be made proportionately. So, Ive decided Aviva 
should pay Mr C the sum of £150.00 to reflect the impact on Mr C of the customer service 
they provided as a whole.  
Ive considered whether my final decision is significantly different to that of my provisional 
decision and I dont consider it is. Ive amended my final decision to show the claim was 
made after the final premium had been paid, but I dont consider this has materially affected 
my final decision, nor the outcome I proposed in my provisional decision. Im satisfied that 
Aviva did nothing wrong when recalculating the revised premium when Mr C told them Alfies 
weight was 23 kg. However, Im not satisfied Aviva provided Mr C with the option to have 
any claim paid proportionately so that he could make an informed decision on what to do. Im 
satisfied its more likely Mr C wouldve chosen the proportionate claim option if this had been 
discussed.
I considered issuing a further provisional decision for more comments from Mr C and Aviva, 
Im satisfied because the outcome is the same, and both parties have already been given 
the opportunity to comment, it would be reasonable for me to make this decision my final 
decision.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited should:
Reassess Mr Cs claim on a proportionate basis and then deduct that amount from 
the payment that was made;Subtract that figure from the premium increase Mr C was charged and pay him the 
balance; and,
Pay Mr C the sum of £150 to reflect the frustration and inconvenience they caused 
him when dealing with the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman