DRN-2634287
The complaint
Ms C has complained that a question on BISL Limiteds website wasnt clear and led to her 
being charged an additional premium after buying a car insurance policy through it. Ms C is 
unhappy that BISL didnt give her the option to cancel her policy when she called to change 
the mileage. 
All reference to BISL in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In November 2020 Ms C bought a car insurance policy with a broker online through a 
comparison website. The policy is administered by BISL.
The day before the policy was due to start, Ms C received her policy documents and found 
the mileage was recorded incorrectly as up to 4,000 miles. So she called BISL and it 
updated her mileage to 7,000 as she requested. This resulted in an increase in premium, 
which Ms C agreed to pay.
In December 2020 Ms C complained to BISL. She said the website asked her to submit 
mileage in ranges: so she said she ticked a box ranging between 4,000 and 7,000 miles  
with 7,000 miles being closest to her estimate. However, when she received her policy, it 
listed the mileage at 4,000 miles which was at the lower end of the mileage she believed she 
would travel. This prompted her call and she felt it unfair that she should be then asked to 
pay a higher premium when BISL defaulted the mileage to the lower of the range. She felt 
this was a sharp practice and Ms C said BISL should have given her the option to cancel the 
policy when she called. 
BISL said that its question asks for specific mileage and didnt provide a range of mileage 
options to choose from. And as Ms C was happy to pay the additional premium, it said it 
hadnt done anything wrong. 
Ms C asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought BISL had acted in a fair 
way. 
Ms C didnt agree. She believes BISL updated the mileage question since she answered it. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BISL checked the website when Ms C complained to check the question asked about 
mileage. It provided a screenshot to show that this question is an open one and asks a 
customer to provide the mileage. It also provided a screenshot of the information stored for 
Ms C and this shows 4,000 as the answer to the mileage question when she applied for the 
policy.
I understand Ms C says BISL must have updated the question on its website after she raised 
her complaint. But without any evidence to show this is the case, I cant uphold this part of 
her complaint. 
Ive listened to the call between Ms C and BISL the day before her policy was due to start. 
Ms C had received her policy and wanted to update the mileage. She explained that the 
website had given her a range of between 4,000 and 7,000 and so this is the option she 
chose. 
The agent explained that the increase in mileage from 4,000 to 7,000 would mean a 
recalculation of the premium and she confirmed the additional amount would be £32.08. The 
agent then paused and asked Ms C if she was happy to go ahead. Ms C said yes. 
Ms C says it was clear that she was dissatisfied  but having listened to the call I cant 
agree. So I dont think BISL did anything wrong by not offering Ms C the option to cancel her 
policy in this call. If Ms C wasnt happy to pay the increased premium, she was able to let 
BISL know either in the call, or within the cooling off period. When BISL replied to Ms Cs 
complaint in December 2020, it said Ms C could still cancel the policy, but it would charge its 
cancellation fees and for the days she was insured. This information was correct. 
The policy wording Ms C had received explained the cancellation process and BISLs 
charges if she decided to cancel either before or after the cooling off period. So I think Ms C 
had access to this information to allow her to make an informed decision at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman