DRN-3923138
The complaint
Mr J complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) failed to return the 
balance of his credit card account to his nominated bank account. 
What happened
Mr J says he inadvertently sent a balance transfer of £1,000 from his building society credit 
card account in mid-June 2022, to AMEX and on realising his mistake then requested these 
monies to be returned to an account of his choice, but AMEX refused saying it must be 
returned to the original source of origin. 
Mr J says he has spent a huge amount of time trying to get the remaining balance of in 
excess of £840 returned to him without success. Mr J says AMEX havent retuned the 
remaining balance to the correct account. Mr J says he has made numerous requests asking 
AMEX to return the funds to his building society, and although it has told him the funds have 
been returned to his building society, these monies cant be traced  by them. 
Mr J has now closed his credit card account with AMEX but wants them to refund him with 
the amount it says was transferred to his building society, plus 8% interest on this sum, 
compensation for the upset caused of £250 in addition to the compensation already paid and 
the balance transfer fee of £24 refunded. 
AMEX says while it upheld the complaint for misinformation given to Mr J at the time, 
concerning where the balance transfer refund could be paid, it has correctly returned the 
payment to the original source of funds in line with its process. AMEX says it has paid Mr J 
£30 for any inconvenience caused, but it has returned the monies to the original source and 
these monies have not been returned for any reason, so the fault doesnt lie with them. 
Mr J wasnt happy with AMEXs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and partially upheld the complaint. 
Although the investigator felt AMEX provided poor service when it provided conflicting 
information to Mr J at the time, he couldnt ask AMEX to return the funds to anywhere other 
than the original source of funds. The investigator suggested AMEX increase the 
compensation from £30 to £100. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be partially upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have 
come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been stressful and frustrating for Mr J not to be able to 
understand where the refunded balance of his AMEX credit card account had been sent. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if AMEX were at fault for the return of the 
balance of Mr Js credit card account not being received by his building society. 
Mr Js complaint centres around the fact he initially made an error in June 2022, when he 
requested a balance transfer from his building society credit card account to AMEX but 
having done so, AMEX didnt return the funds on his credit card account to his building 
society with the correct account details. Mr J has made the point he has been in constant 
dialogue by letter, telephone and webchat to get this matter resolved, but AMEX failed to 
recover the monies he believes was sent with incorrect details. 
The first thing to say here is from the information I have seen, despite Mr Js frustration, its 
AMEXs process to return any balances like this, to the original source and its not for me to 
tell them it must change that process. Here though, its fair to say AMEX were at fault when 
a member of staff  suggested Mr J could have the return of the balance transfer hed made, 
sent to a designated bank of his choice, and that would have added to the delays and 
confusion here. 
While I can see delays have occurred from when Mr J first raised the issue in mid -June 
2022, some of those delays were as a result of AMEX requesting further information from Mr 
J which was finally received by them in mid- July 2022. Its also fair to say the initial 
information AMEX asked for was reasonable and in line with its process, but when it was 
sent that information on 11 July 2002, I take the view it was slow to identify those documents 
at that time. It wasnt until Mr J contacted AMEX a week or so later that these documents 
could be identified- I cant say that period of delay can be considered Mr Js doing here. 
Its also clear that while this matter was being investigated by AMEX, Mr J lost his building 
society credit card, being the original source of funds, and this was replaced with a new 
credit card and its reasonable to think this may have complicated matters further.
Mr Js main issue however, started on the 29 July 2022 when AMEX says it processed the 
credit balance refund of £843.18 to Mr Js building society, the original source of origin. 
AMEX have maintained throughout it correctly returned the payment to the source of funds 
to Mr Js building society account and we have been provided with documents from AMEX to 
evidence this. I have been provided with a screen shot dated 29 July 2022, that shows the 
payment was sent to Mr Js building society, quoting the sort code and his original credit 
card account number.
So, with that in mind I cant support Mr Js view that AMEX havent sent the payment, as the 
evidence I have seen all points to the fact it did, and it is understandable it would send this to 
the original source from where it was sent. I am satisfied that on balance AMEX have 
returned the funds to Mr Js building society account and for whatever reason his building 
society are unable to trace it, but I cant hold AMEX responsible for that. 
To aid matters AMEX have additionally provided details to this service of the payment 
transaction status reference number, and I will ask the investigator to have these details sent 
to Mr J which may help his building society identify the whereabouts of payment. 
So, although AMEX didnt provide the level of service perhaps it could have during its 
investigation, I am satisfied it isnt responsible for the reason why Mr Js building society 
cant locate the payment  that is something he will need to take up with them. 
Like the investigator I agree a fairer level of redress for the misleading information provided 
by AMEX should be increased to £100 here. While Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of AMEX than that. 
Putting things right
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr J a total of £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint.
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr J a total of £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman