DRN-4374552
The complaint
Mr K complains that Amtrust Europe Limited withdrew cover under his credit protection
insurance policy and turned down his claim.
What happened
Mr Ks car was damaged by a third party and so he called to claim on his car insurance 
policy. Rather than claiming on his car insurance policy he was referred to an accident
management company (AMC) as he said he wasnt at fault for the accident.
The AMC provided Mr K with a hire car and a credit protection insurance policy. The credit
protection insurance policy is designed to cover the hire car and repair charges for Mr K if 
the AMC is unable to reclaim them back from the third party responsible for the accident. At 
the same time Mr K also made a claim for personal injuries which he said hed suffered 
because of the accident. 
During the course of the claim the third party disputed Mr Ks personal injury claim. It said Mr 
K had been seen playing sport and therefore felt his claim was fraudulent. Because of this 
the AMC said it was unable to recover the hire and repair costs from the third partys insurer. 
Amtrust said Mr K had breached the terms of the agreement by prejudicing the ability for the 
hire costs to be recovered. So declined to cover the hire car costs and withdrew cover under 
the policy. 
Mr K didnt think this was fair and complained. Amtrust reviewed the complaint and didnt 
uphold it, so Mr K referred his complaint here. He said Amtrust was refusing to provide cover 
it was obliged to under the policy. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found that 
the terms of the policy allowed Amtrust to decline claims if Mr K did something which 
prevented the AMC recovering the hire charges. And, as Amtrust had shown these couldnt 
be recovered due to the personal injury claim made by Mr K, she didnt think Amtrust had 
acted unfairly. Mr K didnt agree. He said the personal injury claim wasnt relevant. He also 
said hed needed a hire car due to the third partys actions and so the policy should cover 
these. 
As Mr K didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of this policy say Amtrust will not be responsible for:
4.6 Credit Agreement Charges where the Insured;

(c) wilfully or negligently prejudices the Third Party Claim and, in 
particular, their ability to recover the Credit Agreement Charges from 
the Defendant in a Third Party Claim;
Amtrust has shown that the AMC is unable to recover the hire car charges from the third 
party due to Mr K more likely than not making a fraudulent personal injury claim. While I 
understand Mr K thinks the personal injury claim shouldnt be relevant, I disagree. 
I say this because where an aspect of a claim is shown to be fraudulent an insurer is entitled 
to decline the whole claim. So as the third party insurer had concerns over Mr Ks personal 
injury claim, it meant it refused to pay for the hire car costs. And so, Amtrust has shown the 
fraudulent personal injury claim has prejudiced the AMCs ability to recover the hire charges. 
Im therefore not persuaded Amtrust has acted unfairly by declining Mr Ks claim for the 
reasons it has. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman