DRN-2872417
The complaint
Mrs Ts complaint is about the amount of premium refunded by Fairmead Insurance Limited 
on a landlord insurance policy she cancelled.
Mrs T is being represented in the complaint by her husband Mr T, so Ill refer to him directly 
where relevant.
What happened
In January 2021, Mrs T renewed a landlord insurance policy with Fairmead. The policy was 
arranged through a broker. Mrs T paid £131.76 for the policy.
The policy was cancelled after 18 days of cover as Mrs T no longer required it. Fairmead 
were notified and provided a refund of £53.76 which included deductions of a minimum 
premium charge, and a cancellation fee of £35.
Mrs T was unhappy about the amount of premium refunded as she was expecting to receive 
a higher amount. So she asked Fairmead to review the refund against the terms of the 
policy.
Fairmead reviewed the refund and provided a breakdown of the charges and fees as set out 
in the terms of business document. As a gesture of goodwill, Fairmead agreed to provide a 
pro rata refund of the premium for the 18 days on cover as opposed to the minimum 
premium charge. This increased the total refund to £76. But Fairmead said the remaining 
administration fees and cancellation charges had been applied correctly.
Mrs T didnt agree with Fairmeads explanation and complained. Fairmead provided its final 
response and maintained its position regarding the breakdown of the premium refund. So 
Mrs T referred the complaint to our service  being represented by Mr T.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that Fairmead had calculated the refund fairly and in line with the terms of the 
policy. They found that Fairmead had provided the documents to Mrs Ts broker at the point 
of sale, and as such it was the brokers responsibility to draw Mrs Ts attention to the 
cancellation terms.
Mr T didnt agree. He said there wasnt any evidence within the insurers paperwork which 
showed these fees. And he asked for proof that the fees were shown to Mrs T at the point of 
renewal. He added that he had been provided with all of the insurance documents from the 
broker and couldnt see any of the items the investigator had referred to. So he asked for a 
copy of the relevant documents which had been relied on.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold the complaint for the reasons below. And I will 
arrange for copies of the relevant documents to be provided to Mr and Mrs T, so they can 
understand how I have reached my decision.
To be able to uphold Mrs Ts complaint, I need to decide if Fairmead clearly set out the 
cancellation terms in its policy documentation, as well as any associated charges it applied 
to the refund. Ive also considered Fairmeads responsibilities in providing this information to 
Mrs T upon renewal of the policy. 
I wont be considering any actions of the broker, or whether a failure to pass on and explain 
the cancellation information prejudiced Mrs T, as that would need to be dealt with as a 
separate matter.
Mr T doesnt appear to be disputing the cancellation fee of £35, and in any event I think this 
is clearly set out in the policy document. I also find Fairmeads gesture to remove the 
minimum premium and readjust it to reflect a pro-rata premium reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
The main crux of this dispute appears to be Fairmeads deduction of the administration 
charge. Having considered everything, I think the administration charges are also clearly set 
out in the documents. The policy terms state Please note any administration fees charged 
for policy, set up are non-refundable if cancelled after the 14 days cooling off period. And 
the Terms of Business document sets out various fees and charges including New business 
£35.00Renewals £35.00. So I think the policy terms are clear that administration fees are 
non-refundable after 14 days. And the Terms of Business document clearly shows what 
those charges are.
In response to Mrs Ts query, Fairmead said the administration charge was usually £35 but 
this was reduced to £15 for her policy. The insurance receipt confirms this; it sets out the 
Building premium of £116.76, followed by an administration fee of £15.00  making the 
£131.76 premium total. 
Ive seen evidence that the documents which contain the terms, fees and charges were sent 
to the broker upon completion of the renewal process. So Im satisfied Fairmead did 
everything it needed to by presenting the cancellation information clearly, and ensuring it 
was passed to Mrs Ts broker upon the inception of the policy. So Im not going to require 
Fairmead to do anything further here.
It will be up to Mrs T to decide if she wishes to pursue matters further with the broker.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman