DRN-2756963
The complaint
Mr D complains that BISL Limited (BISL) incorrectly recorded a non-fault claim hed had with 
a previous insurer and that this has caused his motor insurance premiums to increase. 
 
What happened
On 19 June 2017, someone damaged Mr Ds car when it was parked. He successfully 
claimed for malicious damage through his insurer. The claim was recorded as malicious 
damage on CUE - the Claims and Underwriting Exchange. 
In October 2018, Mr D arranged for his car to be insured through a different provider. He 
arranged the insurance using BISL. 
Mr D initially took the policy out online on 24 October 2018 and it came into effect from 6
November 2018. Ive seen a screen shot which shows Mr D declared one incident in June 
2017. 
BISL sent Mr D a further letter on 30 October 2018. This said that theyd noticed a difference 
between the claim declared by Mr D and what showed on CUE. The letter stated that Mr D 
had noted an incident recorded as a fault claim on 1 June 2017. But the letter went on to say 
that CUE showed he wasnt at fault. It confirmed that despite the difference in the claim 
details, Mr Ds premium wouldnt change.
The 30 October 2018 letter also explained what Mr D should do if the information the letter 
contained from CUE was incorrect. As Mr D could see that it was incorrect  there had been 
no incident at all on 1 June 2017, the only incident hed reported had occurred on 19 June 
2017  he followed the instructions and contacted his insurer from the time of the incident. 
Mr D says his previous insurer confirmed that the information on CUE was correct. He also 
submitted a Subject Access Request to get the information CUE held about him. The 
response confirmed the only claim recorded was dated 19 June 2017. Mr D shared all of this 
information with BISL. 
But when Mr D got his renewal quote through BISL for the policy year starting 6 November 
2019, his premium had gone up from £317 to £424. Mr D didnt think any of the risks under 
the policy had changed. So he asked BISL to explain the increase. He felt that his premium 
had increased due to what he thought was a false claim record on 1 June 2017 CUE held for 
him. So he complained to BISL, as he felt that this had caused his motor insurance 
premiums to unfairly increase. 
In their final response letter, BISL didnt uphold his complaint. They said that the previous 
claim details were correctly recorded on CUE. And therefore there was no additional false 
claim recorded that was having an adverse impact on Mr Ds premiums.
Mr D didnt agree. So he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
his complaint. He said he couldnt reasonably say that Mr Ds premiums had been affected 
by the way the previous claim had been recorded. 
Mr D didnt agree. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 22 March 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont intend to uphold the complaint that an incorrect claim was recorded on CUE. Or that 
such a claim caused Mr Ds motor insurance premiums to increase. But I do intend to ask 
BISL to compensate Mr D for his distress and inconvenience, as I think clearer explanations 
from them wouldve saved Mr D a lot of time, effort and worry. Ill explain why.
I understand that this entire complaint hangs on the date that BISL used in the paperwork 
they sent to Mr D. Instead of referencing 19 June 2017 as the date of the only incident 
recorded on CUE, BISL consistently referred to 1 June 2017, even in their final response 
letter. BISL also reported that the information held on CUE was dated 1 June 2017. It wasnt 
 it was 19 June 2017.
BISL have explained that when a claim is added to their systems, the claim date defaults to 
the first day of the month in which the incident occurred. Ive seen a screenshot BISL have 
provided and it shows they only knew the month and the year of the incident. But I consider 
that this complaint couldve been avoided altogether if BISL had been clear from the start 
why theyd referenced 1 June 2017 instead of 19 June 2017. 
Even though BISL hadnt recorded the full date at the start of the process, theyd had 
enough information from Mr D to realise that the only incident recorded on CUE was dated 
19 June 2017. So they shouldve been able to allay Mr Ds concerns about what he thought 
was a false record on CUE.
BISL said that they never accused Mr D of failing to declare an incident.  And I can see that 
thats true. Their letter of 30 October 2018 states While doing this check we identified a 
difference between the claim(s) declared by you and those on the CUE database. The letter 
then went on to show the only difference noted in the claims record was about who had been 
at fault for the incident. But its clear that Mr D felt that BISL had accused him of not 
declaring an incident on 1 June 2017. And that he felt that a false record had been set up on 
CUE on that date. And that he believed that the false incident had led to increased 
premiums. So Mr D felt he had to write many letters to many different organisations to try to 
set the record straight. That mustve been frustrating and time-consuming for him.
I can see that there is no false record on CUE. Both Mr Ds previous insurer, and the CUE 
records have confirmed that. And I can also see the insurer of Mr Ds policy for the policy 
year starting 6 November 2019 has confirmed that the premium for that period hasnt been 
affected by a record of an incident that didnt happen. So Im not persuaded that a false 
record has influenced Mr Ds car insurance premiums, as there is no false record. 
But BISL consistently made the error of not explaining why theyd recorded the incident that 
was recorded on CUE as having taken place on 1 June 2017, not the actual date of 19 June 
2017. They used 1 June in their letters of 24, 29 and 30 October. Even in their final response 
letter, dated 13 November 2019, BISL continue to talk about the accident dated 1st June 
2017. So its not surprising that Mr D became concerned that another incident had been 
incorrectly recorded in his name on CUE.  So I intend to ask BISL to pay £150 in 
compensation Mr D for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused him.Response to my provisional decision
BISL accepted my provisional decision. But they asked for some further clarification on the 
outcome. Ive given that in What Ive decided  and why.
Mr D didnt provide any new information but has asked me to look again at some of the 
original information he provided. 
Mr D says that he hasnt been dealing with BISL over his complaint. But I can confirm that 
BISL are the business who are correctly dealing with his complaint. Mr D has been dealing 
with BISLs agent.  
Mr D still feels that there is a false record on CUE in his name.  And he feels that there is no 
justification for the increase in premium hes suffered. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
I confirm to BISL that I upheld this complaint. I note that while CUE doesnt incorrectly hold a 
non-fault claim for Mr D, the complaint couldve been avoided if BISL had explained things 
more clearly to Mr D. So I held them responsible for the effort Mr D has felt hes had to take 
to resolve this issue.
I confirm to Mr D that Ive seen no evidence of a false record on CUE in his name. I also 
confirm that the premiums Mr D has been charged havent been affected by a record of an 
incident that didnt happen.
 
Putting things right
I require BISL Limited to pay Mr D £150 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
I require BISL Limited to pay Mr D £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they caused him. 
BISL Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mr D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman