DRN-3040178
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a single trip travel insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to Great Lakes also includes its agents.
 
What happened
On 7 January 2020, Mr and Mrs P took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover a 
holiday from 9 May 2020 to 23 May 2020. The policy was provided by Great Lakes. They 
paid for the standard level of cover, with cover provided for a number of declared medical 
conditions for Mr and Mrs P. They also paid an additional premium to include travel 
disruption extension cover to their policy. In total they paid £290.33 in premiums for this 
policy, which included a discount.
Because of the global pandemic, Mr and Mrs P cancelled their trip and on 24 March 2020, 
they contacted Great Lakes to cancel the policy and request a refund of their premium. 
Great Lakes said that as it was more than 14 days since the purchase of the policy, 
Mr and Mrs P were not entitled to a refund of the premium.
However, Great Lakes said it would be willing to offer a pro-rata refund of £96.17. This was 
in the form of a voucher that could be put towards purchasing a new policy. The voucher 
was valid for 36 months. But the offer didnt include any refund of the additional premium for 
the travel disruption extension cover option purchased.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with this offer, so they complained to Great Lakes and brought 
their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 7 January 2020 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata refund of the policy, including the travel disruption 
extension cover option, from the date Mr and Mrs P requested that the policy was cancelled. 
And he also felt that the formula Great Lakes used to calculate the refund (especially in 
relation to the discount offered) wasnt fair. Due to the deteriorating health of Mrs P, which 
meant her future travelling plans were uncertain, he said that he thought it was fairer for 
Great Lakes to provide a cash refund, rather than a voucher. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view, but Mr and Mrs P didnt. They felt that they 
should receive a full refund of the premium. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive outlined 
above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any refund of a 
policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, Mr and Mrs Ps 
cooling-off period ended on 21 January 2020. But the policy wasnt cancelled until 24 March 
2020. So, Im satisfied the cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. 
The policy terms and conditions do give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions  whereas the Covid-19 global pandemic has had a far-reaching impact, affecting 
a large number of Great Lakes policyholders. Im not persuaded that this type of situation is 
one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover.
So, based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs P purchased, 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs P arent entitled to a refund of their policy premiums.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
Whilst I dont think Mr and Mrs P are entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of their contract with Great Lakes, Ive also considered what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint including the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Ive also considered whether I think Great Lakes 
should make a pro-rata refund of their premiums by way of a voucher or a monetary refund. 
Ive thought about what would be fair and reasonable to both parties. 
Mr and Mrs P have said they should receive a full refund of their premiums as they havent 
used the insurance. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Ps contract 
with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 7 January 2020. This 
is because Mr and Mrs P werent just insured for the dates of travel. The premium charged by Great Lakes also covered the risk of Mr and Mrs P having to cancel their holiday for one 
of the listed reasons that the policy covered. And this was from the date they took out the 
cover.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Ps cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear 
any risk under Mr and Mrs Ps insurance policy. And Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in 
relation to the cancelled trip. Great Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the 
holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer 
going ahead, Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made 
while Mr and Mrs P were travelling abroad. So, Im persuaded that Great Lakes should 
provide a pro-rata refund of the premium paid from the date the holiday was cancelled. 
How the refund should be paid
It is important to note that it was Mr and Mrs Ps decision to cancel the insurance policy  
although I understand their reasons for doing so. Mr and Mrs P entered into a contract with 
Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid 
claim occurring under the policy. Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great 
Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date.
Ordinarily, I would be of the opinion that a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations 
attached to that voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the 
circumstances. However, Mr and Mrs P have told us about changes to Mrs Ps health which 
have occurred since the policy was cancelled and, as a result of these changes, they dont 
think they will be able to travel abroad again in the near future, if at all  so they will not need 
travel insurance. Ive thought about how Mr and Mrs Ps change in circumstances has 
impacted on their ability to travel and therefore utilise the voucher for future trips. And based 
on what weve been told about her ongoing health situation, Im persuaded the pro-rata 
refund of premiums in this particular case should be made by way of a cash refund.
The calculation of the refund
Great Lakes has told us it doesnt break down the premium for the basic policy based on the 
cover it provides pre-travel (if the trip has to be cancelled) and post-departure cover. Instead, 
it says the premium charged is split equally across the whole period of cover.
An insurer is entitled to decide how it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account 
factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims 
arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. Based on 
the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating the 
premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the incidence 
of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied that Great 
Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances.
The refund of £96.17 was calculated based on the unused period of the travel insurance 
cover. The premium Mr and Mrs P paid for this policy was for cover from 7 January 2020 to 
the 23 May 2020. The amount which Great Lakes has offered to Mr and Mrs P is equivalent 
to 61 unused days of cover from 24 March 2020 until the original end date of the insurance 
policy. This is reflective of the fact that Great Lakes wouldnt have been covering any further risk under the policy from the date the policy was cancelled. However, this did not include 
any payment of the travel disruption extension cover option. As Great Lakes was not 
covering any risk under this additional cover option following the cancellation of the policy, 
Im persuaded that a pro-rata refund for this additional cover also needs to be included. 
Great Lakes provided to us the formula it uses in order to calculate the refund of the policy. 
However, I agree with our investigator that this doesnt provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome. This is because Mr and Mrs P received a discount on the premium at the time of 
taking out the policy and the calculation doesnt reflect this correctly. Great Lakes should 
calculate the refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length 
(in days) multiplied by days not on risk. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to provide Mr and Mrs P with a pro-rata cash refund of the premium on 
the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic single trip insurance policy from 
the date the holiday was cancelled;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional travel disruption extension 
cover from the date their holiday was cancelled
Great Lakes has already recalculated the value of the pro-rata refund for the policy to 
£128.33. And based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied that this offer is fair and 
reasonable.
 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint in part.
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right as Ive detailed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman