DRN-3770775
The complaint
Ms R, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms R was approved for six loans. Here is a brief loan table. There was a significant gap in 
lending between loans 5 and 6. 
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest 
amountTerm Repayment 
amount
1 22/02/2017 29/09/2017 £200.00 £130.00 33 £10.00
2 29/09/2017 15/06/2018 £200.00 £130.00 33 £10.00
3 15/06/2018 29/01/2019 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00
4 29/01/2019 16/08/2019 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00
5 16/08/2019 29/04/2020 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00
5 month gap in lending
6 23/09/2020 31/03/2021 £300.00 £210.00 34 £15.00
Morses did not uphold Ms Rs complaint in its final response letter (FRL) and has challenged 
our adjudicators view, which was that loans 4 and 5 should be upheld because the overall 
pattern of lending was harmful bearing in mind the type of credit as well as the relevant 
rules, guidance, and good industry practice at the time. Our adjudicators view was that at 
loan four Morses shouldve reasonably questioned whether continuing to offer further loans 
to a customer who appears to be reliant on this form of lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful, because:
 Ms R had taken four loans in 23 months, with no breaks in lending.
 The amounts she was borrowing didnt significantly decrease over this period.
 Ms R was repeatedly coming back for new loans on the day a previous loan was 
repaid.
Morses challenged these findings on the following points which I have summarised:
there was a break in the lending after loan 5
six loans in three years were not unreasonable
the loan repayments were conducted well by Ms R
It had seen no evidence of any other funds being used to repay its own loans which 
was causing Ms R to borrow from Morses again
Ms Rs committed weekly payments remained the same after loan 3 at £15
It carried out an income and expenditure (I&E) analysis and Ms R signed it as true 
and correct
The income of £317.64 a week (loan 4 application) was confirmed to the agent at the 
time and so Morses was confident that was correct. And loan 5 declared income was 
higher at £378.80 a week which it had verified with credit reference agencies (CRAs) 
After deduction of expenditure Ms R had ample disposable income to repay £15 a 
week and these repayments were a low percentage of her uncommitted and 
available income (8.2% and 11.7% for loans 4 and 5 respectively) 
I reviewed the complaint and asked Morses to clarify that Ms R had 6 loans only. It 
responded quickly and I thank Morses for that. 
And I asked Ms R, through her representative, to send to us information about her financial 
situation at the time Morses was lending to her, but we have received nothing from them. 
So, I decided to issue a provisional decision on 22 November 2022 upholding one loan only 
(loan 1). Both parties have been given time to send me evidence in the form of bank 
statements, proof of income documentation, or copies of documents given to Morses or seen 
by Morses agent and dating from the time of the loan applications. It was a matter for the 
parties as to what they send. 
Since my provisional decision was sent, Morses has agreed to the loan 1 uphold. 
Ms R has received my provisional decision, but nothing further has been sent by her and as 
the reply date had been reached (6 December 2022) then I have moved the complaint to its 
final determination. 
My provisional findings dated 22 November 2022 (smaller type) 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, 
short-term and home credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms R could afford to pay back the amounts shed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the 
circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Rs income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Ms R. These factors include:
Ms R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms R. Our adjudicator considered this to be the 
case for Ms R in relation to loans 4 and 5.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms R could sustainably repay the loans  not just whether 
she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms R was able to repay the loans sustainably. But it 
doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and, 
made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make 
them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments 
are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and thought 
about what this means for Ms Rs complaint. I am issuing a provisional decision because I do not 
agree with the outcome for loans 4 and 5, and I think that loans 1 and 2 ought to be upheld utilising 
the information Morses had at the time those two loans were applied for. 
Loan 1 
Morses carried out a credit search for the first loan. This complaint by Ms R highlights a situation 
where the results of those credit search results have largely been ignored. I have reviewed them 
carefully. And the results from February 2017, which is when Ms R first approached Morses, show 
some of the following details: 
10 active SHARE accounts of which one was in default and one opened in the previous five 
months
total value of all accounts (meaning total debt) of £10,345 - £4,848 on loan and instalment 
type loans, £3,725 on revolving credit such as credit cards and budget accounts, and £305 on 
home-credit much like Morses.
the £305 home credit account was a delinquent account from eight months before and the 
records suggest that debt remained outstanding. Another record was that the total payments 
on the active home credit account was £86 a month. 
the new account opened five months before had a value of £895 so not a small sum
the total value of the default accounts (revolving credit and budget accounts) was £2,427 and 
Ms R had a defaulted account relating to a telecoms contract.
total monthly payments on all accounts excluding mortgages  active at that time  was £428 
which would have translated into Ms Rs situation as just under £99 a week. 
Cross-referring the information Morses says it obtained and recorded when Ms R applied, with the 
income and expenditure (I&E) spreadsheet it has sent to us, then I do not think that they match. 
Despite the information it had from the credit search results, Ms Rs expenditure was listed in the I&E 
at just £20 a week for food. That is a particularly low sum and one I would query. But proceeding on 
that £20 figure for food, Ive made some calculations. 
Ms Rs income was recorded as £149 a week and was at a level at which Id consider Ms R was a 
low-earner which likely means that Ms R could be more difficult to make any loan repayments given 
loan amount from a lower level of income. The records for Ms R categorise the benefits income as 
£115 and then theres a category of other at £34 which must be how the figures add up to total 
weekly income of £149. But I do not know what that other income was. 
Reading the FRL from Morses, it goes into detail as to how these loans were applied for and gives an 
overview of the procedure. This  loan 1  was not a faster payment loan to use the Morses 
terminology, and so it seems that the affordability checks were completed with the Morses agent 
present. 
The FRL includes this sentence: There is no set list of criteria a lender must follow, when providing 
credit. The checks must be proportionate to the amount and term of the loan and what is known about 
a customer. 
But Id expect an agent to utilise the information he or she had to hand. Having obtained the credit 
search and having supplied the results to us which were dated the same day as the first loan 
application, then I cant ignore the details on that set of results.I plan to uphold loan 1. As Ms Rs income was not going to be enough to pay for her existing debt 
plus the money needed for this loan plus her normal expenditure. 
Loans 2 to 6
Loan 6 was approved after a five month break. After two and a half years of lending to Ms R, I dont 
consider that the gap would have broken the lending chain, but I do think it was a significant enough 
break for me to consider it as part of my review of loans 2 to 6. 
From loan 2 onwards, I note that Ms Rs income increased gradually and Morses has said that at 
loan 4 its agent had seen income evidence to make it confident that the income figures for loans 4 
and 5 were accurate. And so Morses can send me that evidence but in the meantime, proceeding on 
the basis that these income figures were accurate, then Ive reviewed the I&E. Below is a duplicate of 
the information Morses has provided being the details collected from Ms R at the time:
LOAN INCOME EXPENDITURE DISPOSABLE 
INCOME
1 £149.00 £20.00 £129.00
2 £226.00 £25.00 £201.00
3 £325.00 £85.00 £240.00
4 £317.64 £136.00 £181.64
5 £378.80 £251.40 £127.40
6 £309.75 £168.00 £141.75
As Ms Rs income increased her expenditure did too but still, on the evidence I have now, it seems 
Ms R was able to afford loans 2 to 6. So, while I do not think that the evidence points towards Ms R 
being in an unsustainable position with these loans, still I do not have the evidence I need to review 
Ms Rs full financial position.
By loan 4, I would have expected Morses to have reached the point where it needed to cease just 
relying on the information Ms R had given it. And I say that because by loan 4 it had been lending to 
Ms R for two years without a break. And the credit search it carried out at loan 1 would be considered 
to have been out of date. 
Morses has explained that it only does credit searches for the first loan but that would have been a 
relatively straightforward method to check on Ms Rs situation. 
Id need to be able to assess what it was that Morses may have seen if it had carried out additional 
checks from loan 4 and I am not able to do that as I have nothing from Ms R. Recently, we asked 
Ms R, through her representative, to provide us with any information it was able to send about her 
financial situation for the Morses lending period. But nothing has been sent to us. 
And so, without that I can only rely on the information Morses says Ms R provided to it at the time she 
applied for the loans. And applying those figures it seems that loans 2 to 6 were affordable. 
I plan to uphold loan 1 because of her very low income at the time and the credit search carried out 
showed a significant amount of debt Ms R was servicing at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have explained earlier, the reply date has been reached, nothing has been received 
from Ms R other than an acknowledgement of having received the provisional decision. 
Morses has agreed to the loan 1 uphold. In the circumstances I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional 
decision, all of which are repeated here and form part of this final determination.
For the reasons given I uphold Ms Rs complaint for loan 1. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it had not lent Ms R loan 1, as Im satisfied it ought not to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms R may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms R in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms R loan 1:
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms R towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms R 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms R the total of A plus B.
D) Morses should remove any adverse payment entries on Ms Rs credit file for loan 1. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman