DRN-3762894
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that her debit card was blocked by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). 
She is also unhappy with the service she received when she attempted to unblock the card.
What happened
In May 2022 Barclays blocked Miss Ss bank card. It says it did this due to an out of 
character transaction. Miss S phoned Barclays to remove this block which it subsequently 
did. During this call Miss S was offered compensation for the service she received when 
attempting to remove this block and £30 was credited to her account. Miss S says she was 
promised a call back as she wanted to speak to a manager and she had not agreed to settle 
her complaint for £30. This call back was not received. Miss S contacted Barclays again 
regarding this matter and was paid a further £70.
One of our investigators looked into this mater and they did not think that Barclays needed to 
do anything more. Miss S disagreed and therefore her complaint was passed to me to issue 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Miss Ss bank account give Barclays the provision to block access to debit 
cards if it believes that there is a potential issue in relation to fraud. Its not for me to decide 
how Barclay should operate its fraud prevention process. I can only make a finding on 
whether it applied the process fairly. I cant say for certain why a transaction was flagged as 
suspicious, but it seems to me that the card block was applied as Barclays suspected 
fraudulent activity. In this instance Barclays has explained that there was a transaction that 
was out of character and from what it has explained I do not think that this is unreasonable.
I will now address the service received when Miss S attempted to remove the block from her 
debit card. In this instance both parties are in agreement that the service Miss S received 
was not satisfactory. I accept that to have to make an initial lengthy call, which I understand 
was lengthened by the actions of first staff member she spoke to and then having to make a 
further phone call to chase for a call back wouldve been upsetting and inconvenient for Miss 
S. That said though I think the £100 that Barclays has already paid is in line with what I 
wouldve recommended so I dont think that it needs to do anything more.
Barclays has already paid Miss S this compensation. So, it follows that I dont direct it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman