DRN-3241417
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain Coutts & Company allowed a direct debit to be paid from their 
account without their authority.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ds Coutts current account had a direct debit set up to pay, for their electricity, a 
company Ill refer to as A. In early 2021 A transferred their electricity account to a different 
firm - Ill refer to it as B. Coutts allowed a direct debit payment, from Mr and Mrs Ds account, 
to B. 
Initially Mr and Mrs D werent aware of their electricity account transferring to B. 
Unfortunately an email from B explaining the transfer went to Mr Ds junk mail inbox. Coutts 
hadnt told Mr and Mrs D the direct debit payment would now be taken by B rather than A.
When checking, their March 2021 Coutts account statement, Mr and Mrs D noticed a direct 
debit payment to B. They were concerned by it as they were unaware of B  and felt they 
hadnt authorised the direct debit.  
In May 2021, at Mr and Mrs Ds request, Coutts cancelled the direct debit mandate for B. In 
response to their complaint Coutts said it hadnt done anything wrong by paying the direct 
debit to B. It said under the direct debit system B could use the original mandate, 
Mr and Mrs D had agreed with A, to collect payment. 
Mr and Mrs D werent satisfied with Coutts response so came to this service. They feel its 
allowed B to illegally withdraw funds from their account. They want Coutts to accept it was 
wrong to allow that to happen. They would like safeguards in place to stop it happening 
again.    
Our investigator didnt think Coutts had acted unfairly or unreasonably by paying the direct 
debit. So she didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mr and Mrs D didnt accept that. 
They are concerned that B was able to take money from their account without their 
knowledge or consent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Coutts has explained the direct system allows B to use the original mandate for A to collect 
payment. Ive also seen correspondence from A explaining, as part of its terms with Mr and 
Mrs D, it can transfer its rights in the event of a change of ownership or company restructure. 
Having considered everything, including the details of the direct debit mandate, Coutts 
explanation for allowing the direct debit seems fair and reasonable. 
Having said that, I can understand why Mr and Mrs D were surprised and concerned to see 
a direct debit payment from a company they werent aware of. Its unfortunate they hadnt 
seen the email from B explaining the transfer of energy provider - and presumably the 
payment collection. But Coutts cant be said to be at fault for that. 
Mr and Mrs D have asked for safeguards be put in place to stop this happening again. That 
isnt something this service has the power to do. We consider individual complaints, 
requiring firms to take steps to put things right where a customer has lost out. Its not our role 
to tell firms to make systematic changes to how they operate. Mr and Mrs Ds request might 
be better directed to the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs D were concerned. But I dont feel Coutts acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. So Im not going to require it to pay them any compensation for time spent on 
the matter, provide an apology or do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman