DRN-4481894
The complaint
Ms F has complained that Drydens Limited kept writing to the wrong address, so she was 
not kept up to date with her account.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account which was sold to a new debt owner in 2013. 
The new debt owner asked Drydens to manage the account.
Ms F moved address. According to the debt owners records, they gave Drydens the new 
address, but Drydens continued to write to Ms Fs old address. Drydens also had post get 
returned, but they didnt trace the address or contact Ms F by other means for years.
When Drydens finally contacted Ms F using the correct details, she was shocked to find out 
that theyd stopped taking her payments in 2021, that her account was in trouble, and that 
she was under threat of legal action. Drydens admitted fault, apologised, and said theyd 
prevent this from happening again in future. But they didnt feel they were otherwise at fault. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint, recommending 
that Drydens pay Ms F £200 compensation. Drydens didnt agree, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Drydens say their records dont go far back enough to show whether they received Ms Fs 
updated address, so instead Ive relied on the debt owners records. According to the debt 
owner, they did update Drydens in January 2014, and Drydens failed to act on that update. 
Drydens also failed to act when they subsequently had their post returned. And Drydens 
have since admitted fault and apologised. Im satisfied that Drydens got things wrong here.
Ms F was understandably shocked to find out about the status of her account, and to learn 
that shed been missing key updates for about a decade. And she was understandably upset 
to be facing the prospect of legal action  even if that legal action didnt then go ahead  not 
least when she was in a vulnerable position and had agreed a payment plan based on what 
she could afford, which as far as she was aware shed been paying along with her others.
So Drydens made a significant mistake over a very lengthy period, which caused Ms F some 
acute stress and upset when she found out. Taking into account the impact this had on Ms F 
along with our guidelines on compensation, I agree with our investigator that £200 would be 
fair to put that right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Fs complaint and direct Drydens Limited to pay 
her £200 compensation.
If Ms F accepts the final decision, Drydens Limited must pay her within 28 days of the date 
our service notifies them of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman