DRN-1727211
The complaint
Mr H complains UK Insurance Limited hasnt paid him enough to settle his van insurance 
claim.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr Hs van was stolen. He claimed on his UKI van insurance policy. It 
wasnt recovered so was considered a total loss. The van had outstanding finance. Initially 
UKI didnt settle the claim at market value including VAT. Instead it paid the finance 
company the outstanding balance minus VAT payable on the agreement. 
After Mr H complained UKI accepted that was a mistake. It increased the settlement to what 
it considered to be market value for the van minus any excess. It paid some of the additional 
settlement to the finance provider to clear the agreement. It paid the rest to Mr H. It also paid 
him £200 compensation to recognise its mistake. 
UKI valued the van at about £19,500. Mr H thinks that valuation is too low, but it didnt 
increase it after he complained. He thinks the value should be about £21,000.    
Our investigator thought UKIs offer was fair. She said it couldve done better with the VAT 
issue. But she felt the £200 it had paid as compensation was enough to recognise what had 
gone wrong. Mr H didnt accept that. He asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to make UKI pay Mr H any extra or do anything differently.
For a theft claim Mr Hs policy says UKI will not pay more than the market value of the 
vehicle at the time of the loss. Market value is defined as the cost of replacing the vehicle 
with one of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the 
accident.  
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a car. When looking into these types 
of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has 
made a reasonable offer in line with them. We do also consider information other than trade 
guides, including adverts. But we place most weight on the guides as theyre based on 
nationwide research of likely selling prices, so theyre more reliable than individual adverts. 
And adverts can be misleading as often vehicles dont sell for the advertised price. Sale 
prices are often lower after negotiations take place. 
UKI valued the van at about £19,500. Ive checked three guides. The valuations, based on 
mileage of 35,000, were about £21,400, £19,300 and £19,600. UKIs valuation is within that 
range. I also checked using a lower mileage figure of 25,000 as Ive seen that given as the 
vans actual mileage. The valuations increased  but UKIs valuation was still within the 
range. 
Ive considered Mr Hs point about the settlement being at the bottom end of the range. But 
as Ive said we dont put an exact value on a vehicle. Instead we consider if the insurers 
valuation is in line with whats required by the insurance policy and fair and reasonable.  
UKIs valuation is within the range of the market values Ive seen. So I consider it to be fair 
and reasonable.  
Mr H says UKIs poor handling of the claim meant his business had to stop for ten weeks. 
That seems to be from the date the van was stolen to the date the additional settlement was 
paid. I accept UKI could have done things better  but I cant see how it was responsible for 
Mr H not being able to work for so long. Unfortunately, the nature of claims like these mean 
they usually take a little time to settle.   
UKIs mistake did mean the finance company and Mr H were without a few thousand pounds 
each for about four weeks longer than they should have been. Thats obviously an 
inconvenience. But I dont see how it could reasonably be said to have stopped him from 
working. UKIs paid Mr H £200 compensation. Overall thats a fair amount to recognise what 
went wrong.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require UK Insurance Limited to do anything differently
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman