DRN-3717659
The complaint
Mr F complains that shares in his Halifax Share Dealing Limiteds (HSDL) account were not 
available for trading following a reverse merger causing him to miss an opportunity to trade 
and resulted in a loss of profits. 
What happened
Mr F held a share dealing account with HSDL. They completed a reverse merger of Gores 
Guggenheim (CGPI) with Polestar Automotive Holdings UK PLC (PSNY) on 23 June 2022 
and started trading on the NASDAQ the following day. He says he held 2550 shares which 
should have transferred to PSNY stock but when he checked his account on 24 June 2022, 
his account didnt reflect the changes. He says he called HSDL customer services the same 
day, but they were unable to help him. He complains he was unable to take advantage of the 
$13 USD price as he couldnt trade in the stock. 
He says the stock was purchased at $10 USD and if he was able to trade when he wanted, 
he would have realised profits of $7650 USD. He says when he was able to trade eight days 
later the price then dropped to $8.70 USD so didnt sell them and decided to hold on to them 
long term.
He also mentions that he is paying a service management fee but is getting zero service in 
return. To resolve his complaint, he would like to be paid the profits of $7650 USD, that he 
would have made had he not been prevented from trading on 24 June 2022. 
In response, HSDL confirm that the merger was finalised on 23 June 2022 and NASDAQ 
trading began the following day but they had not yet received their new holding from their 
International Custodian. They say once the holdings have been received and allocated to his 
account, this would be communicated to him. On this basis, they say they had not made any 
errors or breached the terms of the customer agreement, so they rejected his complaint.
Our investigator considered if HSDL had done anything wrong. He said Mr F was trying to 
benefit from the reverse merger and was unable to do so because the shares were not yet 
available but continues to say that he didnt think HSDL were responsible for this. He 
accepted HSDLs explanation and concluded that they had not been unfair or wilfully created 
a scenario where Mr F misses out on trading, so he and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to first outline what my role at this service is. It is to review the complaint 
presented and in deciding what is fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant 
regulation, law, and best industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information 
and evidence that I have been given and whether HSDL have done anything wrong. 
The concerns raised by Mr F are not in relation to the reverse merger itself, but the time 
frame in which his shares were transferred to PSNY. He says the delay in doing this caused 
him to miss out capitalising on the high share price. So, I have looked at how long this did 
take as well as HSDLs terms and conditions in this situation. In order for me to say they 
have done something wrong; I would need to see that HSDL had in some way breached the 
terms of the agreement, were not transparent and fair or that there was an unnecessary 
delay which resulted in a loss to Mr F. 
What isnt disputed is the date of events that took place. The PSNY stock was being traded 
on NASDAQ on 24 June 2022 and this appears to be the basis of Mr F saying his stock 
should have all been transferred to PSNY and available for him to trade. Having looked at 
the terms and conditions of the account, I didnt see that HSDL had made any commitment 
for the stock to be immediately available in this situation. The terms that he referred to was 
clause 7.8 of the customer agreement which says, All income received by us will be paid 
into your account within 10 working days of receipt. I dont think this clause is relevant to 
this particular situation as it refers specifically to income which is received and the tax 
implications of this. 
I note Mr Fs comments in relation to this, and understand why he feels strongly about this, 
particularly as he wasnt able to capitalise on the increase in share price when he wanted to, 
but there was no definitive date given to Mr F for exactly when the PSNY stock would be 
available for trading. As such, there is no way of knowing exactly what price would have 
been available to him. 
HSDL explained that they use an international custodian who deals with the transfer of stock 
to PSNY. They are dependent on the transfer being completed by them and then being 
notified when the stock was available. I considered whether Mr F was unfairly disadvantaged 
by the stock transfer process, so I looked at when the stock became available. He confirmed 
the PSNY stock was available for trading eight days later. I dont consider it to be an 
unreasonable period of time for this to have been executed. These were circumstances 
outside of HSDLs control and not unusual with this type of merger.
So, whilst I appreciate it may seem unfair to him, I havent seen anything that would suggest 
HSDL breached the terms of the customer agreement or that they caused any unnecessary 
delay in the stock being transferred or prevented him from trading. From what Ive seen, I am 
not persuaded that HSDL caused Mr F to miss out on capitalising on the increase in share 
price or suffer a loss, as such I will not be upholding this complaint. 
With regards to Mr Fs concerns around the management fee he is paying and not receiving 
any service in return, unfortunately there is insufficient information as to what specifically he 
is concerned about. I dont consider that Mr F has said anything which calls into question the 
level of service he has received on his account. From everything I have seen, there is no 
evidence of customer service issues raised now or previously.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman