DRN-1552171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K took out a packaged bank account with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in 2009 
and they say it was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out an Advantage Account (AA) in October 2009. 
The AA benefits included worldwide family travel insurance, roadside assistance, fee free 
cash withdrawals abroad; better rates for overdrafts, loans and savings accounts; and a 
range of other offers. The AA cost £12.95 a month.
Mr and Mrs K say that they were not told that a fee free account was available, and the AA 
was unsuitable for them.
Our adjudicator didnt think that HSBC mis-sold the account. Mr and Mrs K disagree so the 
case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Firstly, I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs K knew they had a choice whether to take out 
the AA, and whether they chose to do so. I think they did, and Ill explain why.
HSBC has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs K had made use of financial facilities in the 
years before this sale. And banking is a competitive market and free bank accounts are 
widely advertised. So, at the time of the sale, I think its more likely than not that they were 
aware that there was a range of fee free accounts available from both HSBC and other 
banks and financial institutions. 
So, while I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ks honest recollections, in my view they knew they had a 
choice whether to pay a fee for an account or not and they chose to take the AA out. 
HSBC says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
AA to Mr and Mrs K personally or advise them to take it out. Mr and Mrs K say that HSBC did 
advise them to take it out. I will assume that this was an advised sale as it to Mr and Mrs Ks 
advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision.
This means HSBC had to ensure that the AA was suitable for Mr and Mrs K, and it had to 
provide Mr and Mrs K with good enough information about the AA so they could make an 
informed decision about whether to have it or not.
I think the AA was suitable for Mr and Mrs K. 
I say this because they say they travelled up to three times a year in Europe and the UK. And 
HSBC has provided evidence that they travelled into Europe soon after the sale.
HSBC also says that Mr and Mrs K called for the car breakdown assistance about a year later. 
And the car breakdown service covered them whether they were the driver or owner of a car 
or not. 
Mr and Mrs K also benefitted from preferential rates on their overdraft and a savings account 
and would have benefited on two loans if theyd not repaid them early.
Mr and Mrs K appear to have been aware of the main benefits of the AA. And I can see 
nothing in Mr and Mrs Ks personal circumstances that would have stopped them using the 
AAs benefits - it was for them to decide what they wanted to use.
So, in my view Mr and Mrs K knew they had a choice about the AA, and they chose to take it 
out. And I dont think there is anything HSBC didnt tell them that would have changed their 
minds and put them off taking out the AA.
My final decision
So, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman