DRN-2398960
The complaint
Ms W complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) did not process transactions 
correctly and that she suffered a financial loss. Ms W also complains that it took Halifax an 
excessive amount of time to resolve the issue to the detriment of her health.
What happened
Ms W had an execution only share dealing account with Halifax. On 7 April 2020 she 
contacted Halifax to sell 100,000 shares in a company that I will call Company A. Ms W then 
wished to re-purchase them within her ISA. This process is commonly referred to as a Bed 
and ISA transaction.
Ms W was advised that the 100,000 shares In Company A would be purchased and placed 
in her ISA, but Halifax only purchased 95,565 shares. Ms W called Halifax that day to ask 
why a lower number of shares had been purchased. Halifax called back later that day and 
said that an additional 3514 shares would be purchased to correct the position. As Ms W 
wanted 100,000 shares purchased, she raised a complaint.
Halifax purchased an additional 3760 shares on 28 April to correct the position. On 13 May, 
Ms W called Halifax and said that she was unhappy that the position had been corrected 
without her knowledge and that she had not received a call back from a manager. 
Halifax called Ms W on 1 June to discuss the complaint and they agreed to purchase an 
additional 675 shares at no cost to Ms W to bring the total amount of shares purchased to 
100,000 shares. Halifax offered Ms W £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience and sent their final complaint response on 5 June.
Unhappy with the way that Halifax dealt with her complaint, Ms W referred her complaint to 
the service and one of our investigators looked at her complaint. The investigator thought 
that Halifax could have handled the complaint better and upheld Ms Ws complaint. The 
investigator asked Halifax to increase the compensation amount to £400 which was an 
amount that Ms W was happy with.
Unhappy with the investigators compensation amount, Halifax have asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view and I am going to uphold Ms Ws complaint. I also think 
that the award of £400 for the trouble and upset caused in fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I have reviewed the case documentation and I think that the details behind the complaint are 
understood and accepted by both parties so its not my intention to go into the detail of what 
went wrong.
The role of the service is to investigate complaints to see if a business has done anything 
wrong and if they have, to put the consumer back into the position they should have been in 
had the error not occurred.
Ive looked at the details of this complaint and the time it took Halifax to rectify the error. I 
note that Ms W had to make repeated calls to Halifax who did not return calls when they said 
they would. Ms W was also initially provided with incorrect information which created an 
expectation of how the issue would be corrected and I think this contributed to the sense of 
frustration that she felt.
I note that Halifax corrected the error to put Ms W back into the position she should have 
been in, but I dont think that they kept Ms W up to date with what they were doing. This 
resulted in Ms W thinking that nothing had been done and the complaint was unresolved.
Ive listened to the calls that Ms W has made to the service and it is clear that she has been 
frustrated by having to deal with the complaint and she says that her health has suffered as 
a result. 
The investigator has recommended that Halifax pay £400 compensation for the trouble and 
upset that they have caused Ms W. In their submission to the service, Halifax have said that 
they do not believe that this amount is consistent with payments made of a similar nature.
The service will look at all complaints impartially and assess each on their own merits. 
Having reviewed the details of the complaint and the impact that this has had on Ms W, I 
think that the offer of compensation suggested by the investigator is fair and reasonable and 
in line with awards where a consumer had to repeatedly call a business to get things sorted.
Ms W first raised the issue on 7 April and it took until 5 June for the error to be resolved and 
the position corrected. I think that Halifax could have handled this better and kept Ms W 
informed of what they were doing and why. The length of time that it took Halifax to correct 
the error and the lack of information has contributed to the stress and worry that Ms W has 
suffered.
Putting things right
I require Halifax Share Dealing Limited to pay Ms W £400 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman