DRN-3646556
The complaint
Mrs C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) hasnt offered enough 
compensation for the damage she says it caused to her property after carrying out repairs to 
her boiler under her home emergency cover. 
What happened
On 9 January 2020, an engineer from British Gas carried out work on Mrs Cs boiler, situated 
within a built-in cupboard in Mrs Cs sons bedroom. Mrs C said the boiler blew-up that night 
and water from it leaked into the cupboard, onto the cupboards contents and the bedroom 
carpet. Water also came through the ceiling to the walls of the room below.
British Gas repaired the boiler the next day. Mrs C says that the engineer saw her sons 
damaged clothes  which had been in the cupboard when the boiler leaked - in the bath. Mrs 
C said the clothes were covered in greasy, black sludge. Mrs C said the engineer told her a 
manager would be in touch about the damage.
On 10 February 2020, Mr C called British Gas because he and Mrs C hadnt received a call 
or a visit to discuss the damage.  Nobody called Mr C back. By this time Mr and Mrs C say 
the clothes and the carpet had begun to smell. So Mr and Mrs C say they had no choice but 
to dispose of the clothes and cut away the damp section of the carpet so their son could 
move back into his bedroom.
A manager from British Gas visited on 17 March 2020. On 9 April 2020, British Gas 
contacted Mrs C to say it would proceed with her damage claim once Covid-19 restrictions 
had lifted.  
 
On 25 July 2020, Mr C contacted British Gas because the matter still hadnt been resolved. 
He said that the manager visiting his property in March 2020 had agreed that Mr and Mrs C 
needed to dispose of the affected part of the carpet. Mr C said as well that the redecoration 
of the downstairs room undertaken by British Gas earlier that month, was in no way 
acceptable as water marks could still be seen. British Gas say it then continued to consider 
Mrs Cs claim.
British Gas offered Mrs C £150 for the carpet, which is what it said it wouldve cost to clean 
it. It offered nothing for the damaged clothes. Mrs C contacted British Gas on 29 August 
2020 and again towards the end of September 2020 and said she was unhappy with the 
offer and didnt understand how the valuation of her damaged property had been decided. 
She felt the offer should include an amount for the damaged clothes. 
On 25 November 2020, Mrs C sent British Gas a list of the damaged clothes and the 
replacement costs.  She said her husband had lost earnings because hed needed to be at 
home to accommodate visits from British Gas both before and after the boiler exploded. She 
said shed spent £448 on a replacement carpet. And had spent hours on calls, emails and 
online chats asking British Gas to resolve the matter. She said she wanted her losses 
reimbursed and compensation for her time, her husbands lost earnings and for the poor 
repairs to her downstairs room. 
 
On 2 December 2020, British Gas issued its final response letter to Mrs Cs complaint. It said 
it would pay Mrs C £300 towards her £448 carpet costs which would be in addition to the 
£150 offer it has already made.  It said corona virus had caused all work to be placed on 
hold which caused delays and that it wouldnt offer anything for Mrs Cs damaged clothes. It 
said British Gas contractor had guaranteed the work to her downstairs room for 12 months 
so she was free to contact him if she was unhappy with the redecoration. And it would pay 
Mrs C £30 for the paint shed given its contractor to use. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. She was unhappy with British Gas offer and that itd 
taken British Gas four months to respond to her email about the inadequate repairs. She 
said water was still trapped behind the plaster in her downstairs room and the carpet couldnt 
have been cleaned by the time the manager attended because itd been left so long.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Cs complaint. 
British Gas responded that it wanted to know why Mrs C didnt try to clean the clothes. It 
wanted proof that the clothes were beyond economic repair and proof of their purchase. But 
it agreed to pay Mrs C £200 for her distress and inconvenience and said it would contact Mrs 
C about a further inspection.
Mrs C told us she didnt try to clean the clothes because the engineer had seen them and 
had said to leave them because a manager would call about them. But no-one had got in 
touch, so she discarded them because theyd gone mouldy.
 
British Gas disagreed it should pay for the clothes when no attempt had been made to clean 
them. Instead it agreed to pay Mrs C an additional £100 to reflect the cost of getting them 
cleaned professionally.
 
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows:
 
The terms of Mrs Cs home emergency cover say, We are not responsible for any loss of or 
damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance 
or system breaking or failing unless we caused it. British Gas doesnt dispute that the 
actions of its engineer caused the boiler to leak on 9 January 2020. Or that Mrs Cs bedroom 
carpet, her sons clothes and the decoration of a downstairs room were damaged by the 
water. So its fair and reasonable that British Gas has taken steps towards putting right the 
damage.
Mrs C told us shes happy for British Gas to assess the repairs it carried out and said the 
contractor had been in touch about coming back. So I think British Gas offer here to assess 
its repairs is fair and reasonable. But if Mrs C disagrees with the outcome of the 
assessment, she is free to raise any concerns with British Gas and subsequently this service 
if necessary.
 It remains then for me to decide whether the £300 British Gas has offered to Mrs C for her 
carpet and the £100 offered for the damaged clothes is fair and reasonable.
 
Carpet and clothes
Ive reviewed the video Mrs C provided of the water leaking from her boiler. The video shows 
water collecting in a bowl on the floor inside the cupboard. The water in the bowl appears 
dirty. The boiler was housed in a cupboard in a bedroom, so its reasonable to think clothes 
would be stored in it as well. And theyd most likely have come into contact with the dirty 
water.
 
From the video, its also reasonable to think that dirty water wouldve come into contact with 
the area of the carpet Mrs C cut away, as it is right next to where the bowl collecting the 
water was placed. 
British Gas told us that the assessment visit didnt happen until mid-March 2020 because of 
its workload during the winter months and because of a delay in allocating Mrs Cs damage 
claim. It also told us that when a property damage claim is made we would ensure that a 
site visit takes place as quickly as possible but that this didnt happen in this case. So it 
wasnt Mrs Cs fault that the assessment didnt take place until more than two months after 
the boiler leaked. 
I dont think its unreasonable that Mrs C left the carpet and clothes in their damaged state 
whilst she was waiting for British Gas to inspect them. And I dont think its unreasonable to 
say that the clothes and carpet would have developed mould and smells during this time.
British Gas said Mrs C couldve got the clothes and the carpet cleaned. But Mrs C is not an 
expert in dealing with clothes and carpets damaged by water from a boiler and I cant see 
that British Gas ever told Mrs C she should get the carpet and clothes cleaned because of 
the time the assessment was taking to arrange.
 
So I cant say it was unreasonable that Mrs C reached the point where she felt she needed 
to take matters into her own hands and dispose of the damaged carpet and clothes and that 
this was before the assessment took place. So I think its fair and reasonable then that 
British Gas pay Mrs C the cost of replacing the damaged clothes and the carpet, because I 
dont think Mrs C would have acted as she did had the assessment taken place sooner.
Mrs C said she needed to replace the carpets underlay because the greasy slime from the 
boiler had gone under the carpet to the underlay and floorboards. From a photo taken after 
the section of the carpet had been removed, I can see the underlay is still in place and 
shows only some water staining. So I dont think the underlay was damaged enough to need 
to be replaced. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require British Gas to pay for the replacement 
underlay.
 
Mrs C paid £448 to replace the carpet, which she has provided an invoice for dated 23 
November 2020. British Gas should reimburse Mrs C for this amount, plus interest from the 
date of her invoice.
  
I asked Mrs C if she could provide proof of purchase for the replacement clothes. Mrs C 
provided a credit card statement showing a payment of £163 made to her sons school 
uniform provider. She also sent us a list of the clothes she said shed replaced. But this list 
differed somewhat from the list she provided to British Gas. And the items she told us shed 
needed to replace came to more than the £163 shown on the statement. Also, the statement 
was dated July 2021, so 18 months after the school uniform had been damaged. I think it 
likely Mrs Cs sons uniform wouldve needed to have been replaced sooner than this. So I cant say on balance that Mrs Cs credit card statement of July 2021 evidences what she 
paid to replace the damaged clothes. 
But despite this, its still reasonable to think that clothes wouldve been stored in the 
cupboard and wouldve come into contact with the water from the boiler. But because theres 
no evidence of replacement costs, Im minded instead to require British Gas to pay Mrs C 
the cost of replacing the clothes shes referred to consistently - so those appearing both on 
Mrs Cs list to British Gas and the list she provided to us in May 2022. Im also minded to 
include an amount for the backpack Mrs C says was damaged because it can be seen in the 
video footage of the leak. So I intend to require that British Gas pay Mrs C £203.47. It should 
also pay interest from the 25 July 2021, which is the date Mrs C made the £163 payment to 
her sons school uniform provider because this is the earliest evidence Ive seen of Mrs C 
making a payment to the uniform provider. 
Loss of earnings
It wouldnt be fair for me to consider here whether Mrs C should be compensated for her 
husbands lost earnings during British Gas attempts to fix her boiler in the days running up 
to the leak on 9 January 2020. This is because I cant see that Mrs C has complained to 
British Gas about the service she received from British Gas during that time.  Mrs C is free to 
raise this with British Gas, and afterwards with this service if necessary.
Mrs C also said that British Gas should compensate her for her husbands lost earnings 
during the repairs and the visits after the boiler exploded. She provided an invoice from her 
husbands company showing his hourly rate and told us when hed been unable to work.  
But when this service considers claims for loss of earnings, we think its reasonable for 
consumers to provide evidence of work theyve had to cancel, for example through 
communications with customers cancelling planned work or diary notes showing work that 
couldnt go ahead. Mrs C said she doubted whether shed be able to provide this to us and 
we didnt receive any such evidence within the timeframe wed asked Mrs C to provide it. 
So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to require British Gas to pay Mrs C for Mr Cs lost 
earnings after the boiler exploded. But Ive considered the inconvenience caused to Mr and 
Mrs C by needing to be at home to accommodate the repairs and visits after the boiler 
leaked when making my provisional decision about compensation.
  
Distress and inconvenience
Im minded to award Mrs C more than the £200 compensation set out in our investigators 
view. I shall explain why.
Usually there is a degree of inconvenience involved when a consumer makes a claim on a 
policy. But Mrs C wasnt making a claim on a policy. Shes seeking recompense for damage 
caused by British Gas whilst dealing with a claim on her home emergency policy.
 
I think Mrs Cs boiler leaking on the night of the 9 January 2020, wouldve been especially 
distressing and inconvenient for Mrs C because an engineer had only attended to the boiler 
earlier that day. So I think Mrs C should be compensated for her boiler leaking after British 
Gas had been to her property earlier that day to fix it. 
 
It was unreasonable for Mrs C to have waited over two months for British Gas to assess the 
damage. Id have expected British Gas to have acted more swiftly here than it did given that 
the damage to Mrs Cs property happened after a British Gas engineer had been working on 
the boiler. British Gas said the delay here was caused by its workload during the winter months and because of delays in allocating the damage claim. Neither of these were Mrs Cs 
fault. So I think Mrs C should be compensated for this delay.
British Gas told Mrs C that the progression of her damage claim was on hold because of 
Covid-19 restrictions. But I think that if British Gas had carried out the mid-March 2020 visit 
sooner and within a more reasonable timeframe, Covid-19 restrictions would have had a 
much reduced impact on the progress of Mrs Cs claim. So I think Mrs C should be awarded 
compensation for the additional delays here.
British Gas told our investigator that the delay between July 2020 and December 2020 was 
caused by it not being able to agree on a settlement. But I think an agreement couldve been 
reached much more quickly if British Gas had carried out its assessment of the damage 
sooner than it did. It wouldve been able to see the property that had been damaged before it 
was disposed of. And so I think it wouldve been less likely to dispute what had been 
damaged. I think, as well, British Gas wouldnt have needed to put Mrs C to the 
inconvenience of asking her to prove she owned the clothes she said were damaged, 
because it wouldve seen them damaged in her home. So I think its fair and reasonable that 
Mrs C should be compensated for this part of the delay and for the inconvenience of being 
asked to provide proof of purchase for the clothes. 
During British Gas handling of the claim, both Mrs C and Mr C had to call and email British 
Gas a number of times to find out about their claims progression, which theyd not have 
needed to do had British Gas dealt with the claim within a more reasonable timeframe. 
British Gas also admitted it didnt call Mr C back after Mr C requested a progress update on 
10 February 2020. And Mr C had to spent time at home to facilitate repairs and visits. I think 
Mrs C should be compensated for these things as well as for other poor service she received 
from British Gas regarding her damage claim.
Mrs C said that the British Gas engineer who fixed the leak to their boiler on 10 January 
2020 told them that British Gas insurance would cover all the damage their property had 
suffered. Mr C also told British Gas on 25 July 2020 that the manager who visited in March 
2020, agreed the damaged section of carpet had to be cut away. But there is no record or 
evidence of either conversation. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to award 
compensation here for what Mrs C says she and Mr C were told by British Gas. 
So Im minded to award Mrs C £500 for her trouble and upset, rather than the £200 awarded 
by our investigator. In arriving at this amount, Ive taken into account the events outlined 
above and also borne in mind that these events only came about because Mrs Cs boiler 
leaked after a British Gas engineer had carried out work on it. So I feel £500 better reflects 
the distress and inconvenience Mrs C has suffered.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C initially accepted the findings of my provisional decision and provided no further 
information or comments. 
British Gas said it didnt think it should have to pay for the replacement clothes or interest on 
the cost of the replacement carpet. It said Mrs C destroyed the carpet and clothes before it 
could inspect them, Mrs C doesnt have evidence of purchase of the replacement clothes 
and didnt allow British Gas to try to clean the clothes or carpet. It said that requiring it to 
carry out an assessment of the repairs to the water damage wasnt within this services 
jurisdiction.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
The water damage to Mrs Cs downstairs decorations was caused by the actions of an 
engineer carrying out work as part of a claim Mrs Cs made on her home emergency cover. 
And the contractor that carried out the repairs was British Gas agent. So the quality of the 
repairs to the damage caused is within this services jurisdiction because the repairs trace 
back to Mrs Cs home emergency claim. 
I explained in my provisional decision why it wasnt unreasonable for Mrs C to have disposed 
of the damaged clothes when she did, and without her or anyone else cleaning them. I also 
explained why its reasonable for British Gas to pay £203.47 towards Mrs Cs clothing costs, 
despite her having no direct evidence of her replacement costs. 
 
British Gas said it shouldnt have to pay interest on the replacement costs of the new 
clothes. It said its final response pointed out that Mrs C had no proof of purchase of the 
clothes and there was no delay in it providing this information to Mrs C. But because I think 
its fair and reasonable that British Gas should pay towards the damaged clothes and 
because British Gas didnt offer anything towards them sooner than it did, its also 
reasonable that it should pay interest on its contribution.
So because British Gas hasnt presented any new information or arguments in relation to 
these points, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings that it should pay 
towards the replacement clothes and pay interest on this amount.  
Ive reconsidered my provisional finding on the payment of interest on the cost of the 
replacement carpet. British Gas sent Mrs C a cheque for £330 dated 4 December 2020, of 
which £300 was for the new carpet. The cheque was sent to Mrs C a few days after the date 
of her invoice for the replacement of her carpet. And because Mrs C paid for the carpet only 
a few days before British Gas sent her a cheque towards it, I think instead that British Gas 
should pay interest only on the £148 portion of the invoice not covered by its cheque. British 
Gas and Mrs C have already provided comment on this revised finding. 
 
Mrs C said shed made it clear at the time that she didnt accept the cheque and so didnt 
cash it. But British Gas sent Mrs C a cheque that included £300 for the cost of her carpet, 
even if she didnt cash it. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
British Gas to pay interest on the whole of Mrs Cs invoice. 
British Gas didnt agree it should pay interest on the £148 because Mrs C didnt return the 
paperwork it had sent her and so it couldnt release the payment to her. But the paperwork 
appears to relate to the £150 British Gas offered Mrs C which she complained about in 
August 2020, when Im requiring British Gas to pay interest from 23 November 2020, which 
is later than this.
 
British Gas FRL explained that its cheque, along with the £150 offer it had already made, 
would cover the full £448 Mrs C had paid for her new carpet.  But British Gas FRL didnt 
appear to take into account that its earlier offer of £150 hadnt yet been paid to Mrs C, which 
is something its reasonable to expect British Gas to have known about. And I think that had 
it realised the £150 hadnt yet been paid, its reasonable to think it would have issued Mrs C 
a cheque that would cover the full cost of her carpet, which I think was the intention it outlined in its FRL.  So Mrs C would have received reimbursement for the full cost of her 
replacement carpet sooner. But because Mrs C only received reimbursement for £300 of the 
cost of her carpet,  I think its fair and reasonable that British Gas pay interest on the 
remaining portion  or £148 - of Mrs Cs invoice that wasnt covered by the cheque it sent to 
Mrs C with its FRL. 
British Gas said in its response that it felt itd handled Mrs Cs damage claim to the best of its 
ability, given the pandemic. I explained in my provisional decision why  despite the 
pandemic - I felt Mrs C should be awarded compensation for the delays in handling her 
claim.  British Gas hasnt provided any new information or evidence about this, so Im not 
persuaded to depart from my provisional finding that Mrs C should be awarded 
compensation for the delays. 
British Gas said that £500 compensation was excessive because it had offered Mrs C a 
contribution to her costs despite being denied the opportunity to carry out an inspection or a 
professional clean. But the £500 compensation I was minded to award took into account the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C by her boiler leaking after it was attended to by 
a British Gas engineer. So Mrs C having to deal with a leaking boiler, her son being unable 
to use his room, Mrs C having to store damp and smelly clothes and organise a replacement 
for her damaged carpet. The compensation amount also takes into account the delays Mrs C 
had suffered, and the times shed had to contact British Gas about the progression of her 
claim. So Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision about the amount of 
compensation I think Mrs C should receive. 
For the reasons outlined above, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings but 
for one exception - which is that British Gas should pay interest on £148 of Mrs Cs carpet 
replacement costs from the date of her invoice rather than on the full cost set out in her 
invoice. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I instruct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs C: 
£203.47 for the clothes damaged plus 8% simple interest from 25 July 2021; 
£448 for the replacement carpet plus 8% simple interest from the 23 November 2020 
on £148 of this amount; and 
£500 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused Mrs C in handling her claim.
British Gas Insurance Limited should also carry out the assessment it has offered to Mrs C 
to check the quality of the repairs it undertook to remedy the water damage caused to Mrs 
Cs downstairs room.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman