DRN-3994037
The complaint
Ms S complains that after reporting a possible fraudulent transaction, Santander UK Plc 
blocked her account then sent her new debit cards several times which didnt work.
What happened
On 16 November 2022 Ms S called Santander to advise that she had seen a payment being 
made from her account that she didnt recognise. She said that shed noticed similar 
payments from her account going back to September 2022. Santander investigated the 
transactions but put a block on the account while it did this. It then refunded to Ms S the 
payments made.
Santander sent Ms S a new debit card on 16 November 2022. However Ms S said she didnt 
receive it. So Santander issued another card, but when she went to an ATM to activate it, 
this was taken by the machine. She received a third card in early December 2022 but she 
said it didnt work and she then mislaid it. She received a fourth card at the end of 
December. She says that card keeps showing that it has a fault on it. However that card 
appears to be working satisfactorily.
Ms S was upset because a cheque she wrote to a charity was blocked. She also couldnt 
use her card for the month of December and had to incur credit card charges. She further 
objected to Santander going through her accounts in detail.
Santander explained that it blocked her account because Ms S had advised it of several 
possible fraudulent transactions. It has refunded to her the unauthorised payments, and the 
£20 credit card charges she incurred. It recognised that she was inconvenienced by the 
block put on her account and by having to receive multiple new debit cards. It paid her £25 
for the inconvenience caused.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that Santander had 
acted appropriately and had done enough to put things right.
Mis S didnt agree and also said she had a number of other issues she felt should be 
investigated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
other issues. 
Ms S has raised with us other issues namely:
1) Santander wouldnt let her switch accounts.
2) She needed to pay for a new boiler but was unable to take out a personal loan to pay for 
it.
3) She wasnt able to fix her mortgage rate which was then on a variable rate.
4) Her card was used by someone in a coffee shop.
None of those issues have been put to Santander so Im unable to comment on them. Ms S 
should take them up with Santander and/or her mortgage/loan providers.
blocking the account
When a customer reports an apparently fraudulent transaction, for the customers protection 
Santander had a legal and regulatory responsibility to protect the customers account. This 
unfortunately meant blocking the account while Santander investigated the reported 
fraudulent transactions. This was why the cheque Ms S wrote was blocked. Santander 
refunded the payments made and removed the block within a week. I think it acted 
reasonably in this respect.
multiple debit cards issued
I havent been advised why the first card went missing or why the ATM retained the second 
card. It appears that Ms S mislaid the third card so Santander wouldnt have been able to 
check if it was faulty. The fourth card was sent to her at the end of December 2022 and she 
seems to be able to use it. Santander doesnt know what Ms S means when she says it is 
showing it has a fault. 
I recognise that this was frustrating to Ms S. I note that payments were able to go from her 
account during this period. I dont have enough evidence to say whether Santander was at 
fault in this respect, but I note that in any event it paid Ms S £25 and refunded her credit card 
charges. I think that was fair and reasonable.
looking at financial records
Ms S complains that her records were gone into in great detail, and she objects to this. As 
she had reported fraudulent transactions on her account Santander needed to investigate 
the accounts before it could refund the payments made. I havent seen any evidence that 
Santander did this any more than it reasonably needed to.
I think that overall Ms S was unfortunate in that she had to be issued with several debit 
cards, but I think that Santander acted appropriately to deal with the situation. 
My final decision
 I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman