DRN-2352886
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) wont compensate him for the consequential 
losses that hes incurred due to issues with a boiler that he paid for using a fixed sum loan 
agreement.
What happened
Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano Bank that he electronically signed 
in April 2019 to pay for a replacement boiler. The boiler that was installed was a combi-
boiler that Mr S says was recommended by the supplier. He says that his existing boiler 
was a conventional boiler and that he got other quotes for replacing it with another 
conventional boiler.
He says that the higher pressure from the combi-boiler caused his existing pipes to leak in 
November 2019 which damaged a floor. He says that he had to pay more than £3,000 to re-
pipe his whole house and to replace the damaged floor. He complained to Ikano Bank about 
the mis-selling of the product and that the goods werent fit for purpose. 
It said that the installation had been inspected by the boiler manufacturer and the supplier 
and it was found that the existing pipework, some of which was plastic, hadnt been installed 
correctly and wasnt fit for purpose. It also said that it had found no evidence to show that 
Mr S was coerced or mis-led into purchasing a combi-boiler. Mr S wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He wasnt 
persuaded that there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier so 
he couldnt say that Ikano Bank was liable for the costs that Mr S had incurred as a 
consequence of the new boiler being installed.
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded to 
our investigators recommendation in detail and has explained why he considers that Ikano 
Bank is liable for the consequential losses that hes incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S used credit in the form of a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano Bank to pay 
for the boiler;
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint about Ikano Bank, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the boiler 
and that Ikano Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ss claim under section 75 
as only a court would be able to do that;
the combi-boiler that was supplied to Mr S is working correctly and his heating 
system operated for more than five months after the boiler was installed before the 
leak occurred;
Ikano Bank says that the existing pipework, which included some plastic pipes, 
hadnt been installed correctly and wasnt fit for purpose and that the supplier wasnt 
responsible for checking Mr Ss existing pipework;
the leak damaged Mr Ss floor and hes provided a quote for replacing his pipework, 
which says that its: never good practice to put new pressurised boilers onto 
pipework that is buried in floors, but it also says that Mr Ss pipework:  would 
never have been adequate for a new boiler to work properly;
Mr S received quotes for a conventional boiler but it was his choice to buy a combi-
boiler  and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the 
combi-boiler was mis-sold to him;
I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr S would have had issues with his 
existing pipework and would have needed to replace it whether hed chosen a 
conventional boiler or a combi-boiler;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the boiler wasnt fit for 
purpose or that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
I sympathise with Mr S for the issues that hes experienced with the leak and the 
costs that hes incurred in replacing his pipework and floor - but I consider that Ikano 
Banks response to his complaint has been fair and reasonable in the circumstances; 
and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Ikano Bank to reimburse 
Mr S for the consequential losses that hes claimed, to pay him any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman