DRN-3567324
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt reimbursed him after he 
transferred money to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr B has been the victim of a scam. He was tricked into 
sending £1,780 to an investment that appeared to be offered by a legitimate company. 
However, unbeknown to Mr B, he was actually dealing with scammers. Mr B made the 
following payments:
£50.00 on 11 May 2021 via debit card payment
2 x £110.00 0n 24 May 2021 via debit card payments
£10 on 30 June 2021 via faster payment (online banking)
£1,500 on 30 June 2021 via faster payment (online banking)
Mr B made all of the above transfers without any interaction with Halifax staff. However, he 
now feels that Halifax shouldve identified the payments he was making as suspicious.  He 
says Halifax owed him a duty of care and shouldve contacted him to discuss the payments 
before it agreed to process them on his behalf. Mr B believes that had Halifax done so, the 
scam wouldve come to light, and he wouldnt have proceeded to make the transfers.
Halifax didnt agree that it could have done anything more than it already had to protect Mr 
B and so Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He acknowledged that the £1,500 payment 
that left Mr Bs account was slightly higher than any recent payments hed made. But, 
overall, he didnt think any of the transactions were so unusual and out of character when 
compared with Mr Bs usual account activity that Halifax shouldve questioned Mr B about 
the payments before they allowed them to leave his account. He also recognised that it 
wouldnt have been possible to recover the payments as they had been sent to two of Mr 
Bs cryptocurrency accounts before being moved on to the scammers. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He re-iterated that Halifax owed him a 
duty of care as a customer regardless of the value of the transactions.  
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr B. I have significant sympathy 
for the situation he has found himself in. But having thought very carefully about what 
hes told us happened at the time and Halifaxs actions, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to hold Halifax liable for his loss.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr B, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
Halifax should reimburse him with the money he has unfortunately lost to the scammers. 
Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr B when he transferred £1,780 to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr B authorised the payments himself. For the card payments, he entered his debit card 
information and for the transfers, he logged into his internet banking and used his security 
details in order to request the payments be made to the accounts he specified. And whilst 
we now know that the destination accounts were not legitimate, the funds were regardless 
paid to the account details Mr B had entered and therefore the transactions were requested 
and authorised by him. Because of this, Halifax had an obligation to follow his instructions. 
But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the payments/transfers - as Ive explained above. I consider that 
as a matter of good practice Halifax shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions.
So, Ive then thought about whether the payments/transfers Mr B made could be 
considered out of character and unusual when compared with his usual account activity. 
Ive reviewed Mr Bs account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and 
Im not persuaded the first four payments were. Mr B had made numerous similar payments in the months leading up to the scam. And so, it wouldnt now be reasonable for me to say 
that transactions amounting ranging from £10 to £110 were unusual for his account. Whilst I 
acknowledge that the final payment was a little higher than previous transactions, Im not 
persuaded that it was so high in value or so out of character that it warranted further checks 
by Halifax  especially as the payments were being made to Mr Bs genuine cryptocurrency 
wallets. 
At the time, there was no way for Halifax to have known that Mr B was making 
payments to a scam company. The payments were of a similar value to payments hed 
made in the previous months which indicated a propensity to make small value 
payments up to around £600. And so, Im not persuaded that any of these transactions 
wouldve looked particularly unusual to Halifax. It is now only with the benefit of 
hindsight that we now know these payments were being made as the result of a scam 
and I dont agree that there was anything inherently suspicious about them at the time. 
It is important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that Halifax shouldve 
identified the payments Mr B made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax couldve done more to help Mr B once it was notified 
of the scam, but I dont think it could. As, Ive said the payments had been made to Mr Bs 
genuine cryptocurrency wallets and had already been moved on. And so any potential 
chargeback, in respect of the debit card payments wouldve more than likely been 
unsuccessful in addition to having to be made against Mr B himself.  
Finally, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr B has found 
himself in. But at the same time, dont think his loss was caused by any specific failing on 
behalf of Halifax. The fault here lies with the cruel and callous acts of the fraudsters 
themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman