DRN-3568568
The complaint
Miss P complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund money she was tricked into 
transferring to a fraudster.
What happened
Miss P opened an account with Wise in May 2020. Between July and October 2020, she 
sent four payments totalling around £17,000 to what she believed was a genuine investment 
firm. Unfortunately for Miss P, she was actually falling victim to a scam. 
Miss P first came across an advert for the firm on a popular social media platform. She left 
her details and was soon contacted by someone who persuaded her to make an initial 
investment by card of a little under £1,000.
Miss P could see her investment on a trading platform provided by the fraudster and she 
appeared to be generating profits. Because of this apparent success, the fraudster, with the 
aid of software which allows a third party to take control of a computer, guided her through 
setting up, and making payments to, a genuine intermediary. Miss P says she was able to 
see her funds both crediting and leaving the account at the genuine intermediary before 
appearing on the trading platform provided by the fraudster.
After Miss Ps deposit of just over £5,000 in August 2020 appeared to be generating good 
profits, she asked to withdraw some of those gains. At this point the fraudster claimed that a 
fee would be needed in order to withdraw the money. That fee was of just over £3,500. But, 
after Miss P made the payment, the fraudster claimed it hadnt been received and would 
need to be made again. So, on the basis that the previous payment would be refunded, Miss 
P made another payment of the same amount. 
This time the fraudsters asked her to wait for three weeks until the contract had expired. 
Miss P waited, but when she asked to withdraw funds again, she was told that yet another 
fee was required  just over £4,000. Miss P paid this amount but was then unable to contact 
the fraudsters. Realising that shed been scammed, Miss P reported the matter to Wise.
Wise said that it couldnt be held responsible for the payments Miss P made as she had 
authorised them herself. It also said that the recipient account wasnt fraudulent because it 
was an account that Miss P had opened and used.
 
In relation to the card payment, Wise said that Miss P had raised the matter too long after 
the transaction for it to be disputed through the card scheme operator. It, in any case, 
doubted that such a dispute would have been successful.
Miss P referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators upheld her complaint 
in part. They thought that the activity on Miss Ps account ought to have caused Wise 
concern and they should have questioned her about the first transfer she made. Had they 
done so, the investigator thought, the scam would have been prevented. However, they 
thought that Miss P hadnt acted reasonably when shed continued to make payments in 
order to pay previously undisclosed fees. So, the investigator said Wise should refund all of 
the first transfer (but not the first card payment), but only 50% of the subsequent payments.
Miss P agreed, but Wise didnt. In summary, it said:
- It did not agree that the £5,000 payment was out of character for a user matching 
Miss Ps profile and pointed out that shed made payments in that currency before.
- It doubted whether an intervention would have made a difference to Miss Ps 
decision to go ahead  as shed already carried out the research it was likely to have 
recommended.
- It didnt think that the rate of return promised to Miss P was unrealistic, given the 
volatility in the cryptocurrency market at the time. 
- The payments went to an account in her own name, which was much less likely to 
have triggered its security systems.
- The complaint should properly be directed towards the beneficiary of the faster 
payments, where Miss P also held an account, particularly as shes alleged that her 
account at that business was accessed without her authority.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss P authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of her account she is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Its first important to state that I can only consider the complaint which has been brought to 
our service. I acknowledge that the payments Miss P made went to an account held in her 
own name (albeit one created under the direction of the fraudsters). Nevertheless, I think the 
obligations on Wise Ive outlined still apply. 
Miss P has confirmed that she has neither complained to, nor received any redress from, the 
other financial business. Wise suggests that Miss Ps complaint about the other financial 
business might be successful on the basis that she has alleged that the transactions made from that account werent authorised by her. But, while I dont have the full facts of that 
matter and it isnt my role to consider the liability of the other financial business, it appears 
that Miss P both knew about and consented to the activity which took place on that account. 
So, Ive thought about whether Wise should have been concerned by the activity which took 
place on Miss Ps account. Miss P only opened her account in May 2020, so there wasnt a 
significant amount of activity to compare the disputed transactions against. But, there was 
some, and I think this was enough to build up a picture of what her typical account activity 
was  Miss P credited the account and used her card for everyday spending. I cant see that 
there were any payments, other than card payments, between account opening and the 
second disputed payment. Other than the disputed card payment, the next largest 
transaction was only just over £100. 
I dont think that the disputed card payment of £999 should have caused Wise any concern, 
given its size and the fact that Miss P had generally used the account for card purchases up 
to that point. But I think the first disputed transfer of just over £5,000, based on its size, the 
fact it went to a new payee and was a type of payment Miss P didnt ordinarily make, did 
stand out as being unusual against previous account activity. 
Wise says that it would have no reason to find the payment suspicious because it was going 
to an account in Miss Ps own name. But, other than the payee name shed entered 
matching her own, its not at all clear that Wise knew that the payment was going to an 
account in Miss Ps own name. In fact, the evidence suggests that this was only revealed 
later, once Wise had contacted the receiving firm. 
I dont think the fact the payee name matched her own was enough for Wise to conclude that 
Miss P wasnt at risk of financial harm from fraud. In the context of certain scams, notably 
safe account scams, it might be expected that the payee name entered would match that of 
the account holder. And, though the balance of Miss Ps account wasnt significantly reduced 
after this payment (in a way that might be consistent with a safe account scam), Wise would 
not have been able to rule out that possibility at the time the first payment was being made.
In addition, payments made, or appearing to be made, to a consumers own account 
(particularly if the recipient is associated with cryptocurrency) are not free from risk and can 
form part of a well-known pattern of fraud. 
It doesnt appear Wise gave any kind of warning before allowing this payment to proceed. I 
think, based on the concern it should have had about the payment, it ought to have done 
and I think that warning should have taken the form of a conversation with Miss P.
Had that happened, I think that Wise would have been well-placed to identify that Miss Ps 
circumstances had all the hallmarks of a very common scam, such as:
- Dealings with an unregulated trading platform, advertising on social media.
- The provision of a trading account which appeared to be generating significant    
profits, despite little or no understanding on the part of Miss P of how these profits 
were being generated.
- The encouragement by the fraudster to invest greater sums into the investment.
- The use of software to take control of Miss Ps computer. 
- The fact that the fraudsters asked her to open an account at an intermediary and 
seemed to have some control over it.
- The fact she was promised 10% returns as a minimum. While the cryptocurrency 
market might have been volatile and large returns were possible, no genuine 
investment firm could guarantee returns from speculation on the value of 
cryptocurrency.Given that, as far as Im aware, Miss P was not given a cover story, theres no reason to 
think that she wouldnt have divulged this information had Wise contacted her. Had it 
identified this information, which I think is more than likely, I think it would have been able to 
give a strong warning that she was falling victim to a scam, a warning sufficient to dissuade 
her from continuing. 
While Wise argue that Miss P was already determined to go ahead at this point and had 
done her own research, I cant see this extended beyond reading a few (likely fake) reviews, 
so Im not persuaded that she wouldnt have listened to Wises warning which, given its 
knowledge of scams and the techniques of fraudsters, is likely to have been much more 
powerful than the comments of strangers on the internet. 
Overall, I think Wise didnt do enough here and, had it done more, Miss Ps loss would have 
been prevented. 
Ive also thought about Miss Ps role in what happened. Shes an inexperienced investor and 
I can understand why aspects of this scam were convincing. Although the fraudsters 
website is no longer accessible, the screenshots Ive seen of the application show it had a 
reasonably professional appearance. The emails she received from the fraudsters contain 
glossy and professional looking signatures and some letter-headed paperwork was provided. 
I can also imagine that the fraudsters apparent knowledge of financial markets would have 
seemed compelling. Therefore, I think that up to the point of the first £3,511.60 payment 
Miss P acted reasonably.
However, following her request to withdraw funds, the nature of the scam changed. The 
fraudster now demanded money in order to release her funds. I think this should have 
caused Miss P serious concern as, based on her own testimony, shed previously been 
advised that withdrawals could happen at any time. I think it should have also caused her 
some worry that the withdrawal fee could not have been simply deducted from her apparent 
gains. And, by her own account, when she later checked reviews of the company, she could 
see very negative ones had appeared. I think at the point of making the third payment she 
probably ought to have made further enquiries before continuing.
That means Ive decided that Wise should refund Miss P in full for the £5,000.60 transaction, 
but that, taking into account her role in what happened, a deduction of 50% should be made 
from the refund of the other three payments. In relation to interest, it doesnt appear that 
Miss P had any specific plans for this money after it had been moved into her Wise account, 
other than to make some payments to a relative. So, as the Wise account is not interest 
bearing, I dont think that any interest should be paid.
Finally, in relation to Wises attempts to recover Miss Ps funds, this was never going to be 
possible as Miss P moved the money into her own account at another financial business and 
it was sent to the fraudster.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold in part this complaint against Wise Payments 
Limited and instruct it to pay Miss P:
- The amount of the second disputed payment - £5,000.60
- 50% of the amounts of payments three, four and five - £5,512.40Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman