DRN-3180288
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect them from 
what they say was an investment scam.
Mr B is the lead complainant to this service, so Ill refer to him throughout the decision. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr B saw an advert on social media which showed a well-known celebrity 
endorsing an investment. Mr B went to a website run by the merchant  Ill refer to as A. 
After putting his personal details on the website, Mr B was asked to make a £250 payment to 
A  which he did with his credit card. 
Mr B was then called by someone representing A and discussed how to open a trading 
account. He then started to invest with A paying a total of £190,749 on his debit card until 
April 2020. Mr B saw that his trades started to go down and questioned this with A. He also 
went online and started to see the negative reviews about A. So, he contacted HSBC to 
report the scam. 
HSBC asked for information from Mr B in June 2020 to see if it could raise a chargeback but 
after receiving this it refused to continue with a chargeback. It said A was a legitimate 
financial services provider regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission 
(CySec). It noted that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had stopped As permission to 
trade in the UK from 1 June 2020 with A being told to close any open positions and return 
any positive cash balances to customers. And following the intervention of CySec Mr B did 
receive around £26,000 of refunds from A. Unhappy with this response Mr B brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that at the time of the 
payments she wasnt satisfied that A could be considered to be acting fraudulently. Thats 
because when Mr B was making the payments to A, it was regulated by CySec and was 
given passporting permissions by the FCA up to 28 May 2020. So, she said she couldnt be 
sure enough that A was operating a scam and therefore couldnt be fairly and reasonably be 
regarded as fraudulent. 
The investigator added that Mr B didnt have the necessary evidence to raise a successful 
chargeback so HSBCs decision to raise a chargeback wasnt unfair. 
Mr B didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he had been the 
victim here and was vulnerable to the scam that unfolded. He said HSBCs misconduct 
resulted in him losing his life savings and that his transactions were sufficiently unusual and 
uncharacteristic for HSBC to stop the payments and discuss them with him. And if this had 
happened, he wouldnt have agreed to proceed with the payments. 
The complaint was passed to me and I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I didnt think 
HSBC wouldve been able to stop and prevent it given that A were regulated by CySec and 
had passporting rights through the FCA at the time of the scam. 
Mr B didnt agree. In summary he said that HSBC still shouldve picked up on the 
international warnings and reviews about A. And if it had this wouldve stopped the scam. He 
said he was vulnerable to this type of scam, and the FCA shouldve identified the issues with 
A earlier. He added that HSBC failed to raise a chargeback and that his complaint should 
only be based upon facts and not based upon a what couldve been done argument. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr B feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Should HSBC have done more to stop the payments and what difference would it have 
made?
Mr B has said CySec has confirmed that A violated the law and worked outside of its 
authorisation. He said that its clear A was acting fraudulently and was running a scam and 
the FCA had put in place rules about firms that offered trading in CFDs and CFD like 
options. He said that the above and HSBCs knowledge of fraud and scams shouldve meant 
his payments were stopped and therefore should be refunded. 
Ive reconsidered the full file including Mr Bs latest submission to this service. But Im still of 
the opinion that even if HSBC had stopped the payments Mr B made on his debit card, it 
wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome here. I appreciate Mr B isnt happy with me 
offering a decision based on what most likely wouldve happened. But where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
In order for HSBC to step in and clearly tell Mr B this was likely a scam and provide him with 
a clear fraud and scams warning it would need to be satisfied that  at the time of the 
payments  thats what A was doing. I appreciate the points Mr B has made about the FCA 
and what CySec have said after his payments were made. And that he wasnt someone who 
took risks. But if HSBC had stopped the payments and asked why Mr B was making them it 
wouldve seen that he was making the payments to a firm that had passporting rights to 
operate in the UK and was regulated by CySec. 
Ive seen that there were warnings about A from other international countries at the time. 
But, Im satisfied, on balance, the passporting rights from the FCA wouldve been more 
persuasive to HSBC here. When considering whether a customer is being scammed, HSBC 
would refer them to the FCA website to see if it was regulated. And A was regulated at the 
time. So, HSBC wasnt likely to offer a fraud and scams warning about another regulated 
company. 
Overall, I dont think HSBC could reasonably have concluded during a telephone 
conversation with Mr B that A was a scam company given that the warning notice from the FCA came after Mr B made the payments. I also wouldnt expect it to pay too much attention 
to online reviews because its not possible to verify those comments even if they are large in 
number. That would be up to the consumer to review and consider before entering into an 
investment or sending payments to a merchant. And to be clear, just because HSBC didnt 
flag the payments as suspicious doesnt automatically mean that it should be held 
responsible for the loss.
Even if HSBC had provided a generic fraud and scams warning, and to be clear I dont think 
it had to here, I dont think this wouldve made a difference for the same reasons HSBC 
wouldnt have been concerned. Mainly because of the passporting rights that A had been 
afforded by the FCA to operate in this country.  
So, although Ive understood everything Mr B has said about his personal circumstances 
and knowledge of investments, I dont think HSBC calling Mr B to discuss the payments 
before it allowed them through here wouldve made a difference  I think its most likely that 
Mr B wouldve proceeded with them anyway. 
Chargeback
Because all the payments that HSBC hasnt refunded were made on a debit card, 
chargeback was the only option for HSBC to potentially pursue a refund for Mr B. Whilst 
there are some protections under the relevant chargeback scheme, this isnt a guarantee of 
a refund. 
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr B. 
The rules of the scheme and the evidence requirements are very specific. I wouldnt expect 
HSBC to pursue a chargeback where there wasnt a reasonable prospect of it succeeding. 
And a lack of the required evidence is one scenario where I think a claim would be unlikely 
to succeed. 
Mr B has said that the potentially relevant chargeback reasons under the scheme rules here 
were 13.3 and 13.5. HSBC has said that Mr B had no chargeback rights due to a lack of 
evidence. 
13.3 is for services not as described. For claims under this reason code to have succeeded 
at Visas final stage of arbitration, HSBC wouldve needed to provide evidence that A made 
written representations to Mr B guaranteeing an amount of profit/return he was due to 
receive. He might have received various verbal predictions and promises from A about his 
potential returns when he was asked to continually put more money in. But I have not seen 
any evidence that Mr B received any such written representations from A, so Im satisfied 
HSBC didnt treat Mr B unfairly by not raising a chargeback under this reason code. 
13.5 required HSBC to present dated evidence that Mr B had an available balance (in the 
form of a screenshot or confirmation from the merchant) and that he tried to withdraw sums 
equal to, or less than, his available balances on the same day.
Ive considered that Mr B wasnt able to obtain this evidence at the appropriate time because 
he didnt realise there was anything wrong until his balance had started to reduce dramatically, and it was then too late to get the necessary evidence because he had already 
lost all his money on As platform. Thats because in June 2020 Mr B sent a letter of 
complaint to A which said there was no money left in his account and the money that was 
returned was because of CySecs intervention. 
Ive seen Mr B did ask for a withdrawal in April 2020 before he made his complaint to A. But 
there wasnt a screenshot of an available balance. The account summary says Mr B asked 
for £29,004 but this was cancelled a few days later. Mr B provided some e-mail chains with 
A in April 2020 that mentioned the withdrawal but the e-mails from A said he needed to 
provide some documents and it would make a payment to him. It looks to me from that e-
mail chain that Mr B agreed to cancel the withdrawal request and agreed to a £10,000 credit 
on the SWAPS because there is an e-mail from Mr B in May 2020 saying he was waiting for 
the credit. And the remaining balance Mr B provided a screenshot of on 3 June 2020 of 
around £15,000 was returned to his account later than month. 
So, I can see Mr B tried to make withdrawals at different points. But the card schemes rules 
are there to be applied consistently on all cases and HSBC is aware that not having this 
specific evidence will lead to the chargeback not being successful. And the reasons for not 
having this evidence are issues HSBC cant pursue on Mr Bs behalf under the chargeback 
scheme. So, Im satisfied it fairly told Mr B there was no prospect of his chargeback for these 
funds being successful here.
Mr B has mentioned his vulnerability to fall for a scam due to him being an inexperienced 
trader without a financial degree. I appreciate what Mr B has said but this service would only 
consider the vulnerabilities of a consumer which HSBC was aware of at the time of the 
payments. But thats not the case here. 
Having carefully considered this complaint, Im acutely aware of the significant impact this 
whole situation has had on Mr B. And Im of course very sorry to hear that he has lost such a 
significant amount of money. Ive no reason to doubt his testimony that there were some 
sharp sales and trading practices involved. But Im afraid I dont think HSBC are responsible 
for his loss here. 
So, Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman