DRN-4414608
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) 
irresponsibly gave a loan that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In July 2016 Mr P asked for and was given a loan for £6,000 which had a term of five 
years. The purpose of the loan was to refinance debt. 
In 2022, Mr P complained to Tesco Bank to say that the loan shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable and that Tesco Bank ought to have made a better 
effort to understand his financial circumstances before providing him with credit. Tesco 
Bank declined to uphold the complaint. And Mr P brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr P didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Tesco Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ps complaint is that Tesco Bank made credit available that was unaffordable. Tesco 
Bank has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr P provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they also carried out a credit search in Mr 
Ps name to assess Mr Ps level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. And they requested and considered Mr Ps most recent bank 
statement before making their lending decision. That seems like proportionate checks for 
a loan amount that was reasonably modest, in itself and in relation to Mr Ps declared 
income. 
With that information and using their own scoring metric, Tesco Bank decided to agree to 
the loan. And Mr P declared an income that was not modest compared to the amount of 
loan he was applying for. Both the income and expenditure exercise that took place 
before the lending and the bank statements Mr P provided with his application suggested 
that the new borrowing was affordable. 
The Tesco Bank checks showed that Mr Ps credit file was clean at the time of the loan 
application. When I say this, I mean that Mr Ps management of his existing credit showed 
no recent history of CCJs, defaults or bankruptcies. So, it would have seemed to Tesco 
Bank from the information they had from credit reference agencies that, at the point that 
the lending decision was made, Mr P was affording his existing credit. And so, Tesco 
Bank were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I 
dont think that the information that Tesco Bank had at the time of the lending decision, 
would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr Ps 
financial position before they lent money to Mr P.  
Its possible that not all of the borrowing Mr P had, showed on the credit checks performed 
by Tesco Bank. Mr P has said that to us. Not every credit check agency can see all of 
someones credit. And very recent borrowings take time before they appear on such 
checks. This does not mean that Tesco Bank were automatically negligent if their checks 
did not reveal the full extent of Mr Ps borrowings. And as has been mentioned Mr Ps 
management of his existing borrowing had not adversely affected his credit history at the 
time he applied for this loan to the extent that made the loan irresponsibly lent.  
Mr P thinks the weight of his existing credit was underestimated by Tesco Bank and the 
existing debt made the loan unreasonable. But Mr P told Tesco Bank that the purpose of 
the loan was to pay off other debts. So, I dont see the provision of the loan as evidence 
solely of new credit being provided by Tesco Bank, adding to an already existing amount 
of personal borrowing. Instead, rather than the new credit adding to Mr Ps burden of 
credit, in terms of total debt and the monthly cost of servicing that debt, it looks like Mr P 
was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by taking out 
this loan and using it to pay off other debts that were presumably on less favourable 
terms. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for Tesco Bank to have facilitated 
that. 
Ive noted that the statements provided to Tesco Bank showed a largely well managed 
account, with equivalent amounts going out compared to the amounts going into the 
account. I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information that Tesco Bank 
acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to 
think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Ps finances more closely. 
And I have seen no evidence that Mr P made Tesco Bank aware of his gambling at the 
time the loan was applied for. And the account had not been adversely affected by it at 
the time the loan was taken out. The evidence that Tesco Bank had presented to it by Mr 
P and that they sourced for themselves at the time, suggested that gambling was not a 
reason to decline the loan at the time they made their lending decision.
I cannot use hindsight in deciding complaints about unaffordable lending. If financial 
difficulty happened later, after the loan was given, that does not mean that the lender 
failed at the time they made their lending decision. And having considered all the 
submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any extra evidence from Mr P to the 
contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that more thorough affordability checks 
would have led Tesco Bank to think that the credit it provided Mr P was unreasonable, or 
that more searching checks would have prompted them to have acted differently than they 
did. 
I know that Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has 
invested time and energy in pursuing his complaint. And because Mr P has told us he has 
had some other complaints upheld. At this service each complaint is judged on the 
individual circumstances of that particular case. But I want Mr P to know that I considered all the submissions made in this case. But 
having considered all the submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the 
lending decisions, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. I have 
seen insufficient evidence to think that the credit Tesco Bank are responsible for was 
unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman