DRN-3813572
The complaint
Miss H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) sent information to an incorrect email 
address and provided a poor standard of service relating to her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss H contacted Aviva in May 2022 to set up her car insurance. She says she provided her 
correct email address. Miss H says she received a text message about a telematics box, but 
no policy documentation by email or post.  A few days later she phoned Aviva and was told 
documentation had been sent by email. This had been sent to an incorrect email address. 
Miss H says Avivas agent expressed very little remorse, which upset her. 
Miss H says she tried to speak with a manager. When this eventually happened after lengthy 
periods on hold. She says she was very upset by this point and feared for her personal 
safety as her personal data had been breached. Miss H says she submitted a complaint to 
Aviva. She contacted it shortly after for an update without success. Miss H says this 
happened several times. 
Miss H asked for a copy of the call recording when she agreed her policy. The wrong 
recording was provided, which meant more time contacting Aviva. Miss H says this incident 
and the subsequent poor service has impacted on her mental health. She has failed an 
exam as a result of the stress this caused. 
In its complaint response Aviva apologised for its poor standard of service. It says Miss Hs 
email address has been updated to the correct one. It also says the email address it 
originally sent documents to is showing as not valid and its emails havent been opened. 
Aviva accepts this email address could potentially be accessed in the future. But there is no 
indication of this currently. 
Aviva paid Miss H £25 to cover two years registration with the Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System (CIFAS). It also acknowledged the impact on Miss Hs mental health and 
the poor service it provided. It paid her £275 compensation as a result. 
Miss H didnt think this represented a fair outcome given the impact this had on her. She 
asked our service to look into the matter. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He 
says Avivas agent made the error when initially recording the wrong email address. The 
agent did later read out the wrong address, giving Miss H the opportunity to correct this. But 
he says Avivas agent was responsible for the initial error. 
Our investigator acknowledged the emails hadnt been opened. But that this had been a 
stressful experience for Miss H, which had impacted on her mental health. He thought the 
compensation Aviva had paid was fair.     
Miss H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive listened to the call recording when Miss H contacted Aviva to set up her motor insurance 
policy. Early on in this call shes asked to provide her telephone number and email address, 
which she does. The call is quite lengthy around 50 minutes long in total. Around 42 minutes 
in Avivas agent repeats Miss Hs email address back to her. The email the agent confirms is 
incorrect. Miss H responds to say uh huh twice. This was an opportunity for her to correct 
Avivas agent, but she didnt.
The call was fairly long. I understand Miss H told our investigator that she was going 
through the motions at this point. However, there was an opportunity here for her to correct 
the agent and ensure the right email address had been added to her account. That said, if 
the agent had recorded the correct email address in the first place  this wouldnt have been 
necessary.
Miss H explains that she suffers from anxiety and this matter has caused her a great deal of 
stress and upset. Shes been worried about possible fraud and other issues as a result of 
her personal information being accessed. She also describes a negative experience when 
discussing the matter with Aviva after the error was known. 
Im sorry that Miss H has been upset by this experience. I can understand why she was 
worried about possible fraud and frustrated with the service she received when dealing with 
this matter. I acknowledge her concerns that it took some time to speak to a manager and 
misleading information was provided by Avivas agents in this respect. It was also 
disappointing for her that updates and call backs she requested werent acted upon. 
Ive seen screen prints from Avivas records that show the emails it sent to the incorrect 
address havent been opened. I also acknowledge what it says about this address showing 
as invalid. Meaning this isnt currently accessible by anyone. Hopefully this is of some 
comfort to Miss H, although I understand the email address could possibly be accessed in 
future. I think its fair that Aviva confirms it will consider any future impact this might should 
Miss H send it proof of this. 
Aviva has paid £25 to cover the cost of CIFAS membership for two years. I think this is 
reasonable and will provide Miss H with some protection from fraud going forwards. It has 
also paid £275 for the impact this has had on Miss Hs mental health. And for the poor 
service it provided, including sending the wrong call recording  which I note it has since 
corrected. 
I think its fair that Aviva acknowledges the impact all of this had on Miss H. By no means is 
my intention to diminish the upset she experienced, but I think Aviva has been fair in the 
compensation it provided, and in the apology it gave when responding to Miss Hs complaint. 
So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman