DRN-3372551
The complaint
Mrs J complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) hasnt given her a 
refund of the premium she paid for her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 2 May 2020 to cover a cruise in 
August 2020. The insurer was AIG. Mrs J paid a total of £71.30 for the policy. The policy 
included cover for a medical condition and cruise cover.
Mrs Js cruise was cancelled by the provider, and the provider offered her the option to 
receive a refund or move the cruise dates to August 2021. Upon Mrs Js request, AIG 
agreed to move the policy dates to cover the new cruise dates, so Mrs J moved her cruise to 
August 2021.
In February 2021 the cruise was cancelled again by the provider, with Mrs J given the same 
options as before  either receive a refund or move the cruise dates to August 2022. Mrs J 
chose to move the cruise dates again, as shed done it before.
Mrs J then asked the insurer to move the policy dates to cover the new cruise dates in 
August 2022. But AIG refused because the new dates were now more than 18 months past 
the original policy purchase date. Mrs J then asked AIG for a refund of the premium she paid 
for the policy. AIG again refused, as Mrs J hadnt cancelled within the 14-day cooling off 
period. Unhappy with AIGs response, Mrs J brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this complaint. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt 
make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the 
policy started on 2 May 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
But he thought it was important to take into account that when Mrs J bought the policy, 
Covid-19 was already a known event. The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential travel on 17 March 2020 as a response to Covid-19. And Mrs J bought the policy 
on 2 May 2020.
Overall, the investigator thought it was reasonable to believe Mrs J wouldve been aware 
that her trip might not go ahead as planned to due Covid-19 and that she wouldnt have full 
use of the policy. So, he didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to ask AIG to step outside 
the industry guidelines or terms and conditions of the policy and provide Mrs J a refund.
Mrs J didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, she says the cruise was 
cancelled due to government action, and she doesnt think AIG has acted fairly by not 
offering a refund. Mrs J also doesnt think the cruise provider offering a refund should have 
any relevance to her complaint about the insurer. She says that AIG set a precedent by 
allowing her to move her policy dates already once from 2020 to 2021, so it shouldve done 
so again from 2021 to 2022. Mrs J doesnt think shes benefitted from the policy.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy terms and conditions of Mrs Js policy outline her cancellation rights under the 
contract. They say: 
ifthis insurance does not meet with Your requirements, please return it to [the policy 
administrator] within 14 days of receipt of Your Policy and they will refund Your premium in 
full, provided You have not commenced Your Trip or made a claim
However, if You cancel after 14 days of receipt of Your Policy:
For Single Trip policies there will be no refund of premium due to You
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
I dont think AIG treated Mrs J unfairly in declining to change the single trip dates to 
more than 18 months from the original purchase date. Based on what Ive seen, AIG 
treated Mrs J the same as it would treat any other policyholder in the same 
circumstances.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And as Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance also says that theres no 
refund for cancellations after the 14-day cooling off period.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk 
 for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered 
during that time. Mrs J bought the policy on 2 May 2020, and since then she was 
covered for a number of listed events insured under the policy. I dont think shes 
been treated unfairly.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. But having considered when the policy was bought, I think Covid-19 was already 
a known event at the time. I think Mrs J took out the policy with the knowledge that 
she may not have full use of it in the event her trip had to be cancelled due to Covid-
19.Overall, I dont think AIG has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman