DRN-4204566
The complaint
Miss F has complained about PRA Group (UK) Limited reporting defaults on her credit file.
What happened
This complaint surrounds four defaulted credit card accounts:
Account ending -9209, which defaulted in June 2020
Accounts ending -5181, -5243, and -3214, which defaulted later that year
All four accounts were sold to PRA in 2020, As PRA had taken ownership of the accounts, 
they were required to take over reporting them on Miss Fs credit file. This meant they 
continued reporting the defaults which the original lenders had previously registered. 
Miss F told PRA she accepted shed defaulted in June 2020, but wanted to dispute the 3 
later defaults. PRA raised disputes with the original lenders on Miss Fs behalf.
Miss F came to our service. She was unhappy that PRA hadnt disputed -9209. She felt the 
original creditor was wrong to register that default. She felt PRA had duplicated the default 
and argued they couldnt report it as she didnt have a contract with them. She said the 
lender for -9209 had confirmed on the phone that that default was a mistake and had agreed 
to remove it.
PRA raised this with the original lender, who said they didnt have a record of agreeing to 
remove that default.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. They felt PRA should have 
raised the dispute for -9209 earlier, and pursued it further. They noted that PRA hadnt 
passed an update to Miss F. They recommended that PRA raise a further dispute and pay 
Miss F £50 compensation.
PRA asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
I sent Miss F and PRA a provisional decision on 1 June 2023, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I should first explain that in this complaint against PRA, I can only consider what PRA did. 
And PRA did not register the defaults  that was done by the original lenders. I cannot hold 
PRA responsible for separate businesses registering defaults before PRA were involved.
If Miss F thinks those defaults were wrongly registered and would like them to be removed, 
her complaint is better directed against the original lenders who registered the defaults. I can 
see that Miss F has started a complaint against the lender for -9209, so shes on the right 
track by taking that matter to them directly. If the original lender agree to remove the default, 
or if we tell the original lender to remove it, then PRA will remove it on their end too as a 
matter of course.
I understand Miss Fs point that her initial contract for -9209 was not with PRA. But lenders 
are allowed to sell debts on and effectively transfer the contract. PRA have provided the 
relevant notice of assignment, where the original lender confirmed theyd sold the debt to 
PRA. This shows that PRA now own the account. Debts can and do get sold on like this, and 
this was a legitimate sale.
Since the original lenders sold the accounts to PRA, PRA became responsible for reporting 
them on Miss Fs credit file. And since the original lenders had already defaulted the 
accounts before selling them, it was correct for PRA to continue reporting the defaults.
Miss F previously raised concerns that PRAs credit file entries are duplicates. I understand 
why she might think that, but I hope I can reassure her they are not duplicates. Theyre just a 
continuation of the same defaults that the original lenders registered. It is correct that PRA 
and the original lenders have separate entries on Miss Fs credit file, because theyre 
separate companies. Thats normal. Lenders are able to see that PRAs entries are just 
continuations of the original lenders entries, and are not duplicates or new defaults.
Of course, when Miss F told PRA that the defaults were mistaken, Id expect PRA to query 
that with the original lenders. But I can see that they did so. They acted quite quickly  for 
example, when Miss F forwarded PRA an email from the lender for -5243 saying that default 
was a mistake, PRA removed that default there and then before even confirming it with the 
lender themselves. And while I understand Miss F recalls disputing the default for -9209 as 
well, Im afraid that as far as I can see, she did not do so until coming to our service.
Ive listened to Miss Fs calls with PRA, and will forward her a copy along with this decision. 
In her call of 7 November 2022, she raised disputes for the 3 later defaults  i.e. accounts 
ending -5181, -5243, and -3214. But she confirmed that the information for account -9209 
was correct and said she did indeed default in June 2020. In her call of 18 November 2022, 
the advisor double-checked that the complaint was about the 3 later defaults, and Miss F 
confirmed it was. And in her call of 12 December 2022, the advisor confirmed to Miss F that 
PRA held 4 accounts for her, 3 of which had a complaint about defaults that was being 
looked into, while account -9209 had an outstanding default. Miss F indicated she accepted 
this, and at the least she didnt raise any objections.
So I cant see that Miss F disputed account -9209 with PRA before coming to our service  
its not in the calls or emails that she and PRA have sent us. Indeed, before coming to our 
service I can see that Miss F wrote to PRA saying they had resolved her complaint 
satisfactorily and explained everything clearly, and she was thankful to them.
I can understand if Miss F got mixed up and thought shed raised a dispute for -9209, as she 
did raise a dispute for account -5181 which was from the same original lender. But as far as 
I can see, the first time she disputed -9209 with PRA was when she approached our service. 
And PRA did then raise a dispute on -9209 for her once they were made aware thats what 
she wanted. So I cant see that PRA did anything substantially wrong there.Our investigator pointed out that PRA didnt pass on an update to Miss F for the -5181 
dispute, and PRA accept that they overlooked that. But the update was just that Miss F 
needed to contact the lender directly to pursue that dispute. And Miss F had already 
confirmed that she was in direct contact with the lender about this. So I cant see that PRA 
caused any substantial harm by forgetting to pass that update on.
Similarly, our investigator thought PRA shouldve taken the dispute for -9209 further, as they 
thought the lender had implied that they didnt have any record of the account. But I think its 
clear that the lender was just saying they didnt have any record of telling Miss F theyd 
remove the default for -9209.
Our investigator also thought PRA shouldve forwarded Miss Fs complaint about -9209 to 
the original lender. But Miss F had already logged her complaint about the original lender 
with our service in March 2023, at the same time she logged her complaint about PRA. So 
Im not sure what it would achieve for PRA to raise a duplicate complaint with the lender. 
Overall, I think PRA broadly handled things well here. They raised the disputes Miss F asked 
them to in good time, and communicated clearly  aside from overlooking the one update, 
which wont have had a significant effect. I dont think I can reasonably make an award 
against PRA here. Again, PRA didnt default the accounts themselves and arent responsible 
for the accounts defaulting. There isnt really much more PRA can reasonably do now. 
Miss Fs complaint is better directed against the original lender.
So if Miss F would like to pursue her complaint about the default for -9209, I think the best 
thing is for her to continue her complaint against the original lender directly. Ill ask our 
investigator to help her move that forward. As I mentioned above, if the original lender agree 
to remove that default, or if we tell them to remove it, then PRA will remove the default on 
their end anyway. I hope that makes the next steps clearer for her.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
15 June 2023. PRA had nothing further to add. Miss F made some further submissions, 
which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F said PRA told her theyd look into things with the lender for accounts ending -5181 
and -9209, but didnt. She forwarded some emails she had with PRA.
To reiterate, Miss F only raised a dispute for account -5181 with PRA  she didnt dispute 
account -9209 until she came to our service. And I can see that PRA then raised Miss Fs 
dispute for account -5181 with the original lender, as they were supposed to. They confirmed 
to Miss F in November and December 2022 that theyd done so and hadnt heard back yet.
As Miss F rightly pointed out, PRA forgot to update her with the result of that dispute. But as 
I explained in the provisional decision, the result was that the lender rejected the dispute and 
said Miss F needed to contact them directly to pursue it further. And Miss F had already 
confirmed that she was in direct contact with the lender about this. So I cant see that PRA 
caused any substantial harm by forgetting to pass that update on.Miss F asked PRA to show when she defaulted with them and what notice they sent. But as 
I explained before, PRA did not register a new or duplicate default, they just continued to 
report the same default that the original lender registered. PRA were supposed to do this, 
since when they took ownership of the account they became responsible for reporting it on 
Miss Fs credit file from then on  including continuing to report the existing default. As it was 
not a new or separate default, PRA did not have to send a new or separate default notice.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the 
same reasons. As before, I hope I can reassure Miss F that this debt sale was legitimate and 
that PRA correctly reported what they were supposed to as the new owner. Her complaint is 
better directed against the original lender, as they originally defaulted the accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman