DRN-3889792
The complaint
Mrs K complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has treated her unfairly in 
connection with refunds she wished to claim for two debit card transactions on her current 
account. 
Mrs K is represented in her complaint by a claims management company, FA.
What happened
The background of the case is well known to all parties so I will outline this only briefly:
Mrs K signed a contract with a Spanish company Ill call AD on 19 October 2020. 
The contract was described as a Nullification Contract, the purpose of which was to 
arrange for Mrs K to be released from a timeshare obligation.
Mrs K made two payments to AD using a debit card linked to her RBS current 
account: £1,267 on 20 October 2020 and £4,751 on 26 October 2020. 
The contract stated that the process of nullification would be passed to a third party 
and would take no longer than 12 months from the date of the balance payment.
The contract was not fulfilled by AD within the time specified or at all, and it ceased 
trading. The third-party company1 which AD had engaged to carry out the 
nullification, said it had not been paid by AD.
On 22 March 2022 FA wrote to RBS on Mrs Ks behalf to ask the bank to carry out 
chargebacks on the two debit card transactions because the services paid for had 
not been received.
RBS ultimately declined to take chargebacks forward because it said it was too late 
to do so under the rules of the Visa card scheme. 
Mrs K complained about this decision and the complaint was ultimately referred to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and agreed with RBS that it had been too late 
for the bank to be able to claim Mrs Ks money back via a chargeback. FA disagreed, stating 
that the relevant window of time had been extended because the contract with AD had been 
an ongoing one. No agreement could be reached and so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 This third party company is an associate company of Mrs Ks representative, sharing the same 
director.
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person buys goods or services using a debit card, there is no automatic right to a 
refund from their bank if something goes wrong with their purchase. However, a bank may 
be able to help their customer through the dispute resolution system administered by the 
card scheme whose logo appears on the card (Visa in this case). Disputes raised via this 
system are commonly referred to as chargebacks.
Chargebacks are not a way of determining someones legal rights to a refund from a 
merchant in relation to a purchase, they are just a way of settling disputes according to the 
rules set by the card schemes. The rules cover various aspects of the dispute process 
including the timeframes in which claims must be submitted.
I would normally expect a bank to attempt a chargeback on behalf of a customer looking to 
bring a dispute, so long as there was a reasonable prospect of the chargeback succeeding 
and attempting one would be in line with the scheme rules.
In this case, RBS considered it was too late under the scheme rules, when it was contacted 
by FA on Mrs Ks behalf, to be able to take forward chargebacks on the transactions. FA 
disagrees, saying the scheme rules allow for extensions in time to be made when a contract 
is ongoing.
Ive carefully considered the rules which would have applied at the time FA approached RBS 
with Mrs Ks claim. For scenarios where goods or services have been purchased and not 
been received, like here, the relevant part of the rules says the following:
A Dispute must be processed no later than any of the following:
120 calendar days from the Transaction Processing Date
120 calendar days from the last date that the Cardholder expected to receive the 
merchandise or services [not to exceed 540 days from the Transaction Processing 
Date]
Ive also considered Mrs Ks contract with AD. I think the following sections are particularly 
relevant to this complaint:
3. I/We understand that AD will engage the services of a third-party legal partner to nullify 
the above ownership(s). I/We acknowledge that the nullification could take up to but no 
longer than 12 months from receipt of my/our balance payment, however if I/we have future 
holidays booked using the above ownership(s), the nullification will be 12 months from the 
end date of our final holiday
And:
9. I/We confirm that AD will offer a full refund should my/our ownership not be nullified 
within the above stated time period, providing I/we (the Client(s)) have complied with the 
terms of the contract to the best of my/our ability.
Reading the AD terms together, I think Mrs K would have expected AD to have arranged for 
the nullification of her timeshare by 26 October 2021 at the latest.2 Theres been no 
suggestion that she had a holiday booked which would have meant the 12 month window 
2 Arguably in Mrs Ks case she would have known that AD would not be providing the service she paid 
for earlier, on 29 September 2021, because the third party company emailed her on that date to say it 
had not been paid by AD and therefore the nullification work could not be completed.would have started later.
I note that clause 4 of the contract with AD says: the contract will remain in place until AD 
have completed the terms as stated above, and that FA may have this in mind when it 
argues the contract was essentially open-ended. However, I think clause 4 is confirming the 
contract will remain in place until it has been discharged in accordance with clause 3  either 
through nullification of the timeshare within the timeframe specified, or on expiry of the 
timeframe without successful nullification.
This means RBS had 120 calendar days from 26 October 2021 to process a chargeback, 
and therefore the last day a chargeback could have been attempted was 23 February 2022. 
FA did not contact the bank until March 2022, which was outside of the window of time 
allowed by the card scheme rules.
So for the same reasons as our investigator, I conclude that by the time Mrs Ks claim was 
brought to RBSs attention, it was too late for the bank to be able to assist via the 
chargeback process, and therefore it did not treat her unfairly by declining to take any 
chargebacks forward.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman