DRN-3628357
The complaint
Miss D complains that RAC Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a breakdown 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to RAC, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include the 
recovery company, recovery drivers and others insofar as I hold RAC responsible for their 
acts or omissions
What happened
For the year from mid-July 2020, Miss D had breakdown insurance with RAC. The policy 
schedule included Roadside Rescue and Onward Travel linked to a Roadside Rescue 
call-out.
On a Saturday in June 2021, Miss D was driving her daughter (of school age) and her 
mother (who was in her seventies) in her large four-wheel-drive vehicle when its battery 
warning light came on. They were a long way from home. 
She called RAC for help at about 10:37. The recovery didnt happen until 15:03.
RAC didnt communicate properly with Miss D about her onward travel entitlements. In the 
end, she asked the recovery driver to take her to a regional airport where she hired a car. He 
asked her to pay £20.00 which she did.
Miss D drove home on the following Monday. The recovery company took the car to a 
garage.
In late June 2021, Miss D complained to RAC about its response.
By a final response dated mid-September 2021 and a follow-up email, RAC accepted the 
complaint and made an offer as follows:
recovery charge refund £  20.00
refund of hire charges 3 days @ £35.00 £105.00
fuel       £  50.00
gesture of goodwill £150.00
total £325.00
Unhappy with that, Miss D brought her complaint to us in mid-October 2021.
Our investigator said we could only deal with Miss Ds complaint insofar as it was about 
onward travel. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He 
thought RAC had acknowledge their mistakes. He thought that the offer was in line with what 
he would expect. 
Miss D disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against a regulated 
financial firm about regulated financial activities.
RAC was the insurer of the Onward Travel section (Section D) of Miss Ds breakdown 
policy. Like the investigator, I will only comment on Miss Ds complaint insofar as it is about 
RACs response under that section.
RAC has acknowledged that it didnt deal properly with Miss Ds claim for onward travel 
benefits.
I dont underestimate the traumatic experience Miss D had on 19 June 2021. I accept that 
she also had the inconvenience of returning the hire car and collecting her vehicle after 
repair. 
But I have to focus on RACs failure to deal properly with Miss Ds claim for onward travel 
benefits  and the impact of that failure.
I consider that this failure was the cause of Miss D asking to be taken in the tow truck to get 
to a car hire desk before it closed, for which the recovery driver asked her to pay £20.00. 
She has described a tense and frightening journey with her daughter and mother. 
Fortunately Miss D was able to get a hire car. 
After Miss complained, RAC apologised and tried to put things right. It offered to refund the 
£20.00. It offered to pay Miss D the maximum onward travel hire car benefit of 3 days @ 
£35.00. 
RAC also offered a contribution towards fuel  on the basis that if it had supplied the hire car 
it wouldve given her the option to have it delivered and collected at an extra charge of 
£12.00 each way. Notwithstanding that Miss D didnt provide receipts, it offered £50.00 for 
fuel.
RAC also offered £150.00 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Ive thought about whether I wouldve directed RAC to pay Miss D any more money 
(including for distress and inconvenience) if it hadnt made its offer. Overall, Im satisfied that 
RACs offer was fair and reasonable.
From what Ive seen, I dont think Miss D accepted the offer or that RAC made payment. I 
expect RAC to honour its offer. But I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct RAC to do any 
more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct RAC Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
Christopher GilbertOmbudsman