DRN-4156929
The complaint
Mr A complains that a deposit he paid using his pre-paid card provided by Equals Money UK 
Limited trading as Card One Money hasnt been returned.
What happened
Mr A paid a deposit to a hire car company on 25 January 2023. He says that the deposit was 
returned to his card on 24 February 2023 but that this hasnt been credited to his account. 
Card One Money issued a final response letter dated 16 March 2023 not upholding Mr As 
complaint. It explained that when a transaction is authorised the amount due to be paid is 
placed into a 'pending' status, awaiting completion by the merchant. This is to ringfence' 
these funds ready for when the merchant completes the transaction to protect the card from 
going into a negative balance. If the transaction is not completed within an agreed period, 
the funds will be released back to the card. It said that a transaction was authorised on 
Mr As card on 25 January 2023, for an amount of around £867. Because the merchant did 
not complete the transaction the money was returned to Mr As card on 10 February 2023. It 
said the correct procedures had been followed. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Card One Moneys response and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that evidence had been provided to 
show that the transaction that was made on 25 January 2023 was reversed on 10 February 
2023. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the car hire company would retain the 
deposit until the car was returned and while Card One Money said the money was returned 
on 10 February, he was still renting the car at that time. He said the car was returned on 24 
February 2023 which was when the deposit should have been returned. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A paid a deposit to a hire car company on 25 January 2023. He has explained that the 
initial deposit request was declined and then a lower amount requested which went through. 
One Card Money has provided the relevant transaction history, and this shows the initial 
declined transaction (where the requested amount was higher than the available balance on 
the card) and then the second transaction where the authorisation was recorded as 
accepted. The transaction was in a foreign currency for an amount equivalent to around 
£867. 
One Card Money has explained its process for transaction authorisation, and I can see from 
the transaction history that Mr As actual balance wasnt changed by the transaction on 25 
January 2023 but that his available balance reduced by the amount paid. This transaction 
was reversed on 10 February at which point Mr As available balance increased from around 
£375 to around £1,266. So, while I accept that Mr A was still hiring the car on 10 February 
and therefore wasnt expecting the deposit to be returned, this happened because the hire 
car company didnt complete the transaction within the required timeframe. 
Mr A has provided evidence of the hire companys internal records, and these show that the 
deposit refund was attempted on 24 February, but it was denied on one occasion and then 
the next two entries record an error. While I cannot say for certain what happened it 
appears that the deposit refund was attempted on 24 February but didnt happen. This is 
most likely because it was identified that the deposit amount had already been reversed.
Mr A has provided a copy of his statement from 3 February to 17 February 2023. I have 
cross referenced this with the transaction history provided by One Card Money. The 
information in Mr As statement shows his transaction amounts and the actual balance and 
these figures match the amounts recorded on the transaction history provided by One Card 
Money. Mr As statement doesnt show the return of the deposit on 10 February which I can 
understand has caused concern. But, as explained above, the returned funds are shown in 
Mr As available balance rather than his actual balance. This is because rather than the 
deposit being refunded at the end of the hire period, the initial payment was reversed due to 
the transaction not being completed. 
While I can understand why Mr A was concerned that he hadnt received the deposit refund, 
having looked at the evidence provided I am satisfied that the deposit money paid by Mr A 
was returned to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman