DRN-3742282
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the time it took Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) to provide 
advice about transferring her defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS). Mrs D 
says she suffered a financial loss  the difference between the guaranteed CETV (Cash 
Equivalent Transfer Value) initially offered and the transfer value she actually received. 
Shes also unhappy that, despite initially supporting the transfer, Grove later didnt 
recommend she transfer which not only caused her a financial loss but stress and worry too. 
What happened
Mrs Ds IFA (Independent Financial Adviser) contacted Grove on 1 December 2020 about a 
possible transfer. Grove sent Mrs D their Client Agreement and Welcome Pack on 9 
December 2020. The following day Grove wrote to Mrs D explaining that it offered a triage 
service and asking her to complete Groves Triage Confirmation Form to proceed with her 
enquiry. The letter said thered be two stages: Abridged Advice, which was free and Full 
Advice for which a fee would be charged, irrespective of whether a transfer proceeded. 
Information about defined benefits schemes was included for Mrs D to consider. 
Grove requested a CETV which was received on 25 January 2021. It was some £623,000 
and guaranteed until 14 April 2021. Grove says an update was sent to Mrs D on 25 January 
2021 confirming that calculations were being undertaken. Mrs D had a fact finding telephone 
call with Grove on 3 March 2021. Theres a dispute about what was discussed about tax free 
cash. Mrs D says she made it clear she wanted the full 25%. Grove says it was identified 
during the call that only £110,000 was needed to meet Mrs Ds needs and objectives. 
Grove sent an Abridged Advice report to Mrs D on 15 March 2021. Amongst other things, it 
recorded that Mrs D was looking to raise tax free cash of £110,000. It said there was 
insufficient information to provide a recommendation and Full Advice would be required to 
proceed. Mrs D confirmed on 17 March 2021 that she wanted to proceed to Full Advice. 
Grove requested illustrations from Mrs Ds IFA on 22 March 2021. I understand Grove didnt 
have access to Mrs Ds chosen investment fund. The IFA replied on 26 March 2021, 
querying the tax free cash amount and saying Mrs D wanted the full 25%. Grove replied that 
it had been identified that only £110,000 was needed and Grove was proceeding on that 
basis. There were some issues with the illustrations initially provided. The correct quotations 
were supplied to Grove on 6 April 2021. On 13 April 2021 Grove telephoned and emailed 
Mrs D, chasing up the Triage form which she hadnt returned. 
 
Grove provided a (verbal) recommendation to Mrs D on 14 April 2021 (the date the CETV 
expired). Groves written report followed a few weeks later. Mrs D saw it referred to 
£110,000 tax free cash. She contacted Grove and emailed on 13 May 2021 to confirm she 
wanted the full 25%. 
The OPS trustees recalculated the transfer value. Grove emailed Mrs D on 29 June 2021 to 
confirm the new (unguaranteed) transfer value was £580,977.64. On the same date Grove 
prepared a new recommendation report saying Mrs D shouldnt transfer. Grove says, 
following further discussions with Mrs D and her IFA, Grove found discrepancies in Mrs Ds 
tax free cash requirements, spending and objectives. Mrs D emailed Grove on 30 June 2021 
saying she was keen to proceed and she was happy to sign to say she wouldnt take any 
legal action against Grove if she went against their advice. 
Grove wrote to Mrs D on 1 July 2021 enclosing the new recommendation report. Grove said 
the recommendation that Mrs D transfer was based on the information shed provided. But 
since then thered been significant changes to her objectives and personal circumstances. 
Amongst other things Grove referred to Mrs D having spent her redundancy money (about 
(£8,000) as well as the proceeds of a small (£11,000) pension pot. Grove also said she had 
other financial objectives too. Grove said, based on the new information, accessing benefits 
direct from the OPS would be better and safer for Mrs D. So Grove was now recommending 
that Mrs D didnt transfer. In the enclosed report Grove set out what theyd originally 
understood about Mrs Ds circumstances and objectives and what shed since said about her 
requirements and spending. Grove recommended that Mrs D take early retirement from the 
OPS which would provide a lump sum of £67,253 plus a pension of £10,088 pa for life 
(which would increase).   
By then Mrs D had written to the OPS trustees. In her letter of 27 June 2021 she set out how 
the matter had progressed, her reasons for wanting to transfer and how shed be impacted if 
the transfer didnt go ahead. I understand that Mrs D later went ahead with a transfer (which 
Grove didnt facilitate). The transfer value actually paid was some £599,000.
Mrs D complained to Grove. Grove were prepared to waive their fees (around £9,000) but 
Grove didnt accept responsibility for the difference between the transfer value paid and the 
CETV quoted. Grove referred, amongst other things, to the Client Agreement, which 
explained the Guarantee Dates, and to the Guarantee Date expiry warning given in the 
Abridged Advice report. Grove said, after the recommendation conversation with Mrs D, it 
had come to light that her circumstances had changed significantly and she had previously 
undisclosed needs and objectives. That, coupled with her spending, had led Grove to 
recommend, for the reasons set out in the letter of 1 July 2021, that she shouldnt transfer. 
Grove added that Mrs D couldnt be accepted as an insistent client  that is one who wanted 
to proceed despite advice to the contrary. 
Mrs D remained unhappy and asked us to look into what had happened. On her complaint 
form she said Grove had said transferring would be in her best interests. But, despite telling 
her the transfer was proceeding, the deadline was missed. After that a recalculation was 
required and Grove then didnt recommend the transfer. She contacted the OPS trustees 
and asked to follow the insistent client procedure. It took Grove two months to send the letter 
saying she wanted to proceed against Groves wishes. She finally received the funds on 25 
August 2021. The transfer value was £599,000 which was £24,000 less than the original 
CETV. Groves response to her complaint focused on why they wouldnt recommend a 
transfer. But her complaint was about missing the original 14 April 2021 deadline and the 
£24,000 drop in value. She said Grove should pay that plus compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Shed missed payments due and had to borrow from family and friends in the 
interim to pay bills of approximately £3,500. 
Mrs D later clarified some points and also discussed what had happened with the 
investigator. Amongst other things, Mrs D said shed always made it clear she needed the 
full tax free cash and shed told Groves adviser she was taking her other small pension. She 
also supplied a copy of a form shed completed with her IFA and which was sent to Grove, 
saying she wanted to take the full tax free cash amount. She asked if a recording of the call 
on 3 March 2021 could be obtained. 
Our investigator asked Grove to supply that along with a copy of the fact find that was 
completed and any handwritten notes. But Grove said it was unable to trace the call. Grove said the form Mrs D had produced was preliminary information supplied by her IFA. Grove 
had then conducted its own fact finding. Grove said clients may sometimes want to take as 
much money out of their pension as possible but, during the fact finding exercise, the clients 
specific objectives are discussed. The fact find showed Mrs D had a defined objective to 
raise £110,000. She had no need to access the full tax free cash  her aim was to clear 
debts of £100,500 and have £9,500 in the bank. Any remaining tax free cash would be 
available to take when required. The basis of the fact finding call, including Mrs Ds 
objectives, was repeated in the Abridged Advice report which Mrs D didnt question. 
 
The investigator issued her view on 9 September 2022. She referred to the regulators focus 
on advice to move out of defined benefit schemes and the onus put on firms to show advice 
is suitable, given the valuable benefits generally being given up. She said there were also 
complex calculations that needed to be done and so these transfers could take longer. 
The investigator looked at if the transfer couldve been actioned before 14 April 2021. Shed 
asked Grove about why the first meeting with Mrs D wasnt until 3 March 2021  by then 
roughly five weeks had passed. The investigator thought the meeting couldve been 
arranged sooner. But she didnt think Grove had caused any avoidable or unnecessary 
delays after that. The transfer had still then taken roughly 12 weeks to finalise and so, even if 
thered been no delay at the outset, the original CETV expiry date would still have passed.
 
The investigator considered what had happened about the tax fee cash. Although she 
accepted Mrs D had requested the full amount from the outset, the Abridged Advice report 
clearly said Grove would be basing its report on tax free cash of £110,000. And Grove 
confirmed to Mrs Ds IFA that was the figure discussed in the meeting. It wasnt until 13 May 
2021 that Mrs D confirmed to Grove she wanted the full tax free cash amount. 
Although Mrs D had said Grove hadnt been clear that the CETV could change and more 
shouldve been done to manage her expectations, the investigator felt things had been 
explained in the Abridged Advice report and the terms of business (Client Agreement). The 
investigator recognised how stressful the matter had been for Mrs D. But Grove had waived 
their advice fees of roughly £9,000. Grove werent under any obligation to do this as their 
terms were clear that, even if their advice is ultimately not to transfer, the client is still 
responsible for the fee. The investigator said the offer to waive the fee was fair. 
Mrs D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a 
number of points she wanted to be considered. In summary:
She queried why Grove had taken on any new business if they were already finding it 
difficult to manage their existing workload. Her IFA had first approached Grove in 
October 2020. Grove had said they were inundated with work and would only be 
accepting new business on 1 December 2020 during a two hour window between 
9am and 11am. Mrs Ds IFA submitted her transfer request at 9am on that date. 
Groves adviser confirmed it would take five to eight weeks to do the paperwork and 
was confident the deadline would be met by Mrs Ds 55th birthday in March 2021.
By the time Grove undertook the initial fact find on 3 March 2021, 40% of the 12 
week deadline had already passed. From the outset shed always made it clear she 
wanted to take the full 25% tax free cash. Grove had said no recording of the call on 
3 March 2021 was available, despite the process being highly regulated. That call 
and others wouldve confirmed shed asked for the full 25% and set out how the 
funds would be used. She was unhappy shed had to provide evidence to show thats 
what shed requested. She said Grove had made an error  the report hadnt been 
completed by the same person whod made the call on 3 March 2021 and the wrong 
amount had been quoted by the adviser whod prepared the report. Thered been no 
continuity and shed never been given the name of the person who owned her case. On 22 April 2021 Grove had verbally confirmed they were happy for the transfer to 
proceed and the subsequent report supported this. No mention was made of them 
only agreeing to the £110,000 tax free cash as opposed to the full 25%. But by then 
the 14 April 2021 deadline had already been missed. She shouldve been told that 
and that a recalculation would be required.
On 17 May 2021, when she received the report recommending the transfer, she saw 
the amount of tax free was incorrect. She immediately contacted Grove and they 
advised her to send an email by 2pm the same afternoon to confirm she wanted the 
full 25% which she did. Again there was no mention of the deadline already having 
been missed or that a new advice report would be required. No new report was 
undertaken and Grove continued to submit the paperwork to the OPS, in the hope 
that the original CETV would be honoured. Groves recommendation changed as the 
transfer value dropped by some £42,000. 
On 4 June 2021 Grove sent an email to advise that payment should be made within 
20 days and they were just awaiting forms from the new provider. So she had no 
reason to doubt that the transfer was going ahead as planned. It wasnt until 22 June 
that she got notification from Grove that the deadline had been missed and the CETV 
had to be recalculated and had dropped by £42,000. Grove then advised they didnt 
recommend the transfer be made as her needs and objectives had changed.
Groves final response letter said her complaint is about delays by Grove. Not to do 
with the change in the recommendation. The letter stated that the Client Agreement 
gives an explanation of the guarantee dates. But that was never given verbally and, 
after her IFAs conversation with Grove in 4 March 2021 that the deadline was 
looming, Grove said the case would be prioritised. She had no reason to doubt that 
would happen and that the deadline wouldnt be met. 
Grove had referred to their analysis and calculations having taken longer than 
expected. Mrs D said she hadnt been told why that was or seen evidence in support. 
Grove was blaming the delay due to the tax free amount being changed but that 
hadnt caused any concerns or additional work at the time and was not quoted in the 
final response letter as being the cause of the delay. Shed had apologies from Grove 
that one of the main reasons was because of unprecedented levels of business and 
lack of resource to manage this and it was purely luck if a case got processed in 
time.
She was at a loss at to what else she couldve done to ensure the transfer went 
ahead before the deadline. Although she was grateful that Grove did agree to waive 
their fees, shed incurred a loss approximately £24,000 so Grove should reimburse 
her the difference of approximately £13,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I may not have mentioned each and every exchange or document, Ive set out 
above what happened in some detail as I think its important to consider the full picture, even 
though I know Mrs Ds complaint is that the original CETV deadline was missed because of 
avoidable delays on Groves part and which meant the actual transfer value paid was some 
£24,000 less. So Ive considered first the period from 1 December 2020 when Grove was 
instructed and 14 April 2021 (when the CETV guarantee period expired).  
Grove sent Mrs D their Client Agreement and Welcome Pack on 9 December 2020 and the 
Triage form and supporting documentation the following day. Grove also requested a CETV from the OPS which was received on 25 January 2021. But the fact finding call with Mrs D 
didnt take place until 3 March 2021. That was some two months after Grove had been 
instructed. Even if Groves practice was to await receipt of the CETV before starting to 
consider the case in any detail, it was still over five weeks after Grove had received the 
original CETV. Id agree with Mrs D that, by then, valuable time had already been lost. 
Theres a dispute about what was said during the fact finding telephone call on 3 March 
2021 about how much tax free cash Mrs D wanted. I find it somewhat surprising that Grove 
has been unable to trace the call and provide a recording of it. But, although Mrs D has said 
she made it clear she wanted the full 25% (and the form she completed with the IFA which 
was supplied to Grove supports that) it seems there was some confusion and Grove 
understood that a lower sum of £110,000 would suffice. And the Abridged Advice report 
dated 8 March 2021 did clearly set out, under Your Objectives that Mrs D was looking to 
raise £110,000 to enable her to be mortgage free and pay off her remaining debts, leaving a 
balance of £9,500 as savings and for holidays. 
Grove produced that Abridged Advice report promptly  less than a week after the fact 
finding telephone discussion. I dont think that report could be taken as indicating that Grove 
would recommend a transfer. It clearly set out that Grove was only allowed to come to one of 
two possible conclusions  that Mrs D should remain in the OPS so a transfer was unlikely to 
be suitable  or that there was insufficient information. That was the outcome in Mrs Ds 
case which meant that, without a full analysis of her pension benefits, Grove couldnt say 
whether a transfer was likely to be suitable. If Mrs D decided to proceed to full advice a 
definitive recommendation would be provided. 
Mrs D told Grove on 17 March 2021 that she wanted to proceed to full advice. By then there 
was less than a month remaining on the original CETV. Grove asked Mrs Ds IFA for 
illustrations that Grove needed to undertake the calculations required  Grove didnt have 
access to Mrs Ds chosen fund. Again I dont see that Grove delayed in seeking that 
information - illustrations were requested from Mrs Ds IFA on 22 March 2021, three working 
days after Mrs D had said she wanted full advice. The IFA replied 26 March 2021, querying 
the tax free cash amount and saying Mrs D wanted the full 25%. Grove maintained it had 
been identified that only £110,000 was needed to meet Mrs Ds objectives (as confirmed in 
the Abridged Advice report) and Grove was proceeding on that basis. Grove got the correct 
quotations on 6 April 2021. There was only about a week left before the CETV expired. 
Grove says that left insufficient time for Grove to do what it needed to  finish the 
calculations, provide advice, issue the report and allow Mrs D time to consider it and 
complete the necessary forms  in order to be able to meet the CETV deadline of 14 April 
2021.  Theres also the issue of the Triage form which Grove had to chase up on 13 April 
2021. But I understand Grove did provide a verbal recommendation on 14 April 2021 that 
Mrs D transfer with its written report provided a few weeks later. By then there was no 
urgency as the CETV deadline had passed.
  
All in all I dont think there was any delay on Groves part once the fact finding call had been 
undertaken. The first step was providing Abridged Advice which is a service an adviser can 
offer to give an indication of whether a transfer might be considered suitable. It aims to 
identify or filter out clients where a transfer is unlikely to be suitable. A client who is 
interested in transferring doesnt have to commit to the costs of full advice - Grove has 
pointed out that its permitted to offer Abridged Advice for free. But a recommendation to 
transfer can only result after going through the full advice process for which a charge is 
made, although, in Mrs Ds case, Grove has waived it. In looking at if there were any delays, 
I dont think its reasonable to expect Grove to action every step the same day, just within a 
reasonable period although bearing in mind the deadline that applies. I think Grove did 
progress Mrs Ds case appropriately and without unnecessary or avoidable delays.But, as Ive said, there was a delay in arranging the fact finding call. I can see Mrs Ds 
argument that, but for that initial delay and had the fact finding call taken place, say, within a 
week or so of receipt of the CETV, the same position wouldve been reached earlier. And so 
Groves advice (that Mrs D transfer) wouldve been given a few weeks earlier, leaving 
sufficient time (assuming things had been progressed urgently given the deadline) for Mrs D 
to consider it, confirm she wanted to go ahead and sign the discharge papers for the OPS 
and secure the CETV of £623,000. So Mrs D might say that whatever happened 
subsequently isnt relevant and but, for the initial delay, her transfer wouldve gone ahead. 
But I have to reach a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. Here I dont think it would be fair to say that Grove should be 
responsible for the difference between that amount and the lower transfer value actually paid 
when Mrs D decided to go ahead and against Groves later advice not to transfer. From what 
Ive seen Mrs Ds circumstances and objectives did change or werent as Grove had 
understood. So it was right for Grove to reconsider whether, in the light of new information, it 
could still recommend that Mrs D transfer. For the reasons Grove has explained, transferring 
was no longer considered suitable, hence Grove recommended that Mrs D take early 
retirement from the OPS instead.  
In reaching my conclusions Ive considered the points made by Mrs D in response to the 
investigators view. But I dont think they change anything. Im not going to comment on 
some of the issues raised and which Ive already considered, such as the dispute about the 
amount of the tax free cash Mrs D was seeking. 
I note what Mrs D has said about Groves workloads, including what she says Grove told her 
and her IFA about being inundated. But it seems Grove were taking steps to manage that, 
including restricting new business. And, regardless of Groves overall position, I think whats 
important is what actually happened in Mrs Ds particular case and how her transfer was 
progressed, which is what Ive looked at.  
Grove may have indicated at the outset to Mrs Ds IFA that it should be possible to do 
everything necessary by the time Mrs D turned 55 in March 2021 but no guarantee to that 
effect was given. Groves welcome letter dated 9 December 2020 said one of its advisers 
would aim to provide a recommendation within a couple of months (of receiving information 
from the OPS) but that couldnt be guaranteed. The Client Agreement also referred to the 
Guarantee Date and the risk that it might be missed. I think Mrs D wouldve been aware that 
Grove wasnt promising shed be able to meet the CETV guarantee date. 
Mrs D has pointed out that, by the time the fact finding call took place on 3 March 2021 40% 
of the twelve week guarantee period had passed. I agree and Ive found that there was a 
delay on Groves part in carrying out that call. But despite that, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think it would be fair to say that Grove are responsible for the reduction in 
the transfer value. 
I note what Mrs D has said about a lack of continuity and ownership as to who was dealing 
with her case. But I dont think its uncommon for fact finding to be carried out by one 
member of staff and the recommendation report prepared by another.  
Mrs D says Grove confirmed verbally on 22 April 2021 that they were happy for the transfer 
to proceed. I think Grove says it did that on 14 April 2021. But, either way, it was by then too 
late to meet the CETV deadline. Mrs D says she wasnt told the deadline had passed and 
that it would be necessary for the transfer value to be recalculated. But that was dealt with in 
the Client Agreement  it said if the Guarantee Date was missed, the figures would need to 
be recalculated. Sometimes that can result in a higher transfer value. And sometimes the 
OPS trustees will be prepared to honour the original CETV. Grove knew Mrs D was keen to transfer and so I think Grove continued on the basis that the transfer might still go ahead 
notwithstanding that the CETV deadline had been missed. But unfortunately a new transfer 
value, some £42,000 less than previously, was quoted. And that, coupled with Groves 
further consideration of Mrs Ds circumstances and objectives led to Grove reversing its 
recommendation. 
As Ive said I think Grove did manage Mrs Ds expectations and didnt promise advice could 
be given in time to secure the CETV. I note what Mrs D says about her IFA having been told 
(on 4 March 2021) that the case would be prioritised. As Ive said I dont think there were any 
avoidable delays after the fact finding call the previous day. Mrs Ds pointed to what Grove 
has said about the analysis and calculations having taken longer to complete than expected. 
I dont think Grove needs to supply evidence to support that  as the investigator pointed out 
the calculations that are undertaken are complex. How long they take will vary from case to 
case depending on what is involved and, amongst other things, the quality of the information 
provided by third parties. Mrs D may have been told that Groves workload played a part. 
But, as Ive said, Ive looked at how Mrs Ds case was progressed and found that Grove 
wasnt responsible for any delay apart from at the outset.
I understand that the matter has caused Mrs D stress, uncertainty and worry at a time when 
she had financial issues. But for the reasons Ive explained I dont agree Grove is 
responsible for the difference between the transfer value Mrs D ultimately secured (without 
Groves further assistance) and the CETV originally quoted in January 2021. I think Groves 
offer to waive its fees is fair and reasonable. So Im not going to say that Grove needs to do 
anymore. 
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman