DRN-3308420
The complaint
Mrs R complains about how shes was treated by Bank of Scotland plc when applying to 
extend her mortgage term.
Mrs R is represented by a family member, Mr P.
What happened
Mrs R had a mortgage which was in joint names with her husband. Sadly, her husband 
passed away a number of years ago. The mortgage was due to expire in February 2021. 
£40,000 of the mortgage was arranged on an interest only basis and remained outstanding. 
Mrs R contacted BoS on 26 August 2020 to discuss options for repaying the remaining 
£40,000. 
Mrs R informed BoS that her husband had taken a loan and she wasnt sure if her name was 
on it. BoS advised her to get credit reports to find out if this was a loan she was liable for. At 
this time, Mrs R also advised BoS that her employer had gone into liquidation. Mr P helped 
Mrs R get copies of her credit report from the two credit reference agencies BoS advised her 
to obtain the reports from. 
Mr P contacted BoS on 30 September 220 to confirm they had the reports. He said he was 
told that BoS could likely extend the mortgage for a six or seven year term. However, it was 
noted that Mrs Rs late husband was still on the mortgage and his name would need to be 
removed. This was completed and Mr P contacted BoS again on 5 November 2020. He 
informed BoS that Mrs R had now been placed on furlough due to the covid-19 pandemic. 
BoS informed Mr P that BoS wouldnt be able to offer a term extension to Mrs R whilst she 
was furloughed from her job. 
Mr P complained to BoS and said that it wasnt treating Mrs R fairly as a vulnerable 
customer. BoS accepted that it didnt tell Mrs R that her husband would need to be removed 
from the mortgage when she first called. It offered £150 compensation for this. BoS didnt 
agree to provided Mrs R a dedicated case manager as Mr P had requested and it confirmed 
its records showed it was still in the process of reviewing what it could do with 
Mrs Rs mortgage term extension.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P referred the complaint to us and one of our Investigators 
looked into it. Since the complaint was referred to our service, Mr P continued to speak with 
BoS and BoS agreed, in principle, to extend the mortgage once Mrs R returned to work and 
was no longer furloughed. However, Mrs R has decided not to return to work. 
Our Investigator agreed that the application couldve gone more smoothly, but he didnt think 
BoS needed to appoint an individual case handler. He was satisfied that BoS was entitled to 
consider the fact that Mrs R was furloughed from her job when considering whether she 
could afford a term extension.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman. The 
case was passed to me and I spoke at length with Mr P to explain why I agreed with our 
investigator. Mr P still doesnt agree and has asked me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I have noted the detail in which Mr P has submitted this complaint on behalf of Mrs R. 
And hes made many points about both this specific case and BoS wider practices which 
affect customers other than Mrs R. Ive thought about everything hes said, but I wont be 
responding in the detail hes submitted the complaint. And I may not address each and every 
point hes raised. Instead, Ill be focussing on the crux of Mrs Rs complaint. I hope Mr P 
realises I mean no disrespect by this, it simply reflects the nature of this service as an 
informal alterative to a court. 
I also wont be addressing the wider issues of BoS business practices which Mr P has 
raised or Mr Ps question of whether or not FCA rules have been followed. This would be a 
matter for the industry regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority. That doesnt fall within the 
remit of this service. We look into individual complaints and the impact theyve had on 
individual consumers.  
There are two main points to Mrs Rs complaint, Ill address them separately for ease.
Delays in the application to extend Mrs Rs mortgage
Mrs Rs mortgage was due to expire in early 2021. So, she got in touch with BoS in 
August 2020 to discuss what she could do given that there was an outstanding balance 
which wouldnt be repaid. BoS told Mrs R that she needed to get further information 
regarding a loan she may or may not have outstanding. This is information BoS would need 
and is entitled to ask for. And it was sensible for BoS to tell Mrs R the easiest way to find this 
out was by requesting her credit file. Im aware that Mrs R had difficulty obtaining this, but 
this wasnt the fault of BoS.
Once Mrs R did obtain this, BoS noticed that Mrs Rs late husband was still on the mortgage 
and would need to be removed. I agree that BoS shouldve noticed this sooner and told 
Mrs R about this when she first made contact. BoS accepts it made a mistake her and has 
offered £150 compensation. Overall, I agree that there have been some delays caused 
because of this. But Im satisfied BoS offer to put matters right is fair, and Im not going to 
ask it to do anything further in this regard. 
BoS not accepting Mrs Rs furloughed income when considering the mortgage extension 
application
When Mrs R first spoke with BoS, it was accepting furloughed income when assessing 
application for borrowing. However, when Mr P got in touch with BoS following Mrs R 
obtaining her credit reports, its policy had changed. The policy was changed on 22 
September and Mr P got in touch with BoS on 30 September.
Lending criteria is generally something a lender is entitled to set using its own commercial 
judgement, and not something this Service would usually interfere with. Because of the 
uncertainty created by the pandemic, BoS took the decision to no longer accept income 
when it was being provided by the governments furlough scheme. This is understandable 
given that no one knew how long the pandemic may last, nor how long government support 
such as furlough may continue. Im satisfied this was a decision BoS was entitled to make. It 
couldnt have told Mrs R about this sooner as its policy changed after Mrs P had originally got in touch.
BoS has confirmed it wouldve been willing to consider Mrs Rs application once she 
returned to work, however Mrs R chose not to return to work. I understand this was due in 
part to health issues, and I am sorry to hear this. However, this does now mean Mrs R is in a 
situation where the mortgage extension is unlikely to be affordable to her in the longer term.
Ive thought about Mr Ps point that the mortgage extension shouldve been agreed prior to 
BoS deciding not to accept furloughed income, but I dont agree. It took some time for Mrs R 
to obtain the credit reports BoS requested. It was entitled to request these, and once Mrs R 
provided them BoS policy had already changed. Whilst it had discussed the options that 
mayve been available to Mrs R previously, it hadnt made any kind of formal offer, and 
wasnt required to honour what had been provisionally discussed.  
Lenders are required to complete affordability assessments when considering any new type 
of borrowing, which an extension of a mortgage is. I accept that Mrs R now finds herself in a 
difficult position given that she is no longer working, and her income is greatly reduced. BoS 
has allowed Mrs R to continue to make interest only payments whilst the complaint has been 
with us. So, Im satisfied BoS has treated Mrs R fairly up to this stage.
As Ive already explained to Mr P, BoS is still willing to consider whether it can help Mrs R. 
But they will need to get in touch with BoS to discuss what options there may or may not be. 
Its possible that, given Mrs Rs is no longer working and doesnt intend to return to work, 
BoS may not be able to offer anything further. If this is the case, then Id advise Mrs R seeks 
independent financial advice as there may be other options, such as a retirement interest 
only mortgage with another lender, which may be suitable for her. But we cant provider her 
with advice on that. If BoS isnt able to offer any further assistance to Mrs R, then I would 
expect it to give her some time to make alternative arrangements and would remind it of its 
obligations to treat her fairly and consider her vulnerability. 
Ive thought about Mr Ps request that BoS appoint Mrs R with a specific contact to deal with 
this matter. However, it seems that Mr P is the one that deals with all of these matters on 
behalf of Mrs R. Whilst I recognise Mrs Rs vulnerabilities, given that she isnt the one in 
contact with BoS, I dont think BoS is required to appoint a specific case handler for her.
Overall, I have a lot of sympathy for the situation Mrs R finds herself in. However, Im 
satisfied that the £150 compensation BoS has offered is fair in the circumstances. And that 
BoS was entitled not to consider her income when she was furloughed. 
My final decision
Whilst I recognise Mrs R and Mr P feel very strongly about this matter, and will be very upset 
with my decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman