DRN-3767440
The complaint
Mr T and Miss D are unhappy QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has declined a storm damage claim 
made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2021 a storm caused damage to Mr T and Miss Ds garden boundary wall, so 
they made a claim to QIC, their home insurance provider.
QIC inspected the wall and ultimately declined the claim. Whilst QIC accepted there were 
storm conditions at the time the wall was damaged, they didnt think the storm was the 
dominant cause of the damage. But QIC recognised there was a delay in reaching their final 
claim decision and offered £100 compensation.
Mr T and Miss D were unhappy with QICs position, so they approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She recognised 
there were storm conditions, but based on the report and images provided, she thought the 
dominant cause was gradual deterioration, which was highlighted by the weather, which is 
excluded under the policy.
The investigator recognised it took some time for QIC to reach their final claim decision, but 
also noted they had offered £100 compensation for this. She thought this was fair, so didnt 
recommend anything further.
Mr T and Miss D didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
QIC accept there were storm conditions and they met the definition of a storm as defined in 
Mr T and Miss Ds policy. Thats not in dispute, so I dont need to make a decision about 
whether a storm occurred on the date of damage. And a garden boundary wall could be 
damaged by a storm, so that potentially satisfies question two above.
But QIC has declined the claim on the basis of their surveyors conclusions:
The part retaining boundary wall, approx. 5.0 x 2.0 metres, which supported the 
neighbouring propertys elevated garden, displayed obvious signs of damage, evident by the 
partial collapse to the upper section of the concrete block and lightweight screen blocks. The 
immediately adjacent section of the wall also displayed instability, which was attributed to the 
presence of a young tree which imposed pressure on the blockwork
And:
The images show the wall has aged and deteriorated. The mortar holding the bricks in place 
has deteriorated making the wall weak. The wall was further weakened by the presence of a 
young tree which is imposing on the wall.
Therefore, QIC concluded that the storm wasnt the main or dominant cause of the damage, 
instead, they say the dominant cause was wear and tear and gradual damage, which has 
been highlighted by the storm weather at the time.
Mr T and Miss Ds policy excludes:
Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
-wear and tear;
-fall in value over time;
-gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not);
-exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions;
-normal settlement;
-warping or shrinkage;
-rusting or corrosion;
-wet or dry rot (regardless of the cause);
-fungus, mildew or mould;
-infestation (for example by vermin); and
-costs that arise from using or maintaining your buildings and contents normally.
And the storm policy cover specifically excludes:
anything that happens gradually.
Ive considered the conclusions reached by QIC (which Ive outlined above), and the images 
provided by both parties. The images show what appears to be general historic deterioration 
to the wall. The images also show a small tree putting pressure on the adjacent part of the 
wall, and QIC has concluded this has further weakened it over time. Having taken into 
account all the information, Im persuaded by the conclusions reached by QIC and that the 
images provided by both parties support those conclusions.
Mr T and Miss D have also advised they dont have any reports which counter the 
conclusions reached by QIC. In the absence of any other expert reports and having 
considered all the information provided by both parties, I dont think QIC has acted unfairly 
by declining the claim based on the above exclusions.
I also note it took some time for QIC to reach their final claim decision and to relay that to 
Mr T and Miss D, but QIC also offered £100 compensation for this. I think the compensation 
offered for the delay is reasonable, so Im not going to direct QIC to increase this.My final decision
QIC Europe Ltd has already made an offer to pay £100 compensation to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that QIC Europe Ltd should pay the £100 compensation already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Miss D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman