DRN-3732378
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim under his motor insurance 
policy on a 70/30 split liability basis.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr W was unfortunately involved in a car accident. A collision occurred as    
Mr W turned into a gated side road while a third party was trying to overtake him. Before the 
accident happened, Mr Ws car was briefly stationary as he needed to wait for a family 
member to open the gate, and drive through it first. Mr W said he wasnt at fault for the 
collision as the third party caused it by driving dangerously. However, the third partys 
insurer also disputed liability. They said Mr Ws car was parked on the main road and he 
didnt indicate his intention to move before starting the manoeuvre.
After investigating the claim, UKI settled the matter on a 70/30 split liability basis in Mr Ws 
favour. They reached this conclusion as they said the third party should have taken more 
care while overtaking, but Mr W also needed to take some responsibility. They said based 
on the camera footage and the circumstances surrounding the accident, Mr W may have 
been able to prevent the collision if hed checked his mirrors immediately before starting the 
manoeuvre. In reaching this settlement outcome, they made Mr W aware of relevant case 
law they had considered involving accidents of a similar nature.
Mr W didnt think this was fair, so he complained to our service. Our investigator reviewed all 
the evidence including the camera footage. Following which, he said UKI had acted 
reasonably by settling the claim in the way that they did.
Mr W disagreed and said it wasnt fair a fault claim had been recorded against his policy. He 
strongly denied not checking his mirrors or failing to indicate before starting the manoeuvre.  
He said the only reason the accident happened was because the third party driver was 
speeding and driving dangerously. He therefore requested a final decision. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isn't my place to decide who is liable for the accident at the heart of this complaint, that 
would be a matter for a court of law. What I'm deciding is whether UKI have applied the 
terms and conditions of the policy reasonably and whether they have dealt with the claim 
fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between UKI and Mr W - the policy's terms and 
conditions. Under the terms of the policy, UKI can independently decide whether to defend a 
claim or settle it. This might mean UKI makes a decision that Mr W disagrees with, as has 
happened here. I dont find this unusual or surprising as most motor insurance policies allow 
insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably 
investigate a claim and consider the evidence available before making their decision on 
liability.
I appreciate Mr W is likely to strongly disagree with me. However, after carefully reviewing all 
the evidence, I think UKI acted fairly by settling the claim on a split liability basis. I say this as 
based on the camera footage, Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for them to conclude      
Mr W may have seen the car and avoided the collision, if hed made a final check of his 
mirrors. I appreciate Mr Ws comment that the third party was speeding, but this cant be 
determined from the footage and Ive not seen any evidence that a formal reading of the 
speed was taken at the time. It also isnt clear whether Mr W indicated his intention to turn, 
before starting the manoeuvre. So, I dont think UKI concluded unreasonably that based on 
these factors, it was appropriate to settle the claim instead of pursuing the matter further 
through the courts.
I can also see from the claim notes, that UKI explained to Mr W that they werent prepared to 
risk incurring further costs, when a more favourable outcome through the courts was 
unlikely. They also shared details of the case law they'd considered to support their decision 
and told Mr W where he could check it. So, I think they did everything they reasonably could 
to help him understand their decision. 
As UKI settled the claim based on all the available evidence and having considered relevant 
case law, Im satisfied they didnt do anything wrong. I appreciate Mr W is disappointed he 
now has a fault claim recorded against his policy and this may impact his future premiums. 
However, as UKI didnt recover all their costs, I wouldnt expect them to record the claim any 
differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman