DRN-3043511
The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account and held on to his funds. Mr P would 
like an explanation and his money back.
What happened
Mr P had an account with Revolut. Which he signed up for in November 2018. He used the 
account for travelling.
On 22 March 2019 Revolut carried out a review of Mr Ps account and as a result his 
account was blocked without notice. Mr P says he had about £350 in his account and hasnt 
had access to the money in the account since then. 
Mr P complained to Revolut.
Revolut said that Mr Ps account was under review and that they were entitled to carry out 
reviews of accounts. They also said they couldnt disclose any details of the reasons for the 
review.
On 16 August 2019 following their review Revolut closed Mr Ps account and returned the 
funds in the account to source. 
Mr P was unhappy with their response, so he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint she said that Revolut hadnt done 
anything wrong when they reviewed Mr Ps account so she wouldnt be asking them to pay 
compensation. She thought Revolut was able to return funds to source and they had 
refunded Mr P any account fees that had been charged whilst the account was being 
reviewed. She thought Revolut had acted fairly.
Mr P was unhappy with the view he said he didnt think Revolut were entitled to return his 
funds to source. He also wanted to know the reasons why Revolut reviewed his account. He 
also said he never received any notice from Revolut that his account would close. Mr P 
provided the investigator with evidence of his bitcoin transactions from his Revolut account. 
Our investigator issues a second view she said she thought Revolut had delayed in 
reviewing Mr Ps account, but she didnt think this had an impact on Mr P because the 
outcome of the review would have been the same.
She considered if Revolut had done anything wrong when they returned the funds to source 
and she thought that as this was a process that Revolut could follow they had done nothing 
wrong when it returned the funds to source following the closure of the account.
Mr P has calculated his losses to be £8,150. These include time lost £1,200 trouble and 
upset £2,000 and £4,950 for being unable to use facilities of the card during a holiday 
Mr P said he was about to invest in bitcoin and as a result of his account being blocked, he 
was unable to do so. He estimates his loss to be in the region of £350.
Mr P says he lost the opportunity to use the card and the services that it offers, and he was 
about to go on holiday to the USA. He didnt receive any answers about the block on his 
account and he wasted about three hours a day for 12 days trying to solve the problem.
Mr P would like his account reinstated and compensation. Following on from the two views 
Mr P said he wanted to know if Revolut were entitled to return funds to source as he didnt 
think the terms and conditions allowed them to do so.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure 
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ps account. 
I then turn to Revoluts decision to close Mr Ps account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed. 
Under the terms of the account Mr P held, Revolut are entitled to end the relationship. I can 
see that they notified Mr P of their decision, so I cant say Revolut have done anything 
wrong.
Mr P has said he wants to know why his account was blocked and closed. I appreciate that 
Mr P mayve expected to be given the reasons for the block and closure, Revolut isnt 
required to give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Revolut has 
done anything wrong by not giving Mr P this information  as much as hed like to know.
 
Access to funds
 
Before Revolut releases funds held in a customers account, its entitled to carry out checks 
to ensure its complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. And it will follow its internal 
procedures before they release funds. 
Mr P has said he cant see anything in the terms and conditions of the account that allow 
Revolut to return the funds to source.
I appreciate that Mr P is concerned about this and he thinks that Revolt are in breach of 
contract because the terms dont mention returning funds to source. However, Revolut as a 
regulated business has extensive obligations placed on it by UK legislation. Financial institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the 
origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships. These obligations override all other obligations. 
I have looked at the evidence provided by Revolut and I can see why they had concerns 
about the source of the funds. Our service has asked Mr P to show he had a legitimate claim 
to the funds. Although he has provided some evidence, Im not satisfied that the information 
he has provided shows his entitlement to the funds. It follows I am satisfied Revolut were 
complying with their obligations when they returned funds to source.
 
Mr P has outlined his losses and has requested compensation. I appreciate that having his 
account blocked and then closed has been stressful for Mr P however, as I dont think that 
Revolut have done anything wrong it follows I will not be asking them to pay compensation 
to Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman