DRN-1708837
The complaint
Ms I has complained Nationwide Building Society didnt assist her properly when disputing 
transactions.
What happened
Ms I was looking to buy a studio property for investment purposes overseas. She made a 
number of payments  one in January and three more in March 2019  as deposits. She 
then disagreed with the property company about what was agreed when she was initially 
looking to buy and what was contained in the written contract.
Ms I disputed the transactions which shed made using her Nationwide credit card. 
Nationwide confirmed as the original purchase price exceeded £30,000 Ms I had no rights 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She also disputed these transactions 
under the chargeback rules. But Nationwide confirmed it was now too late for them to 
dispute these.
Ms I brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator confirmed Nationwide was correct about Ms Is rights under section 75. He 
also reviewed the phone conversations Ms I had with Nationwide. He didnt believe theyd 
misled her into thinking there were no timescales for her to dispute the initial payments shed 
made.
Ms I remained unhappy with this outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Ms I used her 
Nationwide credit card to pay in part for the costs of an investment property. 
However one key requirement to allow consideration of a section 75 claim is that the price of 
the goods or services being purchased must exceed £100 but no more than £30,000. Ms Is 
property purchase was about £200,000 and therefore wouldnt qualify under section 75.
There are chargeback rules run by the international card schemes which allow customers to 
dispute transactions for a number of reasons. However there are timescales  in the case of 
Nationwide-issued credit cards disputes must be raised within 120 days of the original 
transactions.
Ms I has said she was advised by Nationwide to try and resolve the dispute with her supplier 
as this was the best way to resolve this. This wasnt incorrect advice.
What shes upset about is that she was never told about the timescales involved. She thinks 
understandably that if shed known there was a limited timescale then shed have asked 
Nationwide to use chargeback rules earlier than she did. The phone calls Ms I had with 
Nationwide during this period dont show  at any time  that she was misadvised.  
I absolutely appreciate why Ms I is so concerned at what happened. However I note that by 
this stage Ms I had not been able to resolve her dispute with the property company involved. 
Shed also continued to make payments even after initially raising a dispute. I think its more 
than likely that even if shed raised a complaint within the timescale, the chargeback may 
well have been defended successfully. Use of the chargeback rules doesnt guarantee 
customers a successful resolution to their dispute.
Overall I dont believe Nationwide did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Is complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman