DRN-2684364
The complaint
Bs complaint, in summary, is that HSBC UK Bank Plc took too long to recover the funds that 
were removed from their account by fraudsters, and even now there is a shortfall. B further 
says that whilst trying to recover the sums, HSBC also created unnecessary confusion 
resulting in significant inconvenience to B.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat them at 
length here. 
Briefly, in June 2019 several fraudulent transactions took place on Bs business account with 
HSBC. This happened within a very short time on the same day. Of those, just one payment 
for £2,220 was made to the fraudsters account. The remaining payments were made by the 
fraudster to known (genuine) beneficiaries of B. 
B reported the fraud immediately to the bank. By the time HSBC could contact the 
fraudsters recipient bank, the amount of £2,220 had already been removed. So that sum 
couldnt be recovered.
In relation to other transactions, there was some confusion as to how they should be 
recovered and as the matter wasnt being fully resolved, B complained to us.
Most of the moneys have since been recovered and HSBC offered to pay B a sum of £3,500 
on the basis that it was the only remaining transaction yet to be recovered. 
B accepted the offer but said that it wasnt enough to resolve its complaint. It said that it 
expected HSBC to have made an offer for the interest lost due to the fraudulent transactions. 
It further said that Bs directors spent numerous hours trying to get the monies back into Bs 
account. So HSBC should compensate for the length of time this whole matter took and the 
inconvenience it caused. It also pointed out that the sum of £2,220 couldnt be recovered.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. In summary I said:
I can see from the submissions that HSBC has accepted that the funds were removed 
from Bs account without their knowledge or authorisation. It has also said that it found 
little evidence to suggest that B acted with gross negligence. Given HSBCs acceptance 
of what had happened, I dont think there is any need for me to go into detailed findings 
about this except to say that I agree with what it has said. It seems clear that the 
payments were not authorised. And I also agree that there is little evidence to suggest 
that B acted in gross negligence. 
So, the starting position is that HSBC should refund the unauthorised payments. From 
what I could see all but the £2,200 payment has been accounted for. So, HSBC should 
refund this £2,220 to B with interest. 
As regards Bs claim in relation to the lost interest on other payments, I can see that 
most of the payments were returned within a month or so of the payment date. As such 
any lost interest would be minimal. Nevertheless, I consider that HSBC should pay B 
some interest in recognition of not refunding the unauthorised payments immediately. I 
consider that an overall payment of £500 would be fair in this regard.
HSBC initially indicated that it would try and recover the payments. But later it told B that 
they should do that themselves as the payments were made to their known beneficiaries. 
That caused unnecessary work to B as it had to spend some time contacting its 
customers / beneficiaries, explain the position and request refunds. However, it appears 
that HSBC had also gone ahead and requested refunds from most of the recipients 
banks. That created some confusion resulting in more communications between Bs 
beneficiaries, B and HSBC. There was also a double recovery which had to be rectified.
B says that its directors spent a large amount of their time on this matter. I acknowledge 
that this matter had caused significant inconvenience to B. However, we dont usually 
make awards based precisely on units of time spent by the companys staff but instead 
we look at the overall impact the banks mistake had on the company. Further, I have 
also taken into account the somewhat unusual nature of the fraud in this case  in the 
sense that all the payments except one were made to Bs known beneficiaries. I can see 
that caused some confusion. And it is also the case that most of the payments were 
fortunately credited back quickly. 
So, taking everything into account, I consider that HSBC should pay B £300 for the 
inconvenience this matter has caused. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. HSBC told us that it has since credited Bs 
account with the amount of compensation I had proposed in my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I remain of the view 
that the complaint should be upheld. Thus HSBC should refund the unauthorised payment to 
B together with interest. It should also compensate B for the loss of interest in relation to 
other payments and for the inconvenience this matter has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and in full and final settlement of it, 
HSBC should  if it has not already done so - pay B: 
£2,220 together with simple interest at 8% p.a. Interest is payable from the date of the 
fraudulent transaction to the date of settlement
£800 for the loss of interest and for inconvenience caused.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman