DRN-4440657
The complaint
Mr C complains about charges applied by HSBC UK Bank Plc when making international 
transfers. 
What happened
Mr C has explained that since August 2019 hes made regular transfers to his partner who 
lives abroad. Mr Cs explained that when making the first transfer he was told by branch staff 
there would be a fee of £4. But over the years, Mr C has been charged additional fees by the 
intermediary and receiving bank, after the transfer has been made. 
Mr C has made several complaints to HSBC and it issued final responses. In September 
2021 HSBCs final response said that the way Mr C was instructing transfers impacted what 
fees he would pay. HSBC confirmed it would apply a £4 international transfer fee but that if 
Mr C selected to pay all fees when instructing an international transfer, he would also be 
liable for charges applied by the receiving and intermediary banks. 
HSBC issued another complaint response in August 2022 that said receiving banks and 
intermediary banks may apply charges following an international transfer. A final response 
issued in April 2023 confirmed that charges were correctly applied when Mr Cs transfer 
instruction confirmed he would pay all fees that can take several months to be applied. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaints Mr C made. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint. They thought HSBC had applied 
international transfer fees in line with Mr Cs instructions. The investigator also said the 
charges had been applied in line with the account terms and conditions. As the investigator 
wasnt persuaded international transfer fees had been incorrectly applied or that HSBC had 
made a mistake they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I can see the investigator quoted the relevant section of HSBCs terms and conditions in 
their view to Mr C. In short, the terms say that HSBC may use an intermediary bank when 
transferring funds internationally. The terms add that the intermediary bank and receiving 
banks may charge their own fees. The terms continue by saying that the account holder will 
pay these fees if they tell HSBC they want to pay all charges when instructing the 
international transfer. So Im satisfied HSBCs terms make provision for fees charges by 
intermediary and receiving banks when an international transfer is sent, depending on how 
its instructed. 
HSBCs provided systems information that shows customers are given three options when 
instructing an international transfer. One of the options says the HSBC account holder will 
pay all fees, including those applied by intermediary and receiving banks. Another option 
means all fees applied by HSBC, the intermediary and receiving banks will be paid by the 
recipient. A final option allows customers to pay HSBCs international transfer fee of £5 
(previously £4) and for the recipient to pay the intermediary and receiving bank fees.  Im 
satisfied HSBC offers options for international transfers and allows the customer to select 
what fees they will pay when instructing. 
Ive reviewed Mr Cs account statements and can see there are occasions when the 
intermediary and receiving bank fees were later charged to his account. There are other 
occasions where no intermediary or receiving bank charges were applied. But Im satisfied 
that reflects the fact that on some occasions Mr C instructed international transfers where 
the recipient would pay the fees and on other occasions they were instructed so he paid 
them all. 
There is no option to instruct international transfers without either the sender (Mr C in this 
case) or the recipient paying any intermediary or receiving bank charges that may arise. 
Those are in addition to the standard fee HSBC applies which was originally £4 but has 
since increased to £5. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr C but Ive not found anything that shows hes been unfairly or 
incorrectly charged for making international transfers by HSBC. As Im satisfied HSBC hasnt 
made any mistakes and handled Mr Cs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman