DRN-3026931
The complaint
Mr W complains that Oplo CF Ltd (Oplo), trading as 1st Stop Car Finance, irresponsibly 
granted him a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
In September 2016, Mr W acquired a car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Oplo. 
Mr W was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £126.59, with a final optional 
payment of £175 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £6,251.28.
Mr W says that Oplo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Oplo didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included checking Mr Ws credit file and verifying his income. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Oplo didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr W didnt agree, and the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
The credit check Oplo completed showed some historical account defaults but also showed 
that Mr W had defaulted on a pay day loan only eight months earlier. I think this, along with 
the fact Mr W had over £3,000 of outstanding credit and thered been almost 30 credit 
searches made on him within the last 3 months, should have indicated that Mr W was likely 
to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Oplo to have got a 
more thorough understanding of Mr Ws financial circumstances before lending to him.
Ive considered what Oplo would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr W to provide us with bank statements at 
the time the lending was taken out or to give us permission to obtain them. However, Mr W 
hasnt provided those, and I therefore dont think it would be fair to suggest he has given us 
enough information to verify the expenditure he said he had at the time or to fairly determine 
what proportionate checks would likely have shown Oplo. 
As Mr W hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Oplo ought to have known he would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Oplo acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman