DRN-2922519
The complaint
Mr D complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim he made when his late 
wife needed medical treatment abroad, and treated their policy like it never existed. All 
references to ERGO include its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a travel insurance policy in January 2018 and Mr D completed a 
medical declaration by phone for them both. In answer to ERGOs questions, he explained 
Mrs D had previously had an episode of pneumonia, which led to her being prescribed some 
medications on a preventative basis, and that she had Multiple Sclerosis (MS).
Once the policy had started, Mr D called back to notify ERGO of some changes in Mrs Ds 
health, including an insect bite, and a hospital admission for cellulitis. ERGO advised that 
cover would still be in force, but any treatment for cellulitis would be excluded.
Mrs D did need treatment for cellulitis whilst abroad, and this was paid for by Mr D. But she 
later became unwell again and had to return to hospital. After several tests and scans, Mrs D 
was advised she had an underlying health condition which would need further investigation 
when she returned home. She was later diagnosed with chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia 
and has since very sadly passed away. 
When Mr D submitted a claim for the cost of the second hospital admission, ERGO said he 
hadnt declared a number of Mrs Ds medical conditions. It noted shed had a heart attack, 
that she was taking medicines commonly associated with raised cholesterol and high blood 
pressure, and that shed suffered from urinary tract infections (UTIs). It said it wouldnt have 
been prepared to offer cover if these conditions had been declared. It declined the claim and 
treated the policy like it never existed, although it did later refund any premiums paid.
Mr D complained. He said the heart attack was never proven, and that the medications for 
high blood pressure and raised cholesterol were preventative. He also said the undeclared 
conditions werent related to the treatment Mrs D received. And he highlighted hed made 
ERGO aware of changes in Mrs Ds health once the policy started, which shows he wasnt 
trying to conceal anything. But ERGO didnt change its stance. 
Our investigator felt ERGO had acted fairly. She thought it was reasonable to have expected 
Mr D to declare that Mrs D had suffered from a heart attack, high blood pressure and raised 
cholesterol, and was satisfied this would have led to the application being declined. So, she 
felt ERGO was entitled to wind back the clock and treat the policy as though it never existed, 
so long as it returned any premiums paid. 
I issued a provisional decision on 30 June 2021. I said;
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies if the misrepresentation is a 
qualifying one. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if reasonable care had been taken.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. In the context of 
medical conditions, these remedies apply regardless of whether or not the conditions being 
claimed for are related to the conditions which werent declared.
Was reasonable care taken?
ERGO thinks Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
made a medical declaration on Mrs Ds behalf. The documentation made clear that, when 
making a declaration for another traveller, it is your responsibility to ensure that you have 
full knowledge of their medical conditions and can answer the questions as confidently as if 
you were declaring your own conditions. If you are not 100% sure, then you should check 
with them or ask them to check with their GP.
Ive listened to the application call and note that Mr D was asked in the last two years have 
you or your wife been waiting for or had any consultations, investigations, test results or 
check ups for any medical or psychological condition? He was later asked in the last two 
years have you or your wife been prescribed or taken or are you taking any medications 
including repeat prescriptions? At the end of the call Mr D was asked whether there were 
any conditions or symptoms that havent yet been covered on this call? 
The medical notes Ive seen show that Mrs D was treated for a suspected UTI in late 2016 
and early 2017. She underwent various tests and was prescribed an antibiotic thats used to 
treat bacterial infections. Therefore, I think, if reasonable care had been taken, this should 
have been declared in response to the questions transcribed above. But it wasnt mentioned 
in any of Mr Ds responses.
During the call Mr D was also asked, have either of you ever in your life had or received 
treatment, investigations or tests for a heart attack, angina, chest pain or any other heart 
condition Mr D answered no, and says he did so because a heart attack wasnt 
confirmed, but I dont think thats consistent with the medical evidence Ive seen.
In summer 2015, Mrs D disclosed to a dermatologist that shed been admitted to hospital 
with a silent anterior MI and various other medical complications. In this context, given the 
notes that follow, I think MI is likely to stand for myocardial infarction (heart attack). So, this 
suggests Mrs D was aware at that point that she was suspected to have had a heart attack.
In late 2015, the cardiology department where Mrs D was being treated discharged her to 
the care of her general practitioner (GP). The discharge letter said On balance I would 
label her event in June around the time of her pneumonia as a type 2 myocardial infarction 
precipitated by the severity of her illness This supports that a heart attack diagnosis was 
confirmed.Its evident that one of the diagnoses included by Mrs Ds GP on her fitness for work 
statements was MI, which Mrs D would have seen. And thats the diagnosis given in the 
significant past section of her medical notes. Also, while Mr D later said the heart attack 
was never confirmed, he originally told ERGO he thought hed declared it at the same time 
as the pneumonia.
Having weighed up the evidence carefully, Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs D 
was made aware of her diagnosis, and that this therefore ought to have been declared. Im 
also mindful that the question asked about investigations or tests. And its clear that Mrs D 
underwent a coronary arteriogram, cardiac MRI and echocardiogram following her episode 
of pneumonia, which ought to have been declared in any event. 
The question I mentioned previously, which had been prefaced with have you or your wife 
ever in your life had or received treatment, investigations or tests for went on to ask about 
high blood pressure, blood clots, raised cholesterol, aneurysm or circulatory condition
Mr D answered no to this question. Whilst he had already declared Mrs D took Bisoprolol, 
Atorvastatin and Aspirin in response to a previous question, he said these were prescribed 
to make sure Mrs D had no repercussions from her episode of pneumonia. 
From what I can tell, while investigations were ongoing into Mrs Ds suspected heart attack, 
she was prescribed a number of medications, including Bisoprolol, Atorvastatin and others 
that are commonly associated with high blood pressure and raised cholesterol. 
However, once the investigations were complete, Mrs D was told she could discontinue most 
of the medications. Her cardiac function was found to be normal and no significant flow 
limiting disease was found. It was concluded the heart attack was precipitated by the 
severity of her pneumonia.
The cardiology department recommended she continue with Aspirin and Atorvastatin for 
secondary prevention as a degree of plaque had been observed in her arteries. Separately, 
a dermatologist said, indeed her lipids are completely normal so she has certainly not got 
hypercholesterolemia. I think this does add weight to Mr Ds testimony that the medications 
were intended, in the first instance at least, to be preventative. And that no findings of his 
blood pressure or raised cholesterol were made at that point. 
Later in 2015 though, Mrs D did have a high blood pressure reading during a visit to her GP. 
The GP noted that the reading was raised and advised Mrs D to restart a blood pressure 
medication called Ramipril. And I think this was relevant to the question of whether Mrs D 
had ever in her life had treatment, investigations or tests for high blood pressure. 
The Ramipril was later stopped again after a review of Mrs Ds medication by a cardiologist. 
In the interim, Mrs D had asked to be prescribed Bisoprolol again (another blood pressure 
medicine) on the understanding shed been told to continue taking it during an outpatient 
clinic, though its unclear why. This continued to be issued until November 2018.
Taking all of the above into account, while the blood pressure medicine may have been 
preventative or precautionary to start with, Mrs Ds GP does seem to have advised her to go 
back onto one of the medicines for a further period in late 2015 following a high reading. So, 
on balance, I think high blood pressure ought to have been declared. 
However, I accept that any medications associated with high cholesterol were preventative 
in nature, and I can see ERGOs agents now accept that there is no apparent abnormal 
cholesterol levels. I dont think there was any misrepresentation in this regard. In summary, I think Mrs Ds UTI, high blood pressure and heart attack should reasonably 
have been declared. 
Would ERGO have offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if reasonable care had 
been taken?
Ive worked through what the medical screening would have looked like if reasonable care 
had been taken. Where follow up questions would have been asked, Ive based the answers 
on the medical evidence available to me. The answers given in relation to pneumonia and 
MS have remained the same. In terms of the other conditions, Ive concluded the answers 
should have been as follows: 
MI
Have you ever had a heart bypass, an angioplasty or a coronary stent? No  none of 
these
Have you ever been a smoker? Yes  gave up more than ten years ago 
How many heart attacks have you had in total? 1 
How long ago was your most recent heart attack? Between 1 and 3 years ago
Are you waiting to see a specialist about new symptoms? Or awaiting any tests, 
results or surgery? No 
Can you always walk 200 metres on the flat with no chest pain or tightness or 
breathlessness? Yes 
Have you had any episodes of chest pain since your last heart attack? No 
Have you been advised to take medication for high blood pressure? Yes 
High blood pressure
How many medicines does your doctor advise you to take for high blood pressure? 0
(This question was answered giving Mrs D the benefit of any doubt because its 
phrased in the present tense and its unclear from the medical notes why she asked 
to be prescribed Bisoprolol after she was told she could come off it).
Has your dose been increased or have you been prescribed a new tablet in the last 6 
months? No 
Have you been advised to take medication to lower your cholesterol? No 
UTI 
Have you had 3 or more urinary tract infections in the last 12 months? No 
Have you ever been admitted to hospital as a result of a urinary tract infection? No 
Are you currently taking medication to reduce the risk of further infections? No 
Have you been treated for a kidney infection in the last 3 months? No ERGOs underwriters have sent me evidence to show that this set of answers would in fact 
have resulted in the policy being accepted, but at a higher premium. As ERGO would have 
offered the policy on different terms (a higher premium) Im satisfied the misrepresentations 
described above were qualifying. 
What remedy is available to ERGO in these circumstances?
There doesnt seem to be a suggestion from ERGO that Mr D misrepresented Mrs Ds health 
deliberately or recklessly. As such, Ive considered the remedies that are available to ERGO 
in the event of a careless, qualifying misrepresentation. 
Ordinarily, the correct remedy in this scenario would be for ERGO to accept the claim on a 
proportionate basis, in line with the proportion of the correct premium that has been paid. 
However, ERGOs underwriters have confirmed to us that the risk score would have been 
just below the acceptance cut off that was applicable when the policy was taken out. And the 
declarations Mr D made once the policy started would have increased it beyond the cut-off, 
which would have led to cover being withdrawn. 
The copy of the medical declarations said, if there are any changes in your health or 
prescribed medication prior to commencement of the period of insurance, before departing 
on any trip and throughout the life of your policy we must be notified immediately in order for 
us to confirm the continuance of cover.
The policy booklet also highlighted various situations in which a further declaration would be 
required, including if a new medical condition was diagnosed or if changes were made to a 
policyholders prescribed medication. This was on the third page of the policy booklet and 
reasonably prominent. I dont think its in doubt that Mr D understood this requirement, 
because he did call ERGO to make further declarations after the policy started. 
Our approach to changes in health after a policy has already started is that insurers should 
only alter the terms of the cover theyd previously agreed to provide if the change in health 
significantly changes the nature of the risk to be insured. In this case, for example, Mr D 
declared that Mrs D had been bitten by an insect, but ERGO accepts this would have made 
no difference to the risk score, and has therefore disregarded it when considering what 
would have happened but for the misrepresentations described above. 
ERGO thinks it should have been made aware that Mrs Ds UTIs had become chronic, but I 
dont consider this to be a significant change in health either. Having said that, I think the fact 
that Mrs D referred herself to an accident and emergency department five days before she 
was scheduled to travel with worsening cellulitis whilst on fluclox (an anti-biotic), was a 
significant change in health. Thats because Mrs D was clearly concerned enough to seek 
emergency medical attention and was advised to take different medication. Cellulitis can 
spread and become more serious. And it meant Mrs D was more likely to need further 
treatment whilst abroad.
Based on Mr Ds original declarations ERGO was happy to allow cover to continue on the 
basis that any treatment for cellulitis would be excluded from cover. Based on the revised 
screening though, its lead underwriter has said that, upon being made aware of Mrs Ds 
cellulitis, ERGO would have explained that the risk score now exceeded the cut off. 
ERGO therefore would have advised that Mr and Mrs D were no longer covered to travel, 
but it would have offered them the opportunity to submit a cancellation claim. On balance, 
Im satisfied this is how things would have played out in the event that reasonable care had 
been taken during the application, and that ERGOs proposal to allow Mr and Mrs D to make 
a cancellation claim in lieu of travel would have been in line with our approach.On this basis, ERGO has offered to assess what it would have paid out in the event that a 
cancellation claim had been submitted at the time. And I think thats a reasonable way of 
resolving this complaint in the circumstances. 
I should make Mr D aware that, as only a proportion of the correct premiums were paid, that 
will be reflected in the settlement. Furthermore, I think ERGO could account for the fact that 
it previously refunded any premiums paid by deducting that amount from any settlement too. 
Given that, ultimately, this is a finding that ERGO didnt handle the claim fairly in the first 
instance, I think it should also add interest at a rate of 8% annual simple to any settlement 
from the date of claim to the date of settlement to account for Mr D being out of pocket. 
Other arguments made by Mr D
Mr D has mentioned that all of these issues could have been avoided if ERGO had 
requested Mrs Ds medical notes from the outset. But he was under a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, and ERGO was entitled to rely on him 
having met that duty. It also made him aware of the importance of taking reasonable care 
during the application call and in the policy terms. So, I dont think it was obliged to check 
Mrs Ds medical records to ensure his answers were correct and complete. 
He's also mentioned that theres arguably no link between the conditions that werent 
declared and the condition Mrs D needed treating for. But they nevertheless would have 
been relevant to ERGOs decision about whether it was prepared to cover Mr and Mrs D, 
and if so, on what terms. So, the fact that these conditions werent declared did still cause 
ERGO prejudice. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to consider 
what it would have paid out in the event of a cancellation claim being made in lieu of travel. 
Any settlement can account for only a proportion of the correct premiums having been paid, 
and a refund of premiums previously having been provided. I intend to direct it to pay interest 
at a rate of 8% annual simple from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D responded to say that ERGO had given him an impression while his wife was in 
hospital that it would settle any bills. And they made decisions about Mrs Ds treatment 
based on that understanding. 
ERGO responded accepting my findings, except for the award of interest. It said it only 
hadnt offered Mr D the option to make a cancellation claim in lieu of travel at the time 
because of the misrepresentations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive now listened to the calls that took place between Mr D and ERGO whilst Mrs D was in 
hospital. I havent found that ERGO gave Mr D the impression it had accepted the claim and 
would therefore cover any costs incurred. The agents said that all expenses were subject to 
the terms, conditions and exclusions of Mr and Mrs Ds policy, that a verification of coverage 
would take place and that this might include a past medical history check. ERGO had an obligation to review the claim promptly and fairly. It issued a final response 
letter two years ago which said it had concluded it would never have offered Mr and Mrs D a 
policy if reasonable care had been taken during the medical screening. It applied a remedy 
from CIDRA based on that conclusion (a refund of premiums). 
Ive reached a finding that this conclusion was incorrect. Based on my review of the available 
medical evidence, ERGO would have provided Mr and Mrs D with a policy (albeit at a higher 
premium), but would have withdrawn cover when Mr D called to declare Mrs Ds cellulitis (a 
call which ERGO has sent us a recording of). Its confirmed that in doing so it would have 
offered to pay a cancellation claim in lieu of travel. The appropriate remedy would therefore 
have been for ERGO to consider what it would have paid in those circumstances, and pay a 
proportion of that amount in line with the proportion of the correct premiums that were paid. 
So, the interest award is intended to account for the fact that, had ERGO done this when it 
first reviewed Mr and Mrs Ds claim and subsequent complaint, Mr D would have had the 
benefit of any funds he received in settlement. As the review is only happening now, hes 
been out of pocket. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to consider what it would 
have paid out in the event of a cancellation claim being made in lieu of travel. Any settlement 
can account for only a proportion of the correct premiums having been paid, and a refund of 
premiums previously having been provided. I direct it to pay interest at a rate of 8% annual 
simple from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman