DRN-2636518
The complaint
Mr A complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with a claim against his 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. In brief, Mr A is a member of a group, private medical insurance policy via 
his employer. His membership renews annually on 1 February of each year. Mr As 
membership has an annual limit of £1,000 for specialist consultations, diagnostic tests, 
practitioner fees and fees for out-patient treatment. 
In February 2020, AXA declined a claim for treatment Mr A had in September 2019. It 
said that it had already paid claims to the maximum allowed under the policy for that 
policy year. AXA subsequently realised that it shouldnt have deducted a payment of 
£130 from Mr As out-patient benefit earlier in the policy year, so it credited that amount 
to Mr As annual benefit.  
Mr A says that its unfair that he must pay the outstanding amounts. He says that he 
checked his annual allowance before proceeding. Mr A says that while AXA put its error 
right in relation to an earlier payment of £130, he hadnt received compensation for that. 
One of our investigators looked at what at happened. He initially upheld Mr As 
complaint. The investigator considered further information provided by AXA. He then 
said that the onus is on consumers to manage their annual limit and its not AXAs 
responsibility to do that, so he didnt think Mr As complaint should he upheld. Mr A didnt 
agree and asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding Mr As complaint because I dont think that AXA treated him unfairly. I say 
that because:
The starting point is the terms of Mr As membership, which provides that theres a 
combined annual limit of £1,000 for specialist consultations, diagnostic tests, 
practitioner fees and fees for out-patient treatment.  
Its common ground that Mr A enquired about the amount of his remaining annual 
out-patient allowance at various stages. AXA gave accurate responses based on the 
invoices for eligible treatment it had received and paid. So, I dont think that AXA 
misled Mr A about his allowance. 
Mr A  is responsible for the costs he incurs in having private treatment. However, if his 
treatment is eligible treatment, AXA pays the costs that are covered under his 
benefits. Any costs, including eligible treatment costs, that are not covered under      
Mr As benefits are his responsibility. 
AXA wouldnt know whether the treatments it had previously authorised had taken 
place: Mr A is better placed than AXA to know what treatment hes had. In addition, 
AXA wouldnt necessarily know the prices of the consultation or tests.  So, it couldnt  
keep  a check  on pending  claims.  
In the circumstances that arose here, Mr A had certain treatment in September 2019, 
but the treating hospital didnt ask AXA for payment until February 2020. That wasnt 
AXAs fault. AXA isnt obliged to take into account invoices it hasnt yet received when 
informing Mr A about his remaining entitlement. If Mr A wanted to ensure that 
everything was covered, it was open to him to keep track of the treatment hed had 
and the invoices AXA had already paid. 
During Mr As complaint, AXA realised that it had made an error in paying an invoice. It 
put that matter right by crediting that amount to Mr As annual benefit. I think that was 
sufficient and I dont think that AXA is required to do anything more about this part of 
Mr As complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but there are no grounds on which to direct AXA to settle 
the outstanding invoices. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman