DRN-1655697
 
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy as she says UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance 
(Direct Line) told her that her car insurance premiums wouldnt increase following a car 
accident.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs C was involved in a car accident which was recorded as a fault claim, as she hit 
into the back of a third party when they didnt pull forward at a junction. Mrs C called Direct 
Line to discuss the claim and asked about the impact it would have on her insurance. Mrs C 
asked this question to understand how her no claims discount would be affected as well as 
her future premiums. From the conversations she understood that she would have a mark 
against her no claims, but that the claim would have no other impact on her insurance, 
including the price. 
At renewal, Mrs C was surprised to find her premium had increased by around £200. She 
made a complaint to Direct Line and said she was misadvised in the calls. It accepted that 
one of the calls couldve been clearer, but considered that it hadnt incorrectly told her that 
her premiums wouldnt increase. So Mrs C brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint as he didnt think shed clearly asked about 
premium increases. So he was satisfied the potentially misleading comment Direct Line 
made was in relation to her no claims discount only, in line with the rest of the conversation 
shed had. Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs C has complained about the premium increase, Ive looked at her renewal 
documentation. Looking at this, I note Mrs C had also made changes to her policy between 
buying cover in 2019 and renewal. In 2020 she no longer owned the car she had the 
accident in and instead she had a more expensive brand of car, with a larger engine that 
was less than a year old. So Im satisfied that the premium increase wasnt only affected by 
the accident, but also by the greater value of the newer car she was insuring. The value of 
the car being insured does impact the amount an insurer charges, as if a claim was to be 
made its responsible for more expensive repairs/replacements.
Coming to the conversations Mrs C had with Direct Line, Ive been provided with claim 
records and Ive listened to one of the calls where she discusses the impact on her 
insurance.
I appreciate that the call between Mrs C and the representative couldve been clearer as the 
representative does suggest the only impact on the insurance will be the strike on her no 
claims. However, the conversation has only been about no claims up to this point and so 
premium increases hadnt been discussed. I can hear this was intended as confirmation of 
the conversation that had been had. I do however accept this couldve confused Mrs C, but 
Im satisfied that the representative didnt say that Mrs Cs premiums wouldnt increase. I 
understand that this is what Mrs C had wanted to understand from her calls, but she didnt 
specifically ask this question. And  on listening to the call Ive been provided  she sets out 
that she had agreed with the other driver to go through the insurance, so Ive thought about 
the impact this wouldve had.
I think its important to set out to Mrs C that she did have a requirement to tell her insurer 
about this accident, regardless of whether she was claiming (as per the General Conditions 
of her policy). So this in itself wouldve had an impact on her premiums, as regardless of 
whether shed claimed, being in an accident does impact risk so therefore the premium 
charged. And this is something that is common across the car insurance industry. Then, 
even if she didnt personally claim, the third party and their decision to claim on her policy is 
to an extent out of her control. So regardless of whether Mrs C did herself claim, its most 
likely her premium was going to go up due to this incident. And in the same respect, 
regardless of her understanding from the call, her premium was at that time already going to 
increase. On that basis, I dont consider that Direct Line needs to compensate Mrs C. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman