DRN-3713504
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy in summary because he has had issues making payments towards his 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as (Tesco Bank) credit card. He says that payments 
keep being put on hold and he has not received an adequate explanation as to why this 
keeps occurring. He is also unhappy that he was told a monthly account statement was 
available a day earlier than it actually was. He is also unhappy that the links sent to him by 
Tesco Bank detailing the outcome of his complaint did not work correctly.
What happened
Mr M attempted to make a payment towards his credit card. As it was not showing as being 
made on his account, he contacted Tesco Bank. The member of staff said that they were not 
sure why this had occurred, but the payment had been placed on hold. This block was 
removed. Mr M complained about this to Tesco Bank and the response was to credit his 
account with £20 to reflect the fact that Mr M was not informed that the reason the payment 
was put on hold was due to Tesco Banks internal fraud process.
The following month this happened again and Mr M called Tesco Bank and had the payment 
removed from being placed on hold. Mr M complained again about this, but this time Tesco 
Bank said it would not offer any additional compensation as it had explained to Mr M that this 
was part of their internal fraud process and this might continue to happen.
A month later Mr M received notification that he could access his monthly account statement 
when in fact it was not available for another day. Mr M complained to Tesco Bank about this 
and received £10 compensation for this.
Finally, Mr M is unhappy that the links sent out in Tesco Banks response to his complaint 
were not accessible to him when the e-mail said they would be valid for 60 days.
One of our investigators looked into this and she believed that Tesco Bank did not do 
anything wrong in relation to putting Mr Ms payments on hold. She also believed that the 
compensation paid for the customer service received and for the statement notification being 
sent early was sufficient.
Mr M did not agree with this and therefore the complaint has been referred to me  an 
ombudsman  for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I will consider whether Tesco Bank made an error in placing a hold on Mr Ms 
payments. 
Tesco Bank has explained why it placed a hold on Mr Ms payments, I am not able to share 
these reasons here as they relate to Tesco Bank internal systems. But I am satisfied with the 
reasons provided and that this was not as a result of an error on the part of Tesco Bank.
I will next consider the customer service that Mr M received. From the call notes and call that 
we have been provided with I accept that Tesco Bank could have more clearly explained that 
the payments had been placed on hold, broadly why it had occurred and that it could happen 
again. This in turn wouldve lessened the frustration caused to Mr M when it occurred again. 
That said though, I think that the £20 that Mr M has already been credited with is sufficient 
for what I think was message that couldve perhaps been explained a bit better to Mr M.
In relation to Mr M being informed that his monthly account statement was available to view 
earlier than it actually was, I can see that this would be slightly inconvenient to Mr M. I think 
that the £10 he was paid for this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Finally, I note Mr Ms concerns in relation to not being able to use the links to view his 
complaint correspondence. From what I have been provided with, it is difficult to say why this 
happened and whether this was actually an error on the part of Tesco Bank. In any event, 
this was rectified on the same day that the issue was raised by new links being sent to him. 
So regardless of why it occurred, given that the matter was rectified so quickly, I dont think 
compensation is merited for this.
I understand that Mr M will not be happy with this outcome and I would like to ensure him 
that I have carefully considered all the points that he has raised. But in general our role is to 
return a consumer to the position they wouldve been in had the complaint event not 
occurred. So we would look to rectify any actual financial loss that was directly caused by a 
financial business making an error. But importantly, we do not punish or fine a firm. And our 
awards for distress and inconvenience are limited to only reflect the impact that a matter has 
on a consumer. In this instance, I am satisfied that Tesco Bank did not actually make an 
error in putting a hold on Mr Ms payments, but it did make some other minor errors. And I 
think the compensation paid to Mr M reasonably reflects the impact these errors had on him. 
As Tesco Bank has already paid this compensation, it follows that Tesco Bank doesnt need 
to do anything more in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not require Tesco Bank to do anything more than it has 
already done, to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman