DRN-4263551
The complaint
Mr H complains Vanquis Bank Limited sold his credit card account to a debt collection agent 
(who Ill refer to as L) without telling him.
What happened
As a result of problems in Mr Hs industry he unfortunately found himself in financial 
difficulties for some time. Mr H called Vanquis on 21 March 2022 and agreed to start making 
repayments of £100 per month as he was now in a better position. This repayment plan was 
accepted by Vanquis over the phone.
As I understand it, Mr Hs account was then sold to L on 30 March 2022. He found this out 
because he contacted Vanquis on 15 April 2023 following repeated contact from L. And, 
when finding out Vanquis had sold his account to L so soon after agreeing a repayment plan 
hed subsequently kept to, he complained.
Vanquis said on 22 December 2020 a Notice of Default (NoD) was sent to him giving him a 
deadline to contact them regarding the arrears thatd built up. Vanquis said within this NoD, 
they explained they may register a default against his credit file, pass his account to a debt 
collector, or assign (sell) his account to a debt purchaser. And, when an account is sold, its 
the debt purchasers responsibility (L in Mr Hs case) to contact him and let him know. As 
Mr Hs account hadnt been sold when he made the agreement, Vanquis didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong.
Mr H asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but didnt think Vanquis 
had done anything wrong.
Mr H ultimately didnt accept this  saying Vanquis had reneged on their contract but didnt 
tell him this. He also raised a large number of other issues including:
Vanquis not passing his £100 monthly payment over to L in a timely fashion
This led to the default not being marked as settled as early as it should have done
It also led to more negative entries being recorded than there should have been
And it led to an overpayment being made
As our Investigator explained, these issues arent ones which were part of this case. That 
means I wont be considering them in this decision. If Mr H wants to pursue matters, hell 
need to have complained to Vanquis and / or L regarding the various issues, and then refer 
them to us within the stipulated six-month timeframe.
As Mr H didnt accept our Investigators answer regarding the complaint our service can 
consider, its now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in Mr Hs case needs to be whether Vanquis were allowed to sell the 
account to L as they did. 
The terms and conditions of the account allow Vanquis to sell the account to another 
provider. This is quite common in the credit industry and usually happens when the lender 
has decided the relationship has broken down to the point theyre not likely to get their 
money back anymore.
So, Im satisfied Vanquis didnt do anything wrong in selling the account  and generally it 
would be the debt purchaser who tells the customer of the sale. So, usually itd have been L 
in this case who would have told Mr H his account had been sold to them.
The remaining issue to consider, is whether Vanquis should still have been allowed to sell 
his account to L given hed made a repayment plan with Vanquis nine days earlier.
Mr H has said Vanquis made a contractual agreement with him on the phone when they 
agreed to take his payments. I cant quite consider matters in those terms, because although 
Im required to take into account the law, as well as relevant rules, regulations and good 
industry practice at the time, Im required to decide things on a fair and reasonable basis.
That means the question I need to answer is whether Vanquis have acted fairly and 
reasonably in selling Mr Hs account after he made a repayment plan.
My understanding from Vanquis information is the reason they did this is because the 
person who agreed the repayment plan with Mr H wouldnt have known the account was due 
to be sold in nine days. 
Mr Hs account had been registered as in default in April 2021. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Vanquis to decide to sell the account 11 months later, and I accept their 
explanation the adviser didnt know the account was due to be sold. Ultimately, as Vanquis 
are allowed to sell an account whenever they like agreeing a repayment plan wouldnt mean 
they cant. Because of that I cant say theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. I 
can though see why Mr H wouldnt have expected this given hed just made the repayment 
agreement  and I understand hell be disappointed in the outcome Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman