DRN-3492145
The complaint
Miss M complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds (Admiral) administration of 
her account resulting in an outstanding debt under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M says that Admiral renewed her policy in July 2021 without her authorisation. She 
says she received no renewal documentation prior to this. In August Miss M says she 
received a letter from Admiral telling her an outstanding balance of £321.44 was owed. The 
letter also gave notification of cancellation of the policy. 
Miss M says that prior to Admiral renewing her policy she arranged cover with another 
insurer. This meant she didnt need or want its cover. She received further contact chasing 
payment and was informed the debt had been passed to a collections team. Miss M 
complained to Admiral. But says she still received another letter confirming the impact non-
payment of the debt would have on her credit rating. 
Admiral told Miss M that it had sent a renewal pack toward the end of June 2021. It says this 
asked her to confirm if any details had changed or if she didnt wish to renew. Admiral says it 
didnt hear back and so continued with its cover. It says Miss Ms preferred method of 
receiving documents was via email, and this is how the documents were sent. It says it 
received no, bounced back emails so its confident the information was received. 
Admiral says the policy was later cancelled for non-payment, which resulted in a charge for 
time on cover and a mid-term cancellation fee. It says if Miss M can show she arranged 
alternative cover in July 2021 it will backdate the cancellation of its policy and there will be 
no payment owed. 
In November 2021 Admiral wrote to Miss M to confirm it had received the proof shed sent 
showing alternative cover was in place from July. It told her there was nothing for her to pay 
and she would receive no further contact from its collections team. 
Miss M wasnt satisfied with Admirals response and referred her complaint to our service. 
She says she accepts the cancellation and debt issues have been resolved. But she expects 
to be compensated for the aggravation and stress this matter has caused her. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. He says the evidence shows Admiral sent her 
renewal documents to the email address registered on her account.
Our investigator acknowledged that the email address Admiral used was for Miss Ms ex-
partner. However, he found no evidence that she had told Admiral she was no longer in a 
relationship. And she hadnt provided an alternative email address for it to use. 
Miss M didnt think this outcome was fair. She asked that an ombudsman should consider 
her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that in the early part of 2021 Miss Ms partner was removed from the policy. 
Admiral explains she became the policy administrator at this time in place of her partner. 
Unfortunately, due to an error Miss Ms partner was put back as the administrator in April 
2021. Admiral confirms this was an error on its part, which was later rectified. However, it 
confirms the correspondence email address didnt change. All email correspondence went to 
the address that had been confirmed for the policy. This includes the renewal documentation 
that it sent in June.
I have seen screen shots from Admirals system records that show the email address these 
documents were sent to is the address registered to Miss Ms policy. These documents were 
sent in June 2021 prior to the renewal date. 
I have thought about Miss Ms view that these documents shouldnt have been sent to her 
ex-partners email address. 
Having considered the evidence I cant see that Miss M informed Admiral to change the 
email address it had on file. Or that she told it she was no longer in a relationship. I 
understand her point that the administrator for the policy changed. But I dont think this 
necessarily means the email address registered to the policy would no longer be valid. There 
is no dispute that this is the email address that had been given to Admiral, or that email was 
the preferred method of contact. 
I note from Miss Ms policy terms and conditions under the section, Keeping your policy up 
to date it says:
You must tell us if any information detailed on your Motor Proposal Confirmation changes
And:
Please tell us immediately:
If you change your email address.    
I understand Miss M didnt receive the renewal emails sent to her ex-partners address. But 
she doesnt dispute having received documents for the previous years cover. I think its 
reasonable to expect she had the opportunity to read this information. And to have updated 
Admiral with her current email address. 
Admiral has supplied call recordings from telephone conversations it had with Miss M in April 
2021. Ive listened to these calls but there is no mention of Miss M no longer being in a 
relationship or of instructions to update her contact details. 
Im sorry that Miss M was distressed as a result of Admiral renewing her policy and the 
subsequent contact regarding a debt. But in these circumstances, I think the onus was on 
her to inform it of her change in circumstances and more specifically how it should contact 
her.  
Having considered all of this I dont think Admiral treated Miss M unfairly by following its 
process and corresponding via her chosen method. I think it acted reasonably by winding back the policy to the renewal date in July 2021, which meant no monies were owing and no 
cancellation is recorded against Miss M. Because of this I cant fairly ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman