DRN-3188101
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim under his motor 
insurance policy poorly.
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged while he was holidaying with his family a few hundred miles from 
home. Mr M was traveling with his wife, children, and pets. They also had a considerable 
amount of luggage and some bicycles with them.
Mr M contacted Aviva to arrange for his car to be collected for repair and arrange a courtesy 
car for his return home. Aviva agreed to collect the car and for it to be repaired in a garage 
local to his home. It told him a courtesy car would be delivered to him.
There were delays caused by Avivas recovery agents (R) when collecting Mr Ms car. Aviva 
had advised that his car would be collected at 12:30pm on the Wednesday and the courtesy 
car would be delivered the same day. So, Mr M waited at the holiday cottage for R to arrive, 
thinking that he would be able to resume his holiday and join his family in the afternoon, but 
R didnt collect the car until 5:30pm. 
Mr M called to find out what happened to the courtesy car and was told that he would now 
be given a hire car. However, he would need to collect it from a local branch 90 minutes 
away, Aviva said a taxi would be arranged to take him to collect it. Mr M let Aviva know he 
had to leave the holiday cottage at 10am on the Friday so would need the car by that time.
When Mr M hadnt heard anything by the Thursday afternoon, he called again to be told 
there was no hire car available, but if he could get a taxi, Aviva would reimburse him. Mr M 
tried to book a taxi, but none were able to fit in all of his family, luggage and willing to take 
his pets. So, Mr M asked his father-in-law to drive and collect them, which he agreed to do. 
Mr M was contacted at 9:45am on the Friday to tell him that a courtesy car could now be 
arranged, but Mr Ms father-in-law had already arrived at that time, so it was too late.
On his return, Mr M complained to Aviva about the mishandling of his claim. Aviva upheld his 
complaint and offered £200 for the inconvenience it caused. Mr M said if Aviva had paid for a 
taxi as it offered to, it would have cost at least £379 and so he felt the compensation Aviva 
offered wasn't enough and so brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator who looked into things agreed Aviva needed to do more and recommended 
it increase its offer to £350. Aviva disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm upholding this complaint and for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator, I'll explain.
Due to the nature of incidents that bring about insurance claims, there is always an element 
of inconvenience and sometimes stress. However, in this case the actions of Aviva and its 
agents magnified this for Mr M. He was given incorrect information which led him to 
effectively missing out on the final two days of his holiday with his family. 
The first day was when he had to stay in for the whole day, instead of the half day he 
thought, waiting for his car to be collected and expecting a courtesy car to be delivered, that 
didn't arrive. The second day (Thursday), where he thought he would have to take the 90-
minute taxi journey to collect the hire car. He needed to be around to make that journey, and 
so had to wait for the details of it. He was only aware it wasn't going ahead when he chased 
the details at 2:30pm, so a further day was wasted here.
He was unable to restart his holiday then as he had to take on the job of finding him and his 
family a suitable way home after being told he could get a taxi. Given Mr M's situation, I 
believe he should have been given more assistance here in sourcing a suitable solution to 
get home, but he was left to his own devices. 
This placed him on a tight deadline as he needed to leave the property by 10am the 
following morning - I can see this would have caused a huge amount of distress and worry, 
wondering how he would get his family home.
Given the misinformation and errors by Aviva and its agents caused Mr M to miss at least 
one and half days of his holiday. And he was caused a significant amount of distress in 
being left alone to arrange suitable transport for him and his family to return home, I don't 
believe Aviva has done enough to put things right here.
Putting things right
Aviva should increase its offer of compensation to a total amount of £350. It is entitled to 
deduct any money it has already paid to Mr M by way of compensation.
My final decision
for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr M's complaint about Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Aviva should now pay Mr M £350 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. It is 
entitled to deduct any money is already paid Mr M by way of compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman