DRN-4264389
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Bastion Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his breakdown insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Bastion includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M called Bastion as he had a flat tyre and wanted to make a claim under the breakdown 
insurance policy he held with it. Bastion looked into the claim for Mr M but when its agent put 
the claim through its system he said it wasnt able to provide cover. This was because 
Bastion believed Mr Ms car wasnt taxed (a requirement of the policy) and that he didnt 
have a car jack. As Mr M wasnt happy about this he complained to Bastion and then this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and he upheld the complaint. He was satisfied 
Mr M had shown his car was taxed at the time and he didnt think Bastion had shown that Mr 
M didnt have a jack at the time of claim either. Plus, he highlighted that he didnt think its 
documentation made the exclusion about the requirement to have a jack clear enough. So, 
he thought Bastion should pay the costs Mr M incurred having to get his car recovered or 
attended to. And £200 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused in declining 
the claim.
As Bastion didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Ill 
explain why.
I know Bastion feels it has acted fairly in declining Mr Ms claim as it felt his car wasnt taxed. 
Bastion says it relied on a government website in checking this but unfortunately the website 
wasnt up to date when it checked. However, Mr M has provided evidence that his car was 
taxed at the time of claim, but he had only done this recently, so the website clearly hadnt 
been updated. I accept Bastions point that it should be able to rely on the governments 
website. However, if it is going to decline claims on this basis it needs to ensure it is aware 
of any potential flaws in any systems it is relying on so that customers, like Mr M in this 
instance, arent left stranded when their car is taxed. Ultimately, Im satisfied Mr Ms car was 
taxed, and he explained this on the phone to Bastions agent. So, I cant say Bastion acted 
fairly in turning down Mr Ms claim for this reason and it was told on the phone that Mr M had 
a receipt to prove his car was taxed so it could have easily verified this. 
Bastion has also said it didnt send a recovery agent as Mr M didnt have a jack in his car 
highlighting that it was entitled to rely on a term outlined in the policy. However, Ive listened 
to the call when the claim was made, and I dont think it was fully established that Mr M 
didnt have a jack. Mr Ms son has since clarified that yes my father did have a jack in the 
vehicle and he struggles with English so had to rely on someone to make the call on his 
behalf. And Mr M was helped by someone when his car broke down and it would appear the 
language barrier may have contributed to the problems here. 
I say this as during the early part of the call, when someone was trying to help Mr M, it 
wasnt fully established whether Mr M had a jack or not. And Im sure the attempts to 
translate on Mr Ms behalf contributed to this. However, what troubles me in the call is that 
the person helping Mr M told Bastions agent that he would go and physically check if the 
car, which was parked outside their house, had a jack or not towards the end of the call, but 
the call taker wouldnt allow this. Given the earlier difficulty in establishing detail through the 
person translating this is surprising. And it was clear from the call Mr M didnt really know 
where things were stored in his car and that he was elderly and had a bad knee which was 
why the kind passer-by was helping him and offered to check if the car had a jack or not 
which Bastion refused.
Turning to the level of compensation awarded I agree Mr M should be paid £200 
compensation. I know Bastion has explained that he wasnt in a vulnerable situation at the 
side of the road which I accept. But he was sat in the house of a passer-by who had kindly 
helped him - including pushing his car out of the road - who made it clear he was going to 
have to go out. So clearly Mr M would have to leave and arrange help himself when he 
expected his policy to cover this exact type of situation, which must have been stressful, 
particularly as he was clearly vulnerable and needed help. And all this was avoidable, as Mr 
M had a genuine claim, and he was left without means of getting home and having to 
organise a mechanic or recovery agent to attend his car. 
Given all of this, I agree that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Bastion to pay the costs Mr Ms incurred in having a 
mechanic or recovery agent attend his car (subject to reasonable proof) plus 8% simple 
interest for the time hes been without the money. It isnt fully clear, from the information 
before me, if Mr M incurred any costs in having his car recovered although he has provided 
a receipt for a replacement tyre. But I wouldnt expect Bastion to pay for a replacement tyre 
as this isnt covered by the policy. This may come as a disappointment to Mr M, but he was 
always going to have to pay for a replacement tyre and this wasnt covered under the policy. 
So, I wouldnt expect Bastion to have to pay this.
Ill leave Mr M to advance any costs he incurred in relation to an attending mechanic or 
recovery driver with Bastion direct. And it should pay £200 by way of compensation. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require Bastion 
Insurance Company Limited to pay the costs Mr M incurred in having a breakdown mechanic 
attend his car (subject to reasonable proof) plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement and £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman