DRN-3845941
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) misdiagnosed a problem when 
they came out to do an emergency repair and may have caused damage to his plumbing.
 
What happened
Mr E held a home emergency policy with IPA.
 
In July 2022 Mr Es own plumber was clearing a blockage in his downstairs shower when he 
noticed that the shower waste wasnt attached properly to the drain and so water was 
leaking out and causing damage under the floor. 
Mr E thought that this issue must have been caused by IPAs contractors who had been 
called out the previous year to deal with a drain issue, and so he complained to IPA. 
IPA checked all their records and said that their contractor had attended in June 2021 to look 
at a leak from the upstairs bath and had also been told there was an issue with the 
downstairs shower. However, they couldnt find a leak in the upstairs bath, and they didnt 
undertake any work on the downstairs shower so they cant be responsible for any issues 
with it. 
 
Mr E was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt think IPA had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Mr E says that the shower waste leak has resulted from work undertaken by IPAs contractor 
to his shower in 2021 when they came to unblock it. 
So, Ive looked at the evidence relating to work done on Mr Es property in 2021 to see 
whether, on the balance of probabilities, it is likely that IPA are responsible. 
I can see from the claim records that there are four call outs under the policy in 2021. Two 
are for a blocked sink, one relates to the downstairs shower and one relates to the bath. The 
call outs relating to the shower and the bath are the relevant ones.  
 
There is a call out recorded in May 2021 for a blocked shower. However, the claim notes 
record that as Mr E had an alternative bathing facility  ie, an upstairs bath, no assistance 
was provided as it wasnt classed as an emergency repair. Mr E has agreed in his complaint 
letter that this was the case. So, Im satisfied that IPAs contractors couldnt have done 
anything on this occasion which may have caused damage.  
In June 2021 Mr E called IPA out again. This time it was because of water coming through 
the ceiling from the upstairs bath. The call out sheets for that visit note that there was no 
leak from the bath or the pipes and that the water on the floor is more likely to be because of 
water spilling over the sides when using the bath as it was a roll top. 
The call out sheet also records that Mr E has mentioned the downstairs shower is blocked. 
The notes say that no assistance was given with the shower because there was an 
alternative bathing facility upstairs which was usable. 
Mr E and his wife dispute this record, as they say that the plumber did unblock the shower 
for them. Mrs E was there are the time the plumber attended, and her testimony is that the 
plumber unblocked the shower. She says that he borrowed their Henry hoover and a plunger 
and was able to unblock it. He also recommended buying a flower chain to help prevent 
future issues. 
I note that this evidence directly conflicts with what the call out sheet says, and Im not able 
to say for certain whether the contractor did provide the assistance to unblock the shower 
waste. 
However, I am satisfied that even if that were the case and the contractor had unblocked the 
shower waste as Mrs E has stated, I still wouldnt be able to say on the balance of 
probabilities that the contractor had caused the shower waste to become detached from the 
drain because there is insufficient evidence. 
It was a further year before the issue was noticed, and so the detachment of the pipe could 
have occurred at any time during that year. It may also have bene like that before the 
contractors visit. And so, I cant fairly hold IPA responsible for the issues that Mr E 
subsequently experienced.     
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman