DRN-3724361
The complaint
Mr T complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc havent applied payments correctly to his account
and have provided him with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr T has a Sainsburys credit card. He transferred a balance from an external credit card for
£1,000 on a promotional interest free rate on 28 June 2021 (and paid a £30 fee, which also
benefitted from the promotional interest free rate). Mr T says that between July-October
2021, he paid the outstanding purchase balances in full (apart from the £1,030 total from the
balance transfer and fee). Mr T said that his October 2021 statement had applied interest of
£62.19 and his September statement showed the interest free balance had reduced to £911
from £1,030.
Mr T contacted Sainsburys. He said he got several wrong and conflicting replies, of which
none of them answered the question and they resolved the case without resolving it properly
or informing him. Mr T says he phoned Sainsburys escalated complaints team and they said
he received a refund of £119 on 27 August from a purchase he had previously made. They
said as Mr T had paid the August statement purchase outstanding balance in full, this
resulted in the £1,030 outstanding balance transfer and fee being reduced by £119 to £911,
so when he paid the balance due in October and he deducted £1,030 it was underpaid by
£119, so interest was applied as the outstanding purchase balance was not paid in full.
Mr T told Sainsburys that it seemed unfair that he should be penalised for a refund he had
no control over. He asked Sainsburys to apply some discretion to resolve the situation
amicably. Sainsburys declined to do this. Mr T says that Sainsburys were wrong to apply
the payment in the way they had done as he says Sainsburys did not apply the credit as per
their terms and conditions. He says when the payment was made to his account on 3
September, it didnt leave a balance of £1,030 as this failed to take into account the
transactions which had accrued prior to the September payment and the August credit. Mr T
says the correct procedure would have been to reduce the purchase balance on the day the
refund was applied on 27 August.
Mr T emailed Sainsburys to explain they had made a mistake, but they did not agree. He
says he emailed the complaint handler in more detail but she didnt reply, so Mr T rang the
escalated complaints team for a second opinion, but they passed it back to the original
investigator who stood by her decision.
Sainsburys responded and they said that regarding Mr Ts September statement, he made a
payment of £3,061.86 to clear his purchase balance, but as hed also received a merchant
refund of £119, the refund was applied to reduce the balance of his balance transfer within
the September statement. They said they advise a refund, or a credit adjustment isnt
classed as a payment, as it cant be used as a payment towards the account, but it does
reduce a balance.
Sainsburys said that Mr Ts October statement required a payment of £2,207.57 to clear his
purchase balance, but the payment made towards his account was £2,088.57, which was
£119 less than the full amount and he was charged £62.19 interest. Sainsburys said that the
interest on his credit card is charged in arrears, therefore the balance must be paid in full for
two consecutive months to stop incurring interest. They said due to the full balance not being
paid in Octobers statement, trailing interest would be applied to his statement for November.
Sainsburys said the refund could not be classed as a credit balance as he would always
hold an outstanding balance until the balance transfer amount had been fully repaid. His
statement for October showed the purchase balance was £2,207.57 but as Mr T chose to
pay £2,088.57, there had been no bank error and the interest had been applied correctly in
line with the terms and conditions, so they were unable to refund these charges.
Sainsburys said that having reviewed the secure messages sent to Mr T, they agreed the
information provided to him in these messages werent clear or answered his concerns. In
recognition of this, they said they credited his credit card with £50. Mr T brought his
complaint to our service.
Our investigator said that Mr T relied on section 2.3 of the terms and conditions. He said that
as Mr T had purchases amounting to £873.95 prior to 27 August 2021, Mr T reasonably
believed, that the refund of £119 wouldve been applied to the purchase amounts and not his
balance transfer amount. Our investigator said that Sainsburys should refund Mr T £86.60
interest he paid. Our investigator also said that Mr T had asked for some management
intervention in trying to resolve his complaint, but he thought Sainsburys caused a degree of
inconvenience that couldve been prevented. So he did not think the £50 they paid him for
inconvenience was fair. So in addition to the £86.60 interest refund, he said they should
make an additional payment of £25 to cover the inconvenience caused.
Sainsburys sent our investigator a further response which they said showed they had
adhered to their terms and conditions. Our investigator forwarded these points to Mr T. He
asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the terms and conditions
attached to Sainsburys reply appear to directly contradict their argument. He said in their
reply they state that We wouldnt look to apply this payment to purchases which have not
yet been produced to a statement. Yet in the terms and conditions they attach to support
their argument 2.3 clearly states the order the payments will be applied and 2.4 clearly
states that if you pay off more than the amount shown on the statement it will be used to pay
off transactions that have not yet appeared in the same order as those that do appear on the
statement. He said even if there was a technical merit to their argument, what happened
would not be fair and reasonable, given that he has been penalised for the timing of the
refund, which would be out of his control.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr T that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Sainsburys have investigated his
complaint, such as the contents of his final response letter dont come under my powers to
consider. But I can look into the poor customer service that Mr T received from Sainsburys.
Ive had a look at the terms and conditions of Mr Ts credit card to see if Sainsburys havemade an error in how theyve applied the refund credit. And Im not persuaded they have
made an error and Ill explain why.
Section 2.3 of the terms and conditions state If you do not pay off the full outstanding
balance each month, we will use any payments that you make to us to pay off the
transactions that appear on your statements starting with those transactions on which we
charge the highest rate of interest. We'll then pay off transactions charged at the next
highest rate and so on down to the lowest rate of interest. If the payment you make is not
enough to pay off all of the transactions at a particular interest rate then we'll pay off the
transactions in the following order:
a. cash advances;
b. purchases;
c. money transfers;
d. balance transfers; and
e. default sums.
So Ive looked at Mr Ts credit card statements around the time the refund was credited to
his account, to see whether the above clause would have been applied or whether another
section should have applied. Mr Ts statements show that he does not pay the full
outstanding balance each month. I must be clear that Mr T appears to have paid the
outstanding purchase balance off each month prior to the refund being credited to his
account. But this is not the same as paying the full outstanding balance each month as Mr T
generally had a £1,030 outstanding balance after he had made his monthly payment. So Im
satisfied that section 2.3 is the starting point here.
Section 2.3 is clear that they would pay off the transactions that appear on (Mr Ts)
statements. Mr Ts August credit card statement is dated 12 August 2021 and it has a
closing balance of £4,091.86 (including an outstanding purchase balance of £3,061.86). The
payment due date is 6 September 2021. When the refund credited his account, this was on
27 August 2021. As Mr T had not yet made his August statement payment, it appears the
£119 payment - in line with the terms and conditions, pa(id) off the transactions that appear
on (Mr Ts) statements starting with those transactions on which we charge the highest rate
of interest. So in line with section 2.3, as Mr T had no cash advances, this meant the £119
was paid against the outstanding purchases balance. As a result of this, it reduced the
outstanding balance for purchases from £3,061.86 to £2,942.86.
So when Mr T paid £3,061.86 which credited his account on 3 September, this payment first
of all paid the outstanding £2,942.86 for the purchases, and the remaining £119 was
allocated to the outstanding balance transfer showing on his statement (based on him not
paying off the full balance on his statement). Mr Ts did not have any money transfers, and
this is why it was allocated to the balance transfer. So Im persuaded that this is why his
outstanding balance transfer (and fee) decreased from £1,030 to £911 and not directly
because of the refund.
I do have sympathy for Mr Ts predicament which he found himself in here. I agree that he
would have no control over when the refund was credited to his account in the same way
that Sainsburys wouldnt have control over when it was credited. And hes also raised
whether it is fair and reasonable what happened. But I cant say that Sainsburys are at fault
here. Im persuaded that it was reasonable for Sainsburys to apply the payment in the way
they set out in the terms and conditions and they were fair to do this as they had clearly set
out how payments would be applied to his account.
Ive considered what Mr T has said about section 2.4 clearly stating that if you pay off more
than the amount shown on the statement it will be used to pay off transactions that have notyet appeared in the same order as those that do appear on the statement. But Mr T had not
paid more than his amount shown on his statement. As previously mentioned, his closing
balance was £4,091.86 and he paid £3,061.86, so this clause would not apply here and
thats why none of his payment paid off any transactions that had not yet appeared on his
statement.
Mr Ts September statement showed that he had a total outstanding balance of £2,207.57
for purchases. Mr T paid £2,088.57 on 7 October. So because he hadnt paid at least
£2,207.57, this is why he was charged interest, which Sainsburys were entitled to charge,
therefore I cant say Sainsburys have done anything wrong here and the refund had been
credited to his account over a month prior to Mr T making the payment on 7 October.
Ive considered the customer service which Mr T has had and Im persuaded that at times Mr
T did receive poor customer service. He asked Sainsburys relatively straight forward
questions, yet their answers were either incorrect or contradicted previous information given
to him. He also appeared to have wrong information in his final response letter. I say this
because the letter states the refund was applied to reduce the balance of his balance
transfer within the September statement. But Ive explained earlier in my decision the dates
and how the payments were applied. Im satisfied that these things have added to the
confusion of what happened. If Mr T was given clear answers from the outset, while he may
not have thought it was fair with what happened, at least he may have been able to
understand what happened, when and why.
So Ive considered what compensation would be reasonable here. Im persuaded that the
£50 Sainsburys credited to Mr Ts account was fair. I say this as this is broadly in line with
what I would have awarded if Sainsburys did not uphold this part of his complaint. Im
persuaded that this reflects Mr T being told wrong/conflicting information, but I cant agree
that Sainsburys have applied the refund to Mr Ts account incorrectly or charged him
interest incorrectly. So it follows I dont intend to ask Sainsburys to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Sainsburys accepted the provisional decision. Mr T responded to the provisional 
decision with a number of points. In summary he detailed a scenario which happened in the 
past with his Sainsburys credit card where the call handler he spoke to refunded interest 
which Mr T incurred due to a genuine error on his part. 
Mr T said that the only issue is whether Sainsburys were fair and reasonable as this is 
subjective, and he asked me to consider my provisional decision. He said that it was within 
Sainsburys gift to show discretion. He said at the time he paid the total balance he could not 
have been aware of the credit which caused the chain of events leading to his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr T has said regarding the past experiences of the customer service 
he has had with Sainsburys where they agreed to rectify what was a genuine error and 
refund him interest. But here, I can only focus on the merits of Mr Ts complaint that he 
brought to our service and not what has happened in the past. This is because the 
circumstances of his previous issue may not be similar to the issue faced here and/or 
Sainsburys may have changed their business practises which our service would have no 
control over.
Ive considered what Mr T has said about whether Sainsburys were being fair and reasonable, and this is subjective. But my role is impartial - that means I have to be fair to 
both sides. So it would not be fair to order Sainsburys to take action when they had acted in 
line with their terms and conditions and applied the payments in line with how they set out 
they would. I wasnt persuaded that Sainsburys were fair in how they responded to Mr Ts 
questions, as their answers were either incorrect or contradicted previous information given 
to him. But I do think its reasonable that they recognised the impact this would have on Mr T 
and credited £50 to his account to apologise for what happened here. 
Ive also considered what Mr T has said about at the time he paid the total balance he could 
not have been aware of the credit which caused the chain of events leading to his complaint. 
But as I said in my provisional decision I do have sympathy for Mr Ts predicament which he 
found himself in here. I agree that he would have no control over when the refund was 
credited to his account in the same way that Sainsburys wouldnt have control over when it 
was credited. And hes also raised whether it is fair and reasonable what happened. But I 
cant say that Sainsburys are at fault here. Im persuaded that it was reasonable for 
Sainsburys to apply the payment in the way they set out in the terms and conditions and 
they were fair to do this as they had clearly set out how payments would be applied to his 
account.
In summary, Mr Ts response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr T will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman