DRN-4062493
The complaint
Mrs H complains St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) hasnt completed adequate 
repairs to her property following a subsidence claim under her home insurance policy. 
Any reference to St Andrews includes the actions of its agents. As Mrs H is being 
represented on this complaint, any reference to Mrs H includes her representatives 
comments. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened. 
Mrs H has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by St Andrews.
St Andrews agreed to repair damage to Mrs Hs property which has been caused by 
subsidence. 
Following the repairs, Mrs H complained to St Andrews, saying: the wooden floor 
hadnt been cut flush around the hearth; beading had been used to disguise gaps; 
thresholds were trip-hazards; 6mm ply had been fitted when it wasnt there before. 
St Andrew offered Mrs H the following options:
- St Andrews contractor completes the repairs.
- Mrs H submits a quote for her own contractor to repair the floor.
- St Andrews provides Mrs H with a cash settlement based on what it would 
cost its contractor to repair the floor.
St Andrews also acknowledged it could have been clearer when explaining it would 
only repair the floor, not replace it and so, paid Mrs H £100 compensation.
Mrs H didnt consider any of the options to be fair and said the floor needed to be 
pulled up and laid again. So, she wants St Andrews to cover the cost of own 
contractor doing the works.
Unhappy, Mrs H brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it 
and didnt uphold it. Because Mrs H disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me 
for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs H considers St Andrews to have completed 
sub-standard repairs, and the parties disagree on how to progress the claim. 
St Andrews say the floor was laid in accordance with manufacturing guidance and 
that it wasnt fitted poorly  its said this was corroborated by Mrs Hs contractor who 
said using beading was standard practice. Mrs H says she didnt have beading 
around the hearth before, and so, is unhappy St Andrews contractor added it to 
disguise a gap. 
So, what I need to consider is whether the proposed remedies St Andrews has put 
forward are fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The starting point is the policy document which says: depending on the extent and 
type of damage, [St Andrews] can rebuild, repair, or replace your things, or give you 
a cash payment. In other words, St Andrews can choose how it wants to settle the 
claim.
St Andrews has offered to either: complete the repairs to the floor; pay a cash 
settlement (at the rate it would cost its contractors to carry out the repairs); consider 
a quote from Mrs Hs contractor to repair the floor  all of which Im satisfied its 
entitled to do under the terms of the policy.  
As St Andrews contractor carried out the initial repairs, its fair its given the 
opportunity to put things right. But Mrs H has said she doesnt want the same 
contractor because shes experienced other problems with the quality of their work. 
In circumstances like this, I would ordinarily need to consider whether St Andrews 
ought to provide a cash settlement, but its already offered to do so.
Because St Andrews has offered to repair the floor, its not required to pay Mrs H 
more than what it would have cost it to put things right. Insurers are often able to 
carry out repairs at a lower cost because they have pre-agreed rates with 
contractors. And so, its not unusual for the settlement amount to be lower than what 
the policyholder would pay if they instructed their own contractor to do the same 
work. 
Here, however, St Andrews has also given Mrs H the option of providing a quote for 
her own contractor to do the repair. I understand Mrs H has experienced difficulties in 
sourcing a contractor who is prepared to carry out the repairs, but Im not persuaded 
thats something St Andrews can reasonably be held responsible for.  
Whilst I appreciate Mrs H says the floor needs to be pulled up and laid again, I 
havent been provided with evidence which persuades me St Andrews solution of 
repairing the affected area wont put Mrs H back in the position she was before the 
damage (caused by the subsidence) occurred. And so, I dont consider it fair to ask 
St Andrews to cover Mrs Hs contractors cost to relay the floor.
St Andrews has apologised for not giving Mrs H clear information about whether it 
would repair or replace the flooring. Understandably, this would have been frustrating 
for Mrs H but, Im satisfied the compensation paid reasonably reflects the difficulties 
she experienced  and so, I wont be asking St Andrews to pay an additional 
amount.
To sum up, Im satisfied the options provided by St Andrews to progress Mrs Hs 
claim are reasonable in the circumstances. So, Ill leave it with Mrs H to decide which 
of these she wants to accept.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman