DRN-4228631
The complaint
Mr G complains about credit granted to him by Euphoria Finance Limited.
What happened
Euphoria agreed credit for Mr G in April 2021 to finance a car. The cash price of the car was
£5,995. Mr G paid a deposit of £500 and borrowed £5,495. The total amount owed under the
agreement came to £11,907 including interest and fees. Mr G paid a document fee of £250
and the remainder was to be repaid in 59 instalments of £184.70 and a final payment of
£259.70.
The credit was granted under a hire purchase agreement. This meant Euphoria remained
the owner of the car until the credit was repaid. Mr G has met his repayments to date and
has paid £5,182.80 in total as of the 31 May 2023.
Mr G complained to Euphoria that the repayments werent affordable and it should have
realised that when it assessed his application, given his credit record. He said that he had
significant existing debt at the time with three active county court judgements. Mr G said that
hes fallen behind with his priority debts trying to keep up the repayments and has borrowed
from friends and family.
Euphoria didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said that it carried out reasonable and
proportionate checks to ensure the agreement was affordable for Mr G. These included
checking his wage slips, bank statements and his credit record.
Mr G referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. They didnt
recommend that it be upheld because it seemed Mr G would have enough disposable
income to meet his repayments.
Mr G didnt agree with this recommendation. He asked for his complaint to come to an
ombudsman for a review and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 22 June 2023 
explaining why I planned to uphold Mr Gs complaint and setting out my proposals for putting 
things right for him. This is my final decision on the matter and will be legally binding on both 
parties should Mr G choose to accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have let me know that theyve accepted my provisional decision and have 
nothing further to add. Having reconsidered everything again and having no further comment 
or information to consider, my view of the complaint remains unchanged. For completeness, 
Ill set out my reasons for upholding it again in this final decision on the matter.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Euphoria lent to Mr G. Its rules
and guidance said that before agreeing credit for him, Euphoria needed to check that he
could afford to meet his repayments out of his usual means, without having to borrow
further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The
assessment needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount and
term, for example) and to Mr Gs particular circumstances. Euphoria needed to give
proper regard to the outcome of that assessment in respect of affordability risk.
Ultimately, Euphoria needed to treat Mr G fairly and take full account of his interests when
making its lending decision. It would not be lending fairly if it targeted customers with
regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their indebtedness,
poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Euphoria complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Gs application to satisfy itself that he would be
able to make his repayments sustainably? If not, what would reasonable and
proportionate checks have shown? Would this information have led to the credit being
declined? Ultimately, did Euphoria make a fair lending decision?
Euphoria provided the information it relied on which included a copy of Mr Gs credit file,
his bank statements and evidence of his income. The credit file information showed that
Mr G had existing debts of £10,300. These included a hire purchase agreement and
seven credit card accounts. Mr G had defaulted on two of these  one in 2015, the other
in 2019. In addition, Mr G had three active county court judgements: £1,675 was awarded
against him in 2015; £4,581 in 2016 and £8,231 a few months earlier in January 2021.
Mr G had two jobs at the time. He was employed by a company and received a wage
and he was self-employed and charged for his time. Euphoria checked Mr Gs recent
payslip from his employer (dated 13 March) and a recent invoice hed submitted in his
self-employed role (dated 21 March). It said the former showed a net pay of £879.20 and
the latter a credit balance of £275. Euphoria listed Mr Gs current account balances in its
final response to him which suggests to me it considered deposits into his account other
than the above income when making its lending decision. Mr Gs current account had a
balance of over £3,300 in mid-March 2021. Euphoria said it concluded that the finance
would be affordable for Mr G because his discretionary spending was sufficient to cover
the monthly payments without experiencing financial difficulty.
I think Euphoria gathered a reasonable level of evidence to check if Mr G could afford his
repayments but I think the information should have caused it concern for two reasons.
Firstly, while Mr Gs account showed a relatively high balance this was primarily because of
two deposits  a £2,000 deposit on 19 February from the local county council and £1,000
from a personal bank account on 12 March. I dont think Euphoria should have considered
these funds as part of Mr Gs usual means without further investigation. Secondly, I think
there were indications in the information Euphoria had that Mr G was overindebted and had
ongoing difficulty managing his debt. As mentioned, he had a recent judgement for over
£8,000 and had other debts in addition to those showing on his credit file including one with
a short term high cost lender. Altogether, I think Euphoria should have looked into Mr Gs
circumstances further before lending to him.
Mr G told us that the money from the council was from the governments income support
scheme for self-employed people during the pandemic. He also told us that his late mother
left him an amount of £2,200 and the £1,000 transfer to his account was part-payment of
this. I dont think Euphoria should have taken these deposits into account as it seems they 
were one-off payments.
The invoice Euphoria relied on showed that Mr G was paid for work which was specific to
schools. Mr G told us that his self-employed contract work didnt cover the school holidays,which seems plausible. Ive noted payments to HMRC on the statements so any payments
into the account from this source were likely to include tax. Euphoria saw two payslips which
showed that Mr Gs wages from his paid employment fluctuated, being £618 and £879 in
February and March 2021 respectively. So I think Mr Gs usual income came to less than the
figures Euphoria relied on.
I havent seen an estimate of Mr Gs expenses from Euphoria. Ive estimated that his usual
expenses came to about £1,100 a month based on the bank statements. This figure includes
rent at £320, bills at £290, debt repayments at £140 and food (supermarket shops) and
petrol at about £350. I think its more likely than not that Mr G would struggle to meet his
repayments for this finance out of his usual means. Euphoria should have suspected this
from the information it had and would likely have confirmed this through a proportionate
check.
Mr G told us that his debts at the time amounted to over £25,000. Hes provided statements
for five accounts with a national debt collector amounting to over £20,000. Mr G provided
evidence of his council tax arrears at the time and his current arrears with his rent and
heating bills. I think Euphoria didnt treat Mr G fairly and with full regard to his interests when 
it agreed this finance for him as it should have seen that he was overindebted and further 
debt was likely to contribute to his financial difficulties.
Altogether, I think Euphoria was irresponsible to enter into the agreement with Mr G.
I understand that Mr G has kept up his repayments to date. He says that he struggled to
meet his repayments when the money hed inherited was spent and he borrowed money
from friends and family to cover the payments. A recent copy of his credit file shows that 
Mr Gs opened another five credit card accounts since the agreement began and, as
mentioned, hes in arrears with his rent and heating bills. While Mr G successfully met his
repayments I dont think in this case that he managed to do so without borrowing from
elsewhere and while meeting his existing commitments. I think the agreement had an
adverse impact on him and Euphoria needs to take steps to put things right.
Putting things right
The cash price of the car was £5,995 and the total amount owed under the agreement came
to £11,907. So far (as of May 2023) Mr G has repaid £5,182.80, including his deposit of 
£500 and the document fee of £250.
Our usual way of putting things right where credit has been irresponsibly agreed is that the
borrower should repay the capital borrowed, as theyve had the use of this, but should not be
liable for any interest or charges owed under the agreement. If Mr G had repaid more than
the cash price of the car, for example, Id likely direct Euphoria to refund any overpayments
and transfer ownership of the car to him.
In this case, Mr G has almost repaid the money he borrowed (£5,495) and is a few payments
away from fully repaying the cash price of the car. I think it would be fair and reasonable in
the circumstances of this case to cap the amount Mr G needs to repay under the agreement
at the cash price of the car and to transfer ownership of the car to Mr G when this amount is
paid.
In summary, Euphoria should now:
Cap the total amount owed under the agreement to the cash price of the car, in other 
words £5,995; Consider all payments Mr G made under the agreement as payments towards this 
cash price; 
Treat Mr G sympathetically and fairly if he is unable to sustainably keep up his 
repayments at the current level and come to an affordable repayment plan with him 
for the outstanding balance; 
Transfer ownership of the car to Mr G once the balance (of £5,995) has been paid; 
Remove all adverse information about this account from Mr Gs credit file up to the 
point the complaint is resolved.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about Euphoria Finance 
Limited and it now needs to put things right for him as Ive said. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman