DRN-4460097
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money he lost when he 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In early 2023, Mr B was looking to book some flights and clicked on an advert for a travel 
company he saw online. He filled in his details and received an email from someone 
claiming to work for the travel company, with an offer for flight tickets. Mr B phoned the 
company and was happy with the price for the tickets, so made a payment of £657 from his 
Nationwide account via a money transfer service to pay for them  as the person he spoke 
to directed him to.
Shortly after it was made, Mr B received a call from Nationwide asking about the payment. 
And after discussing it, they both agreed Mr B had likely been the victim of a scam and so a 
claim was raised with Nationwides fraud team.
Nationwide investigated but said Mr B has authorised the payment, so it couldnt have 
cancelled it or stopped it being paid. It tried to recover the money but said, as the payment 
was sent via a money transfer service that had correctly transferred the money, there was 
nothing further it could do. It did offer to pay Mr B £100 as compensation for delays in its 
response to his claim though.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response. He said the payment was still showing as 
pending on his account after he spoke with Nationwide, so it should have stopped the 
payment being made at that point. And he referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said Nationwide couldnt have 
stopped the payment after it had been authorised, even though it was still showing as 
pending. And they didnt think there was anything further it could have done to recover the 
money. So they didnt think Nationwide should have to refund the money Mr B had lost. They 
also said the compensation Nationwide had offered was fair. Mr B disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Mr B 
accepts he made the payment here. So while I recognise he didnt intend for the money to 
go to scammers, he did authorise the payment. And so the starting position in law is that 
Nationwide was obliged to follow his instructions and make the payment. So Mr B isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, sets out requirements for banks 
to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether Nationwide should have identified that Mr B was 
potentially at risk of financial harm from fraud as a result of this payment.
But while I appreciate Mr B says the amount of this payment is a substantial amount for him, 
it wasnt of a large enough amount to meet the point at which we would usually expect a 
bank to identify a payment as suspicious based on its size alone. It was also a single 
payment, so wasnt part of a pattern of payments that we might expect a bank to identify as 
suspicious. I wouldnt necessarily expect a bank to identify a payment to a money transfer 
service as suspicious, even though Mr B hadnt used one before, as these are genuine 
services and its not uncommon for banking customers to use them for infrequent one-off 
payments. And I dont think there was anything else about the payment that made it 
particularly suspicious.
So I dont think its unreasonable that Nationwide didnt identify that Mr B might be at risk of 
financial harm as a result of the payment, and didnt intervene to carry out any additional 
checks before allowing it to go through. I dont think its unreasonable that Nationwide just 
followed Mr Bs instructions and made the payment.
Mr B has said Nationwide must have identified something suspicious about the payment, as 
it called him shortly afterwards to ask about it. Hes said the payment was still showing as 
pending on his account at that point. So, as he then agreed hed likely been the victim of a 
scam, he says Nationwide should have stopped the payment and that it acted incorrectly in 
allowing a payment it knew was fraudulent to be made. But I dont agree Nationwide could 
have stopped the payment at the point it called him.
Payments made out of someones account, particularly card payments, will often not be 
made immediately. There may be a delay of up to a few days before the company the 
payment was made to claims the money. But the bank cant stop a payment after it has been 
authorised. And while the payment hadnt left Mr Bs account when Nationwide called him, it 
had already been authorised. So Nationwide couldnt stop it, even though it then became 
aware of the scam.
And so I dont think Nationwide made an error here. I dont think there was anything it could 
have done to stop or cancel the payment at this point.
Mr B has also questioned why Nationwide contacted him if there was nothing it could do to 
stop the payment at that point. But, from Nationwides records, it appears it was contacting him to check that he had authorised the payment. While it was too late to stop the payment 
being made, if Mr B had not authorised the payment it would be Nationwides responsibility 
to refund him itself for allowing an unauthorised payment to leave his account. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to have contacted him to check this. But Mr B had 
authorised the payment, so I wouldnt expect Nationwide to refund him on this basis.
Ive also considered whether Nationwide did enough to try to recover the money Mr B lost. 
Once they have been notified of a scam, we expect businesses to take reasonable steps to 
try to recover any money their customers have lost  including making use of any available 
chargeback scheme.
A chargeback is a process by which card payments can be disputed with the merchant who 
took the payment  which in Mr Bs case is the money transfer service. But it wasnt the 
money transfer service here who scammed Mr B. The money transfer service didnt do 
anything wrong and appears to have just transferred the money as he requested. So while 
Nationwide attempted a chargeback, the money transfer service defended it and showed it 
had carried out the transfer as requested. So I dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably in 
not taking the chargeback any further.
Any attempt Nationwide made to recover the money directly from the banks it was sent to 
would also likely have been unsuccessful, for the same reasons. The recovery attempt 
would have gone to the bank of the money transfer service, who hadnt done anything 
wrong. And so I dont think anything we would reasonably have expected Nationwide to do 
would have recovered the money Mr B lost.
I sympathise with the position Mr B has found himself in. He has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Nationwide has acted unreasonably or that anything 
I would reasonably have expected it to do would have prevented this scam or recovered the 
money he lost.
Nationwide has offered to pay Mr B £100 as compensation for the delays and poor customer 
service he received during his claim. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think this offer 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont think it would be fair to require 
Nationwide to pay anything further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and require Nationwide Building Society to:
Pay Mr B a total of £100 compensation, if it has not already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman