DRN-2208146
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has 
offered and paid to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out alongside a credit card account.
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card with Barclays in May 1999 and the application form shows that 
he also selected to take out a PPI policy at the same time. 
Mr B complained to Barclays that the PPI had been mis-sold. Barclays agreed to uphold his 
complaint and offered him £898.28 in compensation after tax. Barclays only has limited 
records about the PPI, mostly on its computer system. They do have a copy of the credit 
card application and screenshots showing the PPI premiums started in June 1999 and 
ended in August 2000. But it has no actual data of what was paid for the PPI.
Barclays based the offer of compensation on what it calls an average offer, which is worked 
out looking at data it has for other consumers with a similar account during a similar period. 
Here the period was taken as from 1999 to 2000.
 
Mr B wasnt happy with the offer. Barclays wasnt able to provide evidence of who cancelled 
the PPI in August 2000 so Mr B believes Barclays should assume the PPI ran until January 
2004 when the credit card account closed. Mr B himself has no documents or evidence to 
show what he actually may have paid or how long the PPI was on his account. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service when Barclays refused to pay compensation on 
the basis the PPI was active until 2004.
Our adjudicator said the compensation Barclays had offered was fair. Mr B remained 
unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed to uphold Mr Bs s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Therefore, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking 
at what is fair compensation to settle this complaint. 
Mr B has raised a number of concerns, including about Subject Access Requests he has 
made to Barclays. I cannot however consider these and how Barclays handles such 
requests. That would have to be taken up separately with the Information Commissioner 
Office. In this decision I am only looking the compensation that Barclays has offered for the 
mis-sold PPI. 
Barclays does not have full records of the credit card account, it only has some computer 
records about the account, which isnt surprising considering the account and PPI were both 
taken out over 20 years ago. Legally businesses are only required to keep full records for six 
years.
A copy of the credit card application has been provided by Barclays, and this indicates that 
Mr B did tick the box to select to take out the PPI when the application form was completed 
in May 1999. 
The computer records Barclays has about the account indicate that the PPI premiums were 
only charged from June 1999 until August 2000. The records also show the credit card 
account was closed in January 2004. 
Barclays has no evidence on file to show who cancelled the PPI or why. But the only 
evidence available from the screenshots indicates that no PPI was charged after August 
2000. Without clear evidence of who cancelled the PPI Mr B says it is unfair to say the PPI 
was cancelled in 2000 and it should be assumed it ran until the credit card account was 
closed in January 2004. Mr B hasnt disputed that the account did close in January 2004, as 
shown on the records available.
Mr B says he didnt know he had PPI on his account and so he would never have cancelled 
the policy. However, he did select to take out the PPI policy on the application form. Also the 
charges whilst the PPI was active, would have appeared on his credit card statements each 
month. So at the time he should have been aware the PPI was on his account. 
As Ive indicated already, this all occurred over 20 years ago, so the business doesnt have 
full records of the account and memories do fade with time, so Mr B may not recall the 
situation fully. Its possible at the time he did choose to cancel the policy having seen the 
regular charges on his statements.
However, there is no clear evidence as to why the policy was cancelled, and with no other 
evidence than the computer records of Barclays, an assumption has to be made as to what 
is mostly likely to be the case. And in the absence of any other evidence, I think it is 
reasonable to take the dates from the computer records as an accurate indication of when 
the PPI was active on the account.
I know Mr B says it is for the business to prove what lies behind its records, but here we are 
trying to resolve a dispute on the basis of what evidence is available from both parties, what 
is most likely to have happened based on that evidence and what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. And the only evidence available is from the computer records.
So I am satisfied that based on the evidence I have seen, the PPI ran from June 1999 to 
August 2000. As there is no data at all about what was actually paid for the PPI costs then it 
is fair that Barclays makes an average offer based on what other consumers who had similar 
accounts may have paid over a similar period. And that results in an offer of £898.28 for the 
compensation after tax.
During his complaint Mr B has also raised concerns that he made a complaint in 2012 about 
this PPI but was told he didnt have any on his account. Barclays has indicated is has no 
record of receiving that complaint, the earliest it was aware of Mr Bs complaint being in 
2019, when he raised the complaint through a solicitors firm. The payment of the 
compensation has been paid to Mr Bs representative by bank transfer.No evidence has been provided by Mr B showing he did make a complaint in 2012 and 
received a response. He could at that time have brought his complaint to this service to 
investigate if he was unhappy the response received. 
But Mr B did receive a response when the complaint was raised I 2019 and he has received 
additional compensatory interest until the payment of the compensation was made in 2020, 
which was more compensatory interest than would have been due in 2012.
 
In summary, I think the approach of Barclays in making the offer of compensation for the 
mis-sold PPI is fair in the circumstances of this case and its offer and payment of £898.28 
after tax for the compensation amount is also fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I think the compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
offered and paid to Mr B for the mis-sold PPI is fair. Therefore, I am not upholding this 
complaint that any more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman