DRN-4350861
The complaint
Mr C says Compare The Market Limited (CTML) used the wrong start date for his pet 
insurance policy, resulting in a declined claim for his dog.  
What happened
Mr C applied for a pet insurance policy using CTMLs website. He says he wanted the policy 
to start on 3 June 2023, but this was delayed until 3 July. This resulted in a declined claim 
for treatment his dog needed. His insurer advised that his claim fell within the policys 14 day 
no claims period. 
Mr C says hes disabled. This affects his sight and the use of his hands, amongst other 
issues. He says CTML has indirectly discriminated against him, and its website doesnt 
adjust for his disabilities. He says this is why the wrong start date was used for his policy. 
In its final complaint response CTML says it conveyed the correct start date to the insurer. It 
says this is the date Mr C had chosen. CTML says Mr C was informed that he should check 
all details are correct, before proceeding with the insurance. It doesnt think it did anything 
wrong. 
Mr C didnt think hed been treated fairly by CTML and referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says Mr C had chosen the start date of 3 
July 2023. She didnt think CTML had failed to provide a reasonable adjustment once it was 
aware of Mr Cs needs. It did this by increasing the font size in its correspondence. Our 
investigator noted that CTMLs website has a zoom function. She says customers requiring 
a larger font can use this function. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with our investigators response. He says she failed to consider the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable 
customers. In addition, shed failed to consider whether hed experienced indirect 
discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. 
Our investigator responded to say it isnt our role to determine whether a breach of the 
Equality Act 2010 had occurred. She explained our role is to consider whats fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of a complaint. Having considered what the law says, 
she didnt think CTML had treated Mr C unfairly on the grounds of his disability. 
Mr C maintained that hed been treated unfairly and asked for an ombudsman to consider 
his complaint.    
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Im sorry to hear of his dog has been ill 
this must be a very difficult time for him. But Ill explain why I think my decision is fair.  
Ive looked at the information CTML provided. This includes a screenshot of the question Mr 
C was asked. It says, Within the next 30 days, when would you like cover to start?. Next to 
the question is a calendar. CTML explains that Mr C had to input the date by clicking on the 
month of his choice, and then selecting the relevant day.
Based on this evidence Mr C selected 3 July 2023 as the start date for his policy. This wasnt 
auto populated or an error on CTMLs part.  
CTML isnt the insurer here. It operates the website Mr C used to apply for his pet insurance. 
We expect the questions asked on CTMLs website to be clear. And that it accurately 
conveys the responses provided to the insurer. Based on the evidence provided, Im 
satisfied CTMLs question was clear, and it passed on Mr Cs response, to his insurer, 
correctly.
Ive thought about Mr Cs disabilities and his view that CTML have discriminated against him, 
under the Equality Act 2010 and the FCAs guidelines on vulnerable customers. He says this 
is because its website is difficult to see, and use, because of his disabilities. This makes it 
easy to make a mistake when filling in an application. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have the power to determine whether 
discrimination has occurred or whether there has been a breach of the Equality Act 2010. 
Only a Court can do that. But Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding Mr 
Cs complaint  given that its relevant law  as well as the FCA guidance  when deciding 
whats fair and reasonable. If Mr C wants a decision that CTML has breached the Equality 
Act 2010, he may be able to pursue this in court.
I note from Mr Cs initial submission to our service that he says CTML made a mistake and 
informed his insurer of the wrong start date. In his later correspondence he says even if this 
was his mistake, a fault with his insurers hub prevented him logging in to check the details 
were correct. 
As discussed, Im satisfied it was Mr Cs mistake when inputting the wrong start date. If he 
has concerns about not being able to access his insurers hub (and not being able to check 
the information he submitted when applying for the policy), this is something he needs to 
raise with it directly. This isnt something CTML is responsible for, so I wont consider this 
point here. 
Ive considered whether CTML treated Mr C fairly, given his disabilities. When using its 
website Mr C says issues with his manual dexterity and his sight were a problem. He says 
the website isnt user friendly for disabled people like him. Mr C explains its easy for 
someone with his disabilities to touch the screen in the wrong place or, the wrong way by a 
few millimetres. The wrong information will then be sent to the insurer. 
CTML says once it was made aware of Mr Cs disability, it increased the font size on its 
correspondence. It says customers can also use the zoom function when browsing its 
website. 
Ive looked at CTMLs website to understand the support available. 
The home page contains a link to CTMLs, Customer Support Hub. Clicking on this link 
takes you to a page providing information and support. An Accessibility link is provided on 
this page. This explains the work CTML is doing to make its website meet the required standards for the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.1. It says whilst 
this work is ongoing, help is currently available in the form of:
Keyboard-only access; Voice controls, Magnification, Screen reader support, and Clearer 
words and links. 
I can see that the website can be magnified up to 500%. I was able to use this function on a 
laptop. Although I cant see where on the website it explains how to do this. I note Mr C says 
he was using a tablet when making his application, so this may have been more difficult for 
him. 
I cant see that Mr C contacted CTML if he was struggling to read its webpage for his 
insurance application. I wouldve thought a reasonable person would do so if support was 
needed. I cant see that he made his disabilities known, until after his insurance claim was 
declined and so CTML didnt know he required help.  
Ive considered what the Equality Act 2010, and the FCA guidelines on what vulnerable 
customers say. This includes what the Equality Act 2010 says about indirect discrimination. I 
note Mr C has specifically highlighted this aspect of the law. But having done so I dont think 
CTML treated Mr C unfairly. In the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for CTML to have a calendar on its website for Mr C to refer to and input the date 
hed like the insurance to start from. And once the date from the calendar is selected, the 
date automatically appears in a separate box so that it can be viewed and checked.
Im very sorry that Mr Cs dog requires treatment, and that this isnt covered by his insurance 
policy. But Im not persuaded that CTML is responsible for this, or that it has treated Mr C 
unfairly. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman