DRN-1563289
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of each sale as 
Cheltenham and Gloucester) mis-sold them two mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs T bought a MPPI policy which started in March 1999 to protect their mortgage 
repayments. The policy was sold during a meeting with an advisor from Lloyds. Mr and Mrs 
T were covered against accident, sickness and unemployment as joint policy holders.
Mr and Mrs T took out a further advance in July 2000 along with a new MPPI policy to cover 
the additional repayment amounts. The policy was again a joint one between Mr and Mrs T. 
The mortgage and MPPI policy ended in April 2004.  
Mr and Mrs T believe Lloyds mis-sold both of the MPPI policies. They say on each occasion 
they were told by Lloyds that they had to have the MPPI if they also wanted the mortgage or 
further advance. They also dont think the insurance was explained in detail to them in 
either of the meetings.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs T dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint because of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the insurance was presented to Mr and Mrs T during  the 
two meetings they had with Lloyds when they were sold MPPI policies. Mr and Mrs 
T have provided their recollections as to what happened on each occasion. These 
recollections are not detailed as such but this is understandable seen as a lot of time 
has passed since these meetings took place. 
 
I have needed to look further at the sales documentation to help me understand what 
more likely than not happened during these meetings. After considering the 
documentation provided and what I know of how Lloyds sold policies at the time of 
each sale, i think it is most likely that they were advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect their mortgage and further advance repayments, and they 
took the policies on that advice.
 
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation from each sale that 
I have suggests to me that the policies were presented as optional. I can see on a 
sales document called a C&G Protection Plus Proposal Form that on each occasion 
Mr and Mrs T signed separately for the insurance. When these forms were being 
completed, it seems to me that some discussion most likely would have been had 
around the suitability of having each policy, rather than it be put across as a 
compulsory requirement that Mr and Mrs T had to have it. I think it is most likely they 
were given a choice and advised on what type of policy they wanted and how the 
benefit would be split between Mr and Mrs T (on each occasion it was 60% to Mr T 
and 40% to Mrs T). So I don't uphold their complaint on this point.
 
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended MPPI on the two occasions in March 1999 
and July 2000 to Mr and Mrs T (rather than sell the policies as a compulsory 
requirement). But it doesnt look as if the policies were unsuitable for Mr and Mrs T 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances on each of the sales dates. They say 
they both had reasonable sick pay (Mr T had 6 months full and 6 months half 
whereas Mrs T had 3 months full sick pay at the time of either sale). But the benefits 
provided by the policies would have paid out in addition to this amount over an 
extended period, in a difficult time. Mr and Mrs T didnt have enough provisions that I 
can see at the time of sale that would have meant they wouldnt have had at least 
some use of the benefit offered by Mr and Mrs T having the cover. I can also see no 
other reasons such as a significant or restrictive term that would make the policies 
unsuitable. Mr T did have a medical condition at the time of each sale, but it doesn't 
look like this would have made the policy unsuitable for him, as it didn't affect his day 
to day life.
 
I can see from the sales documentation that Mr and Mrs T were clearly provided with 
the costs associated with the two policies. They were reasonably priced compared to 
similar policies available at the time and to the monthly mortgage and further 
advances repayments. And Mr and Mrs T could have cancelled the policies at any 
time if any of them did become unaffordable. Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would 
have avoided protecting their repayments given the serious consequences of 
defaulting on a debt secured against their home.
 
Its possible Lloyds didn't point out the main things the policies didn't cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs T wouldve been affected by any of these based on 
their circumstances at the time of each sale. Mr T had a fixed term contract at the 
time of the first sale, but it looks like he would have been able to claim benefit if 
needed so i don't think further information about the policy would have changed Mr 
and Mrs T's mind about taking out the policy because of this. 
 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, but on balance, I do not uphold 
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
 
my final decisionI dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman