DRN-2931646
The complaint
Mr R complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include its assessors, repairers and others insofar as I hold 
Admiral responsible for their actions.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a car first registered in 2013. For the year from June 
2020, Mr R had it insured on a comprehensive policy with Admiral .
On 31 October 2020, a third partys vehicle hit Mr Rs parked car, which suffered damage 
along the nearside. Mr R identified the third party.
On 13 November 2020, Admiral said the repair costs were estimated at about £8,500.00 so 
it was uneconomical to repair the car.
On 27 November 2020, Admiral told Mr R the third partys insurer had accepted liability, and 
Mr Rs  no claims bonus would not be affected.
On 5 December 2020, Admiral authorised an estimate from Mr Rs own repairer. That 
repairer did the repairs and Admiral paid for them. Admiral did not ask Mr R to pay the policy 
excess.
Mr R complained to Admiral that it had mishandled his claim.
By a final response dated late February 2021, Admiral turned down the complaint. Unhappy 
with that, Mr R brought his complaint to us in April 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Admiral had treated Mr R unfairly.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Admiral claimed the car was uneconomical to repair by over-inflating the cost of 
repairs and by including cost of works that did not need to be carried out. By doing 
this they reached a decision that is not in the best interests of the customer, and he 
also considers it to be fraudulent behaviour due to the impact it would have on the 
third party and the third party's insurers. 
For instance, the costs included replacing the wheels: this was un-necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would expect an insurance company to assess the likely condition and value of a vehicle 
before the accident damage. I would expect the insurance company to assess the cost of 
repairing the vehicle to a similar condition insofar as possible. That would include, for 
example, repairing cosmetic scratches as well as more serious damage.
I would expect an insurance company to write off a vehicle where the estimated cost of such 
repair exceeded a percentage (e.g. 70%) of the pre-accident value.
Ive compared Admirals repair estimate of about £8,500.00 with Mr Rs repairers estimate of 
about £3,390.00. The difference in the figures is striking. 
But, looking at, for example, the nearside wheels, Ive seen from the photographs that there 
was accident damage. Admirals estimate included one new wheel and two new tyres. Mr 
Rs repairer included only an alloy refurb. Mr R hasnt shown that Admiral was wrong and 
his repairer was right.
I consider that Mr R has fallen short of showing that Admirals estimate was inflated, let 
alone fraudulent.
He has worked hard to avoid his car being written off. In doing so, he has saved money for 
the third partys insurer.
But I havent found that Admiral did anything wrong. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Admiral to pay Mr R compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman