DRN-3137876
The complaint
Mr M complains that although he told Barclays Bank UK PLC about his gambling addiction in 
early 2021, they did nothing to help him control his gambling. Mr M would like Barclays to 
refund his gambling transactions because, he says, if Barclays had helped him there 
wouldnt have been any.
What happened
Throughout March and April 2021 Mr M spent almost £9,000 on betting and lottery 
transactions from his Barclays current account. He says he made Barclays aware as early 
as March 2021 that he wasnt in a position to make financial decisions and thought his 
account would be monitored by them.
In May 2021 Mr M complained to Barclays that theyd let him gamble. He said hed asked for 
a block on his card around February or March 2021. Barclays then placed a block on his 
debit card; preventing most online gambling transactions. Barclays complaint handler 
accepted Mr Ms version of events and offered Mr M £100 for the block not being put in 
place when first requested.
Mr M initially accepted this outcome but complained again in July 2021 that Barclays refusal 
to refund the transactions wasnt good enough.
In July and August 2021 Barclays wrote to Mr M. They refused to refund his gambling 
transactions and said they thought theyd offered him appropriate support throughout. They 
agreed theyd spoken with him about his gambling, but said hed declined their offers of 
support and, in those circumstances, they were unable to prevent him from using the funds 
in his account for gambling. Although they found no bank error, they offered him another 
£100 to resolve things.
Mr M told us he thinks Barclays told him that theyd keep an eye on his account from March 
2021. He said hed begged them to block gambling transactions at that point, but they let 
him carry on.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She agreed with Barclays that theyd done 
nothing wrong by not applying a gambling block on Mr Ms card before 3 May 2021.
She said the evidence indicated Barclays had taken Mr Ms health and financial situation 
seriously and had tried to discuss Mr Ms gambling with him several times. But on each 
occasion, hed declined any help. She was satisfied that Barclays had done enough to make 
Mr M aware he could contact them if he ever did want to seek help for his gambling.
The investigator acknowledged that Mr M had thought Barclays would monitor his account 
and step in if he was getting into difficulty; but she didnt agree that was something Barclays 
should have done.
Mr M didnt accept this outcome. He said Barclays had told him theyd manage his account 
and so should have offered to put a block on his card when they saw his gambling 
transactions.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I understand that Mr M will be disappointed, Ive reached the 
same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I think Barclays did 
acknowledge and ask Mr M about his gambling transactions on a number of occasions in 
early 2021, but on each occasion Mr M declined to engage with Barclays about this. In short, 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Barclays should have done more to help Mr M before 
3 May 2021; I dont think Mr M was ready to accept help with his gambling before that date.
Mr M had a history of gambling and I can see that at a couple of points in 2020 Barclays 
offered him contacts for agencies that offer gambling addiction support, but hed declined.
Towards the end of 2020 and into the start of 2021 Mr M made lots of gambling transactions 
from his Barclays account. But when he contacted Barclays in January 2021 it wasnt to 
discuss gambling, but to dispute a direct debit to a telecoms company. When the telecoms 
company successfully defended the dispute, and the temporary credit Barclays had given 
him was reversed, Mr M contacted Barclays to say that the reversal had left him in financial 
difficulties.
Ive listened to a call between Mr M and Barclays customer support team which took place 
on 28 January 2021  during that conversation Barclays staff gave Mr M advice regarding 
accessing food and dealing with his utility bills. The agent also asked Mr M about his 
gambling transactions and said that if he needed support with this there were a few things 
the agent could suggest. But Mr M replied that hed already sought help and had now 
stopped gambling.
As for Barclays advising Mr M that theyd be monitoring his account from this point, I cant 
agree with Mr M that thats what was said. I think the agent told him that theyd add markers 
to his account so that staff would know when he called that he had financial difficulties and 
health issues, and that he was shielding due to the pandemic. I dont think there was any 
indication that theyd be watching out for gambling transactions or blocking them. Indeed, 
Mr M had just told them he didnt need any help with that.
There was little activity on Mr Ms account after that call, but on 23 March 2021 Barclays 
called Mr M to talk about his unauthorised overdraft (his account had been overdrawn by 
around £80 since the end of January 2021). When Mr M told Barclays hed recently been 
acutely unwell and was also seeing a mental health team, he was passed to their Specialist 
Support Team.
Ive listened to the call which took place between Mr M and Barclays on 23 March 2021. The 
Specialist Support Team agent spent some time talking with Mr M about his situation and 
refunded some account fees to bring the account within his £10 overdraft buffer. During the 
call the agent asked Mr M about his gambling transactions, but Mr M said hed stopped all 
betting now and had cancelled his account with a bookmaker.
Again, I dont agree that Barclays said theyd be monitoring Mr Ms account for gambling transactions going forwards. The agent only said that his account would be under the 
Specialist Support Team (given Mr Ms recent health problems) and gave him a direct dial 
number to use if he was struggling again.
Mr M went on to make a significant number of gambling transactions from his Barclays 
account between 25 March and 23 April 2021, totalling around £9,000. Given the low 
balance of his Barclays account, he regularly moved money in from elsewhere to fund the 
gambling; so, the account didnt go overdrawn again until the end of April.
Ive thought carefully about whether, during this period of gambling activity, Barclays should 
have done more to help Mr M, and Ive listened to a further call between Mr M and Barclays 
from 18 April 2021.
This call arose because Mr M wanted to dispute a payment to a retailer for £285. Mr M was 
disappointed that the agent couldnt approve an immediate refund of the disputed 
transaction, and during the conversation about what would happen next to investigate the 
alleged fraud, the agent asked Mr M about his gambling transactions  noting that there 
were a lot. Mr M said he was happy with these, and that he had funds in another account. 
When the agent asked if he was safe and had those payments under control, he said he 
was fine. Significantly, Mr M didnt say anything during this call to suggest he was unhappy 
hed been allowed to gamble since March, or that he thought Barclays had previously agreed 
to apply a block.
Overall, I think Barclays asked Mr M if he needed help several times, but Mr M denied any 
problem. In the circumstances, I dont think there was any indication that Mr M lacked 
capacity to make his own decisions about how he spent his funds; and I dont think it would 
have been reasonable of Barclays to infer a lack of capacity on the basis that Mr M told them 
he had some mental health issues. I also cant say that Barclays either promised to block his 
gambling transactions from March 2021, or that they should have done things differently 
before May 2021.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr M hoped for, and Im sorry for that. I recognise that Mr M 
has lost a substantial sum of money and that loss has caused him significant distress. And I 
am sorry to hear that he suffers with such a harmful compulsion to gamble. But Im unable to 
say that Barclays are responsible for his losses on this occasion, or that they should do more 
to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman