DRN-3741145
The complaint
Ms T complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) created confusion when it 
refunded a payment to her bank account, following a purchase of a tablet device and then 
re-debited this sum again a few days later. 
What happened
Ms T says she purchased a tablet device using her debit card, but the payment was 
refunded to her bank account which Ms T says she mistook for a benefit payment, so she 
spent the money. Ms T says she suffers from health issues which means that she can easily 
get confused and NatWests support team havent allowed for that, and she shouldnt be 
asked to pay the monies back. 
NatWest says the retailer took a few days to collect the payment following Ms Ts purchase, 
using her debit card and it is entitled to do this and NatWest says it has made no errors here. 
Ms T wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says although the retailer had taken three days to collect the payment that Ms T 
thought she had already paid for, that was acceptable, and NatWest had correctly followed 
the procedures for such payments and wasnt at fault here. 
The investigator didnt feel NatWest needed to take any further action.
Ms T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms T to learn a tablet device she had 
purchased using her debit card and thought she had paid for, was debited to her bank 
account at a later date. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if NatWest were at fault for allowing the 
payment from the retailer to be debited to Ms Ts bank account a few days after the point of 
sale.
I am aware that separate complaints have been raised with NatWest relating to this issue, 
but to be clear these will be looked at separately and on their own merits, so I wont be 
commenting on those issues.
I was sorry to hear that Ms T says she suffers from a medical disorder that can result in her 
not being able to always recall clearly certain details and that must be difficult for her.  
I have been provided with various information concerning the transaction Ms T refers to. 
From the bank statements I have seen there is no evidence to show Ms Ts bank account 
was ever credited back with any funds following the original purchase, simply that the retailer 
took three days from the point of sale before it debited her bank account on 1 February 
2021. 
So here while Ms T feels this created confusion for her and NatWest have been unhelpful, 
theres nothing to suggest this here. What may have happened, in all likelihood, was Ms T 
on making the purchase believed the confirmation of the transaction meant it had been 
debited to her bank account, when in fact it was simply pending. Its fair to say this isnt 
uncommon and some retailers take some time to process such payments, here the point of 
sale was on a Friday 29 January 2021 and the payment was debited to Ms Ts bank account 
on the following Monday, 1 February 2021. 
My role is to decide if NatWest could have done anything more to have ensured the payment 
was collected at the time of sale, but thats not within its control, that would be for the retailer 
to initiate. 
So, while Im sorry Ms T spent those monies thinking she received a benefit payment, 
theres nothing to suggest NatWest contributed in any way to her confusion over this matter, 
as upsetting as it may have been for her. Its fair to say its Ms Ts responsibility to check the 
transactions passing through her bank account and if she wasnt sure in any way, to have 
contacted NatWest to discuss this with them. 
While Ms T will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of NatWest 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman