DRN-2474911
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D, who are represented by a claims management company, (CMC) complain 
that Diamond Resorts Financial Services Limited (DRFS) rejected their claim under s 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of the purchase of timeshare points.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D acquired timeshare points from a company I will call T. This was funded by a 
point of sale loan provided by DRFS.
 
The CMC says they believe the product was misrepresented and Mr and Mrs D were treated 
unfairly during the sale. They asked DRFS to look into this and refund the total cost of the 
product. 
DRFS says it has no record of receiving a complaint from Mr and Mrs D, but has said that it 
considers any claim would have been brought too late. Specifically, it said that Mr and Mrs D 
didnt bring their claim within the time period set out in the Limitation Act. So, it didnt think it 
needed to look into this claim any further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, DRFS is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or services for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, Mr and Mrs D have 
a like claim against DRFS just as they would have against the supplier. So, if their claim 
against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, then that is 
something DRFS could take into account when it considers claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Mr and 
Mrs D have said the timeshare they bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, they would have six years from the date upon which they suffered 
a loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring their claim. 
As DRFS steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work out 
when the clock starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it would 
start if the claim had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of 
the complaint, I think damage occurred when Mr and Mrs D suffered a financial loss as a 
result of purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
The CMC says say that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, Mr and Mrs D paid to 
enter an agreement which has caused them to suffer a loss. It goes on to say that but for the 
misrepresentation, they wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in June 2000. Thats the moment when Mr and Mrs D accepted any potential benefit 
under the contract, and it was also the moment they accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, they 
needed to raise their claim no later than June 2006. As I understand it, they raised their 
claim in March 2019, which is nearly 19 years after the loss occurred.
They may say that they werent aware they could raise concerns about the 
misrepresentation until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims 
such as this, start to run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date they 
became aware that something might have gone wrong.  
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into Mr 
and Mrs Ds complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr and Mrs D 
would have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the 
information I have, their finance agreement ended in August 2001 so a s.140A claim needed 
to be raised no later than August 2007. As I understand it, Mr and MRs D raised their claim 
in March 2019, which is nearly 12 years after the finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether or not any claim Mr and Mrs D may have 
against the supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs Ds misrepresentation claim 
against the supplier and the like claim against DRFS more than likely exceeded the relevant 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for DRFS to take 
this into account when considering Mr and Mrs Ds s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that the claim now is more than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I think 
DRFSs decision not to look into Mr and Mrs Ds claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman