DRN-2727777
The complaint
Mr M complains that Azzurro Associates Limited (Azzurro) have registered a default against 
him.
What happened
Mr M took out a loan with a third-party lender. In 2019, this lender sold the debt of £3,849.56 
to Azzurro. Azzurro, through third party debt collectors, have been attempting to collect the 
outstanding balance since. 
Azzurro say that no payments have been received towards the debt since 2018, and so it 
applied a default to the account and notified the credit reference agencies.
Mr M is unhappy that a default has been applied. He says that a default had already been 
applied by the original lender, and so it wasnt fair of Azzurro to do this too. Hes also said 
that he hadnt received any communication from either the original lender or Azzurro to say 
that Azzurro were the new owners of the debt  and so he didnt want to make a payment 
towards the debt until he was satisfied that Azzurro were the owners of the debt.
Azzurro responded to Mr Ms complaint to say it had fairly registered a default against him in 
September 2020 because he hadnt been making payments towards the debt. But it noticed 
that Mr M hadnt made a payment since August 2018 and so it backdated the default. 
Azzurro also said that it had spoken to the original lender, who confirmed that it hadnt 
previously defaulted the account. Azzurro let Mr M know that it had tried to contact him 
through its debt collectors to let him know that it had purchased the debt.
Mr M remained unhappy with this and so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
that Azzurro had done enough to communicate to Mr M that it was the new legal owners of 
the debt, and he found that this was fair of Azzurro to report the default to the credit 
reference agencies.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. He said that Azzurro delayed the default being 
registered. And that it misled him into thinking that a default had already been applied three 
years prior. So, he says that Azzurro have delayed the default by three years which has had 
a significant impact on him. He says that a mortgage application he had was affected 
because it looked as though a new default had been registered, and some of his other credit 
facilities have also been impacted. He says that the distress of this situation has had a 
negative affect on his mental health.
Because Mr M disagreed the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Azzurro has sent me copies of some letters that were sent to Mr M when it first took over the 
debt. I can see that a letter was sent by the original creditor to Mr M to let him know that it 
had sold the debt to Azzurro  and that his account would be managed by a debt collection 
agency. It provided the contact details of the debt collection agency so that Mr M could 
arrange payment to the account. 
Azzurro also wrote to Mr M to let him know it was now the new legal owners of the debt. The 
letter confirmed how much was outstanding and that the account would be managed by a 
debt collection agency. 
I note that both letters were sent to the address that Mr M had given to the original lender 
when he first took out the loan. I have tried to contact Mr M to confirm his address at the 
time. He hasnt responded to me. And so, I dont have any reason to think the letters were 
going to an old address. Ive also seen a copy of a letter from one of the debt collectors that 
suggests Mr M had been in touch with it to let it know about his personal circumstances. This 
letter was also sent to the same address as the notice of assignment letters. So, it appears 
Mr M was receiving the letters  and that he knew Azzurro were the new legal owners of the 
debt.
Based on what Ive said, I think it likely Mr M knew his debt had been sold to Azzurro  and 
that payments towards the debt should be made to the debt collection agency. I cant agree 
with Mr Ms comments that Azzurro hadnt properly communicated this with him.
Ive had a look at the default notice that was sent to Mr M in relation to this debt. I can see 
that it told him it would terminate the agreement if he didnt bring the account back up to 
date. Im satisfied that Mr M ought to have been aware that the account would default if a 
payment wasnt made to bring the account up to date. 
Ive also seen information from the original lender that says it didnt register a default against 
him. Ive asked Mr M for a copy of his credit file so I could check this, but he didnt respond 
and so I havent seen anything that makes me think the default has been registered twice.  
I havent seen anything that makes me think Azzurro misled Mr M into believing that a 
default had been previously registered. And based on what Ive seen, I think Azzurro acted 
fairly when it agreed to backdate the default to when Mr M first started to miss payments in 
August 2018. This means that the default would be on Mr Ms credit file for less time than it 
would have been had it been registered in September 2020. Mr M complains that the default 
isnt an accurate reflection of his credit file  but given that the default has been backdated 
and that Mr M hasnt made any payments to the account since 2018, it is my opinion that this 
is a very accurate reflection of how Mr M has managed the account.
A default will likely have an impact on a persons ability to obtain new credit or the terms and 
cost of existing credit arrangements, so its possible that Mr Ms mortgage application and 
other credit agreements were affected by this. But a business, like Azzurro, has the 
responsibility to report accurate information about how someone has managed their account. 
Given what Ive already said about Mr M not making payments to the account, I think it was 
fair that Azzurro registered the default against him. And I think it was fair of it to backdate 
this as this is a true reflection of when Mr M started to miss repayments.
Mr M told this service that his credit report still isnt showing the backdated default date. I 
asked Azzurro about this, and theyve responded to say that due to a system error, the 
request it sent through didnt update properly, so the default date was still showing as 
September 2020. But it has now sent information that satisfies me that it has now requested this  and it said it has requested this to be done urgently. I dont think this delay has 
negatively impacted Mr M too much  he would have had a default showing on his credit file 
anyway, so I cant see that the delay in the date being updated would have had much impact 
on his financial position.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman