DRN-2776933
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that TSB Bank plc changed the address on their account without 
their knowledge or consent. Mr J brings this complaint on behalf of both he and his wife. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs J but having done so I wont 
be asking TSB to do anything further. 
TSB accepted it made mistakes and it has apologised. It said the address was 
updated at a branch and that this was a human error. It said this was an isolated 
issue. Ive no reason to dispute TSBs explanation of how the address was changed 
and am satisfied TSB has acknowledged its error and apologised. Unfortunately, 
human errors do occur from time to time.  
TSB said three account statements went out to the wrong address and this was a 
bank error and a data protection breach. The Financial Ombudsman Service cant 
decide if there has been a General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) breach, only 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) can decide this. But TSB has accepted 
there was a breach and we can look at compensation for these sorts of issues. 
TSB said it understood saying sorry doesn't make amends for the upset this situation 
caused Mr and Mrs J, so it credited their account with £250 to compensate for the 
distress and inconvenience. It also apologised for saying Mrs J had requested the 
change of address. Mr J believes this isnt enough to compensate for the loss of 
privacy and anxiety this has caused. He said £250 is insufficient given the massive 
personal data disclosure.  
I can see that three statements were sent out to another address and of course they 
contained private information relating to Mr and Mrs Js account. Mr J hasnt reported 
he and his wife suffered any financial loss as a direct result of this breach. But I am 
sorry to hear this situation caused Mr and Mrs J anxiety and distress. I can 
understand this must have been unsettling. While Mr J feels £250 is insufficient and 
his internet research suggests a higher amount, its my role to determine what I think 
fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Js complaint. And 
in this case, Im satisfied that £250 is fair and reasonable and what I would expect 
under such circumstances. 
Mr J has also said he spent a lot of time travelling to and from his local branch 
regularly to ensure no one had accessed his account. He has calculated he travelled 
over 700 miles with all the trips. He said he is old fashioned and doesnt do internet 
banking and doesnt have the code for telephone banking. I can see this situation 
took up a lot of time and energy for Mr and Mrs J, going to the branch often to check 
the account. Internet and telephone banking are offered as part of a range of ways 
for customers to access their accounts. I sympathise with the fact Mr J doesnt want 
to do internet banking, but this is his choice. As TSB offers quicker and more 
convenient ways to access accounts, along with access to branches, it wouldnt be 
fair of me to instruct it to compensate Mr and Mrs J for travel to and from the branch.
Mr J said he wasnt aware of receiving the £250 compensation and wasnt given the 
opportunity to say yes or no to it. TSB accepted it made an error and paid the 
compensation directly into the joint account. Mr and Mrs J can of course refuse it and 
ask for it to be taken back. But having the money already in their account doesnt 
prevent them from complaining that £250 is insufficient nor does it prevent them 
bringing the complaint to this service. 
Mr J has also complained that he is no longer the lead name on the account. 
Previously his name was first and Mrs Js name was second. He said he has had this 
account for many years, since he was 11, and only added Mrs J to the account after 
they got married. He wants his name to be changed back to the lead name. 
Although Mr J has had this account for many years its no longer a sole account. The 
account is in both names and both parties have the right to, for example, withdraw 
money, and both are responsible for any debt. Ive looked at the account and Im 
satisfied its a joint account and in both names. It would be up to TSB to identify 
which name is first. Its possible the names switched around when the address was 
incorrectly changed. We dont have the power to tell a bank how it develops its 
internal policies. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). I consider this an internal process matter so I cant direct the bank to reorder 
the names.
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman