DRN-3889770
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that Bank of Scotland plc (t/a Halifax) wont assist him to recover money 
he paid on his debit card.
What happened
Mr C says that, while pursuing a legal claim against a third-party company  who I shall refer 
to as M  he noticed a transaction of £9,000 that left his account in September 2015, which 
the accounts say was paid to M. In July 2022, Mr C contacted Halifax to ask for assistance in 
recovering this money and asked where the payment had gone to.
Halifax responded to say it was unable to recover the money, because it said he only had 
540 days from the transaction date to dispute the payment. So it said hed raised the dispute 
too late. It also said, due to the passage of time, it no longer had a record of where the 
money was sent.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she was satisfied Halifax had acted fairly. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator as he says M has said it didnt receive the money and 
he still thinks Halifax should tell him where the money went to. And he asked for an 
ombudsman to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I appreciate Mr C is unhappy that Halifax is unable to tell him where the money was sent. 
But banks are not required to keep information indefinitely and nearly seven years had 
passed since the transaction until Mr C contacted Halifax to query it. Im not saying Mr C is 
at fault for this, but its not unreasonable that Halifax doesnt have this information anymore.
Mr C has said that a different ombudsman scheme has said M didnt receive the money. But 
M is not a party to this complaint. Im only considering the actions of Halifax in this decision. 
Halifax has shown that the payment was made using Mr Cs debit card. Mr C has asked 
Halifax to refund this money. In essence, he asked Halifax to raise a chargeback claim. 
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. But the 
rules that set out when a chargeback can be raised and what rights are available are set out 
by the individual card scheme provider  i.e. not set out by Halifax. In this case the card 
scheme provider was VISA.
VISA sets out certain timeframes for when a chargeback claim can be raised. And one of 
these is that any claim must be raised within 540 days of the transaction date. So Mr C 
needed to raise this dispute by 25 February 2017. But he didnt contact Halifax until 
July 2022. While I acknowledge and understand why Mr C didnt contact Halifax sooner, I 
can only look at whether Halifax acted fairly here. And ultimately it was right in saying Mr C 
had raised the dispute too late, given the timescales set out by VISA.
I acknowledge Mr C feels strongly about whats happened in this case, but Im satisfied 
Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman