DRN-2474872
The complaint
Mr H complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim under 
his Breakdown Repair Cover policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020. Heres what I said:
Mr H has a roadside assistance policy that includes additional cover. Part of this cover is   
Breakdown Repair Cover which is underwritten by Acromas.
The Breakdown Repair Cover pays for many of the spare parts that are used to fix a vehicle 
at the roadside, or it can help cover the costs for work thats been done in a garage after a 
breakdown.
Mr H called for assistance on 3 October as a fault light was showing on his cars dashboard. 
A recovery agent attended the vehicle. He noted a key fault on the dashboard, but he wasnt 
able to diagnose the problem as he didnt have a diagnostic computer with him. So, the 
engineer told Mr H he should take his car to the dealer to have it looked at. The recovery 
agent noted the vehicle mileage as 36,030.
Mr H took his car to a garage on 2 November. They said one of the cars keys didnt work 
(but Mr H had a spare), and the stop/start warning light was flashing on the dashboard  the 
garage found this to be due to corroded glow plugs. But they noted there were no running 
issues with the car. The garage also noted the vehicle mileage as 36,614.
Mr H claimed for the cost of parts and work done by the garage. Acromas declined the claim 
for a few reasons. It declined the key claim as keys were not covered under the policy. The 
glow plugs fault was declined because this didnt cause the initial breakdown and the garage 
hadnt noted any running issues. So, Acromas said this was excluded under the policy.
But overall, Acromas said it also declined the entire claim because the vehicle hadnt 
suffered a breakdown as defined by the policy terms. It noted that the vehicle had driven 584 
miles between the date of breakdown and the date of the claim being logged, so it was 
driveable.
Mr H didnt agree with this. He says that the recovery agent who attended the vehicle at 
roadside hadnt recorded the mileage correctly, and he never signed the breakdown report. 
Mr H says he didnt take the car to a garage straight away due to personal reasons, and this 
was also why he didnt drive the car much between this time.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say 
the mileage had been recorded incorrectly. He also didnt think Acromas had done anything 
wrong by declining the claim because Mr Hs car hadnt suffered a breakdown as defined by 
the terms of the policy.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, he continues to dispute the 
mileage, and he says Acromas acknowledged the service he received fell far short of its 
standards. 
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy say that for a claim to be covered under this policy, 
Mr Hs car needs to have suffered a breakdown. The policy defines breakdown as 
A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical failure; and
b) which has been attended by the AA under Your AA membership; and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey 
safely; and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed or [] commenced.
The issue that the recovery agent noted on 3 October was a key fault on the dashboard. I 
can see that the dealer identified on 2 November that the key ID wasnt recognised, so a 
new key was needed. But Mr H had another key, so he was still able to drive the car.
Firstly, Im not satisfied Acromas has correctly declined this part of the claim by saying keys 
are excluded. The policy excludes keys (lost or stolen) but the key in question wasnt lost 
or stolen  the key just wasnt recognised by the cars system. But as Mr H was able to use 
another key, it looks like the issue was with the key and not the car. So, I dont think this 
meant Mr Hs car had suffered a breakdown as defined by the terms. I dont think there was 
a mechanical or electrical failure involving the car that prevented Mr H from continuing the 
journey safely.
When Mr H took his car to the dealer, another issue was identified  a stop/start warning 
light on the dashboard, and new glow plugs were needed. Acromas has explained that had 
the glow plugs failed, it wouldve stopped the car from starting. But on this occasion, the 
corrosion that had built up over time was causing bad earth, which made the light come on. 
The garage that replaced the glow plugs also said this wasnt causing any running issues 
with the car, just the warning light.
Again, I dont think this meant that Mr Hs car had suffered a breakdown as defined by the 
policy terms. The corroded glow plugs appeared to cause an issue with the warning light 
coming on, but I havent seen anything to suggest it caused any problems with the car itself. 
So, in this particular case, I dont think there was a mechanical or electrical failure that 
prevented Mr H from starting or continuing his journey.
I have also noted that Mr H continued to drive the car for a significant distance between the 
time the recovery agent attended and when he took the car in for repairs. I know Mr H 
disputes the mileage that the recovery agent reported when he attended the vehicle. But 
firstly, I havent seen enough to say the mileage hasnt been recorded correctly. And in any 
event, I think the key issue here is that there hasnt been a breakdown as defined by the 
policy terms, as Ive explained above.Taking everything into account, I dont think Acromas has done anything wrong by declining 
Mr Hs claim under his Breakdown Repair Cover.
Mr H wasnt happy with my provisional findings. In summary, he said that:
the recovery agent who attended didnt have the equipment to diagnose the problem, 
and Mr H never signed the breakdown report;
he thinks the same issue probably happened with his spare key, and if the key isnt 
recognised, the car is dangerous to drive as it may cause a malfunction;
the report by the garage states the keys had been replaced with batteries, and this is 
with both keys Mr H had for the car; and
Mr H disputes that there werent any running issues with the car, and he questions 
the evidence of this, and which garage said it.
Acromas didnt originally have anything to add to my provisional decision. But it wanted to 
comment on the issues Mr H had raised. In summary, it said that:
any issues with the recovery agent arent part of this complaint, as theyre not within 
our remit to look into;
the garage told Acromas there was only issue with one key;
Mr H continued to drive the car for a significant distance; and
the garage in question was the one Mr H took his car to, and the evidence is in 
Acromas claim notes following a conversation with that garage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any action by the recovery agent isnt part of this complaint. This isnt something Acromas is 
responsible for. And Ive already explained to Mr H separately what our service can and 
cannot look into. In this decision, Ill only address what I can look into under Mr Hs complaint 
against Acromas.
That said, I wanted to clarify something I said in my provisional decision. I said I hadnt seen 
enough to say the mileage hadnt been recorded correctly. But I also explained in this 
paragraph that the key issue was that there hadnt been a breakdown as defined by the 
policy terms. In other words, I didnt think the dispute about the mileage was crucial to the 
outcome of the complaint.
This doesnt mean Ive made a finding about the recovery agents actions. But I did think 
Acromas had acted reasonably in relying on the information it was given about the mileage 
by the recovery agent and by the garage. This was because I hadnt seen enough to say 
these hadnt been recorded correctly.
However, I am not making any findings about the recovery agents actions (or inactions) 
here, as these arent the responsibility of Acromas under this complaint.
The garage in question is the one Mr H took his car to. Acromas notes of its conversation 
with the garage show that the issue was with only one key, and the garage said there were 
no running issues, just a flashing warning light. The report Mr H has given us from the 
garage doesnt contradict this information, albeit it isnt as detailed. So, I dont see any 
reason to depart from the findings I reached on these issues in my provisional decision.Overall, the comments Mr H and Acromas have given dont change the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision. Taking everything into account, I dont think Acromas has done 
anything wrong by declining Mr Hs claim under his Breakdown Repair Cover.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman