DRN-3158912
The complaint
Mrs A complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited trading as Land 
Rover Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In June 2018 Mrs A was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with Black 
Horse.
Mrs A experienced issues with the infotainment system. She returned the car to the garage 
and a software update was carried out in May 2019. Mrs A continued to experience issues 
and further software updates were carried out in November 2019 and February 2020. The 
car was returned to the garage again in March 2021, but the garage was unable to replicate 
the issues on this occasion.
Mrs A complained to Black Horse and asked to reject the car. Black Horse contacted the 
supplying dealer, who confirmed that they had seen the car and carried out software 
updates. Black Horse issued a final response to Mrs A in which it refused to accept a 
rejection of the car. it acknowledged that the car had required software updates but said this 
was normal given the technology in the car.
Mrs A wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service. Shes said 
that the issues with the infotainment system are ongoing and that the stereo isnt working at 
all now.
Black Horse made an offer to resolve the complaint which our investigator thought was fair. 
The offer was to refund 5% of monthly payments from March 2021 to date.
Mrs A wasnt happy with the offer. She said shed been experiencing these issues for three 
years and the offer didnt reflect the time shed been without the car and the distress the 
issues had caused her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Black Horse supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that where a fault occurs 
in the first 6 months of the point of supply, theres a presumption that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply and its up to the business to put things right.
The information Ive seen shows that the car has been returned to the dealer on four 
occasions over a period of around three years. On three of these occasions the dealer 
carried out a software update. But on the last occasion, the dealer couldnt replicate the 
issues with the infotainment system and said there wasnt a fault.
Ive looked at the videos provided by Mrs A. Im satisfied that these show that there are 
some issues with the infotainment system. It seems likely, based on what Mrs A has said, 
that these issues have been intermittent and have been resolved by the software update 
each time its been carried out. 
Black Horse has said that its reasonable to expect to need software updates due to the 
technology in the car. I dont disagree with this, but three updates in less than three years 
does seem a lot and I understand why Mrs A feels frustrated. Because the issue is 
intermittent, I think this is why the dealer couldnt find a fault the last time the car was 
returned. It seems likely that Mrs A has had to drive the car around since her last visit to the 
dealer with the issue present, which, although it doesnt prevent her from using the car, has 
affected her enjoyment of it.
As Ive said, Im persuaded that Mrs A has had to drive the car with these issues present 
since March 2021 so its right to recognise this in considering what is a fair way to resolve 
the complaint. Ive thought about the offer Black Horse has made to refund 5% of monthly 
rentals since March 2021 and on balance I think its fair. Theres no evidence that theres 
anything wrong with the car apart from the intermittent issue with the infotainment system, so 
I think the 5% refund is proportionate in all the circumstances.
I understand that Mrs A is unhappy with the way that the dealer has handled things. Im only 
able to look into how Black Horse has responded to the complaint so I cant comment on the 
dealer. If Mrs A feels that she wants to pursue a complaint about how the dealer handled 
things, she can contact The Motor Ombudsman.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Black Horse should refund 5% of monthly repayments made from March 
2021 to date, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover 
Financial Services must take the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman