DRN-4310935
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society refused to grant an extension to his 
payment holiday and defaulted his account.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr G took out a personal loan with Nationwide for £25,000. The term of the 
loan was 60 months, and the monthly repayments were £557.45.
In March 2020 Mr G asked Nationwide for a payment holiday. Nationwide agreed to this and 
extended it for a further 3 months in July 2020.
When the payment holiday ended, Mr G contacted Nationwide to discuss his options. He 
said he couldnt afford to pay his contractual monthly repayment and said he could only 
afford to pay £130 per month.  Nationwide said it couldnt provide any further payment 
holidays and warned Mr G that if he didnt resume contractual monthly payments, the 
account may be defaulted.
Mr G didnt resume his contractual monthly payments and the account was defaulted.
Mr G complained to Nationwide. He was unhappy that his offer of payment hadnt been 
accepted and felt that hed been left with no choice but to accept a default, which had 
impacted his credit file.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had agreed a payment holiday with Mr G in 
March 2020 and extended this in July 2020, and that it had informed him in July 2020 that if 
the account was defaulted, his credit file would be impacted.
Mr G remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Nationwide had offered all the 
support it was able to under the payment holiday measures. They said that although a lender 
is required to treat a consumer in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically, this 
didnt mean that Nationwide was obliged to accept a lower monthly payment. The 
investigator said he hadnt found any evidence to suggest that Mr G had been advised to 
allow the account to be defaulted. The investigator said that Nationwide hadnt made an 
error when it reported the default because it was under an obligation to provide accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies.
Mr G didnt agree. He said the default had impacted his credit file and was preventing him 
from moving house.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs initial complaint was that he wasnt told about the effect of the default. More recently 
hes told this service he doesnt think that Nationwide helped him in the way it was supposed 
to during the pandemic.
Ill address the support that was offered during the pandemic first. There were support 
schemes available at the time of the pandemic. One such scheme was the Payment Holiday 
(or payment deferrals) measures introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The 
guidance said that lenders should offer consumers impacted by the pandemic up to six 
months payments deferrals to be taken in two blocks of three months.
I can see that Nationwide offered Mr G a three month payment holiday in March 2020. This 
was extended for a further three months in July 2020. This was the maximum period 
available under the scheme.
When Mr Gs payment holiday ended, I can see that he contacted Nationwide to let them 
know that he wasnt able to pay his contractual monthly payments. Nationwide has provided 
a call recording, which Ive listened to. Its clear from the call that Mr Gs employment was still 
affected by the pandemic and that he couldnt pay the contractual monthly repayment. 
During the call Mr G said he could only afford to pay £130 per month. The Nationwide agent 
said that no further payment holidays were available and that if Mr G didnt resume the 
contractual monthly repayment, the account would be defaulted.
I appreciate that Mr G didnt want the account defaulted. This is clear from the call. However, 
Im satisfied that the agent explained clearly to Mr G that if the contractual monthly payments 
werent made, a default notice would be issued.
I can see that Mr G made payments of £125 in October 2020 and November 2020. However, 
this wasnt the contractual monthly payment, and the arrears on the account increased to 
over £4,200. It was at this point that a default notice was issued. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to default the account. 
The relevant guidance says that a default may be registered when an account is between 
three and six months in arrears. Mr Gs account met these criteria. 
Mr G has said that Nationwide shouldve treated him positively and sympathetically and 
allowed him to pay a reduced amount under a payment plan. Whilst a lender is obliged to 
treat a consumer who is experiencing financial difficulties positively and sympathetically, this 
doesnt mean that a lender is obliged to accept a lower monthly payment. Based on what 
Ive seen, Im persuaded that Nationwide treated Mr G positively and sympathetically by 
agreeing the payment holiday and the extension, and by allowing Mr G time to check with his 
employer as to whether his circumstances might change soon. I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest that Nationwide encouraged Mr G to allow the account to be defaulted.
I appreciate that this was a difficult time for Mr G, and I understand that the default will have 
had an impact on his credit file. Mr G has asked this service if the default can be removed. 
Im unable to ask Nationwide to do this, because I cant see that it has made an error by 
reporting the default. As a lender, Nationwide is under an obligation to provide accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies. The reporting of the default was an accurate 
reflection of the state of Mr Gs account.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman