DRN-3856879
The complaint
Mr S complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc service when he requested a replacement debit 
card.
What happened
Mr S requested a replacement HSBC debit card on 25 August 2022. As this didnt arrive 
within HSBCs guideline time of 3 to 5 working days, Mr S complained and requested 
compensation. He said this was for the inconvenience and distress caused.
HSBC said they had dispatched the card and hadnt made an error, but Mr S didnt believe 
this. HSBC decided to offer Mr S £40 as a goodwill payment, and they subsequently 
increased the offer to £200. They also ordered another card on 5 September.
Mr S called HSBC again a week later to say this hadnt arrived either and he requested 
further compensation. However, HSBC declined this saying they hadnt made an error.
Mr S finally received the replacement card on 17 September and as HSBC didnt uphold his 
complaint, he contacted our service.
Mr S is dissatisfied as our investigator couldnt see HSBC had made any errors. So, this 
case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, Im not upholding 
this complaint and Ill explain why.
I should first explain this service cant instruct a business to alter its card dispatch or 
complaint handing processes, procedures or systems. I say this because we arent the 
regulator of the financial services industry, and our role is to consider each individual case. 
And, where we think a business hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, our 
role is to decide what should be done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a 
consumer has experienced.
In this case, HSBCs procedure is to dispatch replacement cards using the postal service 
and there is a dispute over whether HSBS correctly processed Mr Ss requests. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr S doesnt believe HSBC sent him a replacement card and thinks its 
high unlikely that there couldve been a postal issue, from reviewing the information on file I 
cant see any evidence that HSBC made an error here. And, considering HSBC records 
together with disruption from postal industrial action and mail loss statistics, I think it more 
likely than not that factors outside of HSBCs control caused the non-receipt issues. 
So, although I can understand the frustration and difficulties Mr S experienced, I dont think it 
would be either fair or reasonable to ask HSBC to pay compensation when the evidence 
shows HSBC followed the process they have in place for issuing replacement cards.
Also, whilst I can understand the frustration and inconvenience at having to visit a branch to 
use HSBCs alternative methods of accessing cash or seeking support to set up electronic 
payments, I cant see that these werent available to Mr S.
Im pleased to see that HSBC value Mr S as a loyal customer and, when accepting his word 
that their service couldve been better, paid Mr S £200 compensation. However, having read 
the file and listened to the calls, as its a business decision for HSBC to use the postal 
service and they dont have control over that service, I can understand their lack of certainty 
over delivery timescales. And, although Mr S would like HSBC to have alternative delivery 
methods, I cant see that HSBC have either failed to follow their card replacement 
procedures, made an error or treated Mr S unfairly here. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr S will remain disappointed, Im not asking HSBC to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman