DRN-2118907
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Santander UK Plcs security process held up his intended payments 
and that the advice he was given by its telephone security agent was wrong.
. 
What happened
The parties are familiar with the background to this complaint. So, I dont intend to repeat it 
all here. In summary, Mr L tried to make a significant payment online. It was stopped by 
Santanders security systems which put a block on his account. He had to telephone 
Santander to get this released. When speaking with Santanders security agent, he was told 
that hed have no problems making further significant payments that day to the same 
account.
Upon attempting to make those payments, his account was again blocked. He had to 
telephone Santander for a second time the next day to get the account released and he ran 
through the same security questions. Hes upset that the information he was given was 
incorrect and he considers that Santanders security systems arent fit for purpose as they 
immediately blocked a payment that hed only minutes earlier been told it would be fine for 
him to make. He sees it as non-sensical that he then needs to provide exactly the same 
security information that hes previously given.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt think that Santander needed to do 
anything more. She thought that the £50 goodwill payment that Santander had made was 
fair compensation.
Mr L didnt agree and would like around £500 compensation. Hed also like me to recognise 
the problems with Santanders security systems and potentially make it do something to 
improve them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L will likely be disappointed to hear that I also think that the compensation Santander has 
offered is fair. Ill explain why and will also address Mr Ls concerns about Santanders 
security systems.
Ive been through all the evidence with which weve been provided, and Ive listened to the 
calls. Its clear that the advice Mr L was given over the phone was wrong. He was told in no 
uncertain terms that there wouldnt be any further problems with him making the payments 
that hed indicated. But what he should have been told is that the current security block had 
been lifted but it was possible that the security system may impose another one.
Now I appreciate how senseless it seems for a customer to have to go to the trouble of 
contacting their bank to authorise an account transfer, only to then have to do exactly the 
same thing again for the next transfer. As Mr L has said, all hes going to then do is give the 
same details and the transaction will then be authorised. This must have been all the more 
galling, given what hed been told by the security agent only minutes earlier.
Whilst I empathise with Mr Ls position, perhaps it will help if I put in context whats going on 
in the bank fraud arena. As I expect he will have seen in the press, over the last few years 
there has been a significant increase in online fraud. That has led to banks taking a much 
tougher approach to trying to prevent fraud. Santanders security systems, like those of other 
banks, run through a computer algorithm. Theres no person involved at the first stage. 
Despite the improvements in technology over the years, that algorithm can be a pretty blunt-
edged instrument. Which Mr L has found to his detriment here.
What the security adviser should have told Mr L was that shed lifted the current block on his 
account, but that the security algorithm may kick in again and stop his payment. If that were 
to happen, she could have given him a direct line to the security team so that he could clear 
the payment quickly and easily.
That of course doesnt make it right that the system is so linear and doesnt provide for an 
override for any one mandate authorisation. But that is the system that Santander has. It 
appears to me to be designed not to make the customers life any easier but to protect a 
customer from possible fraud. Now, its difficult to argue that protecting a customer from 
fraud isnt a reasonable thing for a bank to do. Many thousands of people lose significant 
sums to fraudsters each year. And we deal with a lot of complaints about how their bank has 
treated them in the aftermath of these devastating crimes.
Mr L will have noted on the calls that the security agents questioned him carefully about how 
he got the details of the account he was paying, whether he got them in an email or over the 
phone, etc. These conversations are of course very scripted. But again, theyre intended to 
help customers recognise whether they may have been the subject of a scam. Mr Ls 
transaction was of course nothing of the sort. So, he easily passed all the security questions 
and his transaction was completed.
Whilst I know that Mr L isnt questioning the importance of Santander having security 
systems in place, he just thinks they should have been over-ridden following his original call. 
But contrary to what Mr L believes may be the case, the second block on his account does 
appear to be a new security block, rather than the first remaining in place in error. Each 
payment request is treated as a separate transaction. Mr Ls second tranche online transfer 
authorisation was therefore seen by the banks systems as a new transaction. So even 
though it is to the same payee, the bank will consider that transaction afresh against its 
computer model.
I cant really say for certain what caused his account to be blocked the second time, but the 
transactions that hed done previously do explain why the algorithm may have stopped the 
next one as well. I can see that the day prior to calling up Santander, Mr L made a smaller 
transaction to his nominated bank account. I believe that the account he was sending it to 
was also a new mandate. The following day he attempted to transfer a more significant sum 
to that account - and thats when the first block was applied. 
This is a common fraudsters technique, where the criminal tries a smaller amount first and 
then gets more brazen. Criminals often also try and transfer in multiple tranches to evade 
certain banks security protocols. So, the first one may have been blocked under an 
increased payment protocol. And the second because Mr L was making a number of 
payments after the previous two had succeeded (with the security agents help of course). 
So, its likely that because Mr L was, quite legitimately, transferring a few tranches of the 
same amount, that just triggered another of the banks security markers. I also understand from Santander that Mr L may have changed the reference on one of the payments. So that 
may too have triggered the stop.
So, whilst I wholly appreciate Mr Ls frustration, the security systems that Santander has in 
place appear to have operated as they were designed to do. Whilst this means that other 
than giving Mr L some poor advice, Santander hasnt done anything wrong, I agree with Mr L 
that Santander should take this customer feedback to its security team - and see if anything 
can be done to either tweak the algorithm, or otherwise provide a better customer 
experience in the future. As our investigator has said, thats not something that I can require 
that Santander do, as that would be a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. But I would urge Santander to give it some thought, particularly as I would hope to 
avoid the need for any further complaints like Mr Ls to this Service.
Turning to the compensation that Mr L has been offered. I appreciate that Mr L is self-
employed and that this has been a real annoyance to him and a waste of his time. Some of 
that upset could have been avoided if hed been properly advised in the first place. But the 
security protocols are still likely to have applied and he would have had to contact Santander 
again in any event to clear his transactions.
When determining compensation for how a business poor service has affected a customer, 
this cant be an exact science. At this service we deal with many different situations where 
customers experience significant distress and inconvenience. That sometimes includes 
customers facing many weeks and months of chasing businesses up and being provided 
with ongoing poor service. For that we may award higher sums of compensation.
I understand that Mr L sees this as a point of principle, and he has spent a lot of time making 
his case very clear to all involved. But we dont generally award compensation for the time 
taken to bring a complaint. So, having taken everything into account, and considering that 
this problem happened over a two-day period, I think that £50 is fair compensation for the 
trouble and upset that Mr L experienced.
In closing, Id like to apologise to Mr L for the time that its taken for us to get his complaint 
on desk with one of our investigators. Over the last year weve seen a significant increase in 
complaints to our service, and with the current pandemic having intervened over the last few 
months as well, this has meant that some customers have had to wait much longer than we 
would have liked for an outcome to their complaint. Were working on improving this and Id 
like to thank Mr L for his patience over this time.My final decision
Santander UK Plc has made an offer of compensation to Mr L of £50 for the trouble and 
upset that he experienced following its poor advice. I consider this to be fair compensation 
and I will not be requiring that Santander do anything more. 
But I would recommend that Santander refer the details of this complaint to their security 
team to see if anything can be done to improve the customer experience for circumstances 
like this in the future.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman