DRN-2182877
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the way Xbridge Limited trading as Simply Business dealt with 
him when he approached it for a landlord insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Mr J contacted Xbridge in July 2019 regarding quotes for landlord insurance.
Xbridge said Mr J mentioned there would be a managing agent and the property would be let 
out to five unemployed tenants with the tenants paying the rent to the managing agent, who 
in turn, would pay him. It said Mr J didnt mention that the managing agent would be 
subletting to the individual tenants. Xbridge said it provided quotes but Mr J didnt want to 
proceed straightaway.
During a later call Mr J mentioned that the property would be let to the managing agent 
which would sublet parts to the individual occupiers. At that point Xbridge said it was unable 
to offer him any quotes. It referred him to another organisation which it said might be able to 
help him.
Mr J complained to Xbridge. It said if hed made it clear on the first call that the property was 
sublet, it wouldnt have offered him any quotes.
He brought his complaint to this service. Mr J said he had to buy a more expensive product 
as there was no time for him to shop around and he suffered significant stress as a result of 
the way he was treated by Xbridge. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information provided to Xbridge I think it should have clarified at the outset what 
the role of the managing agent was  that is, whether it simply collected the rent on Mr Js 
behalf or, as turned out to be the case, whether it was Mr Js tenant. From an insurance 
perspective this was an important distinction as Xbridge wouldnt be able to arrange cover 
for a property that was sublet. Mr J wouldnt necessarily have known how important this 
information was. However, this initial failure was quickly put right and Mr J wasnt mis-sold a 
policy that was unsuitable for him. 
I can understand Mr J feeling let down when it turned out that the cover he was hoping to 
buy wasnt in fact available to him. Mr J thinks that Xbridge had entered into a contract with 
him to provide cover and so was in breach of that contract. Unfortunately for Mr J, thats not 
the position. Xbridge is an insurance broker which offers policies provided by a panel of 
insurers. Its up to those insurers to choose the terms on which theyll provide cover. If they 
decide that they dont wish to cover properties that are sublet, Xbridge cant make them 
change their decision.
Mr J also says that if the policy had been taken out online without this point having been 
clarified by him, his policy might have been invalid. I agree that this could have had 
potentially serious consequences but fortunately for Mr J this didnt happen. Its not my role 
to punish Xbridge for something which might have happened but didnt.
Ultimately I can see that Xbridge should have handled the initial call better so that Mr J 
wasnt misled into believing that it had a policy suitable for him. But it acted quickly to put this 
right once it was aware of the actual situation. Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but I dont think it 
needs to do any more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman