DRN-2920830
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the fees and charges applied to their second charge loan 
account with Together Personal Finance Limited. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a secured loan in June 2007 with another lender. The loan was later 
transferred to Together. Mr and Mrs B say the fees and charges applied to their account are 
unfair and incorrect. They say these fees increased their account balance, and theyll 
struggle to repay the loan before the end of its term. 
Our investigator said the original loan was for about £32,000 (including fees which were 
added to the loan). By April 2014 the account balance was about £44,000. 
Weve written to Mr and Mrs B and Together to say that we cant look into what happened 
with Mr and Mrs Bs account before 1 April 2014. This is because the rules under which we 
operate dont allow us to. 
The investigator said the fees and charges applied since April 2014 had been applied in line 
with the loan agreement and were minimal. The reason the account balance had increased 
since April 2014 was because the monthly payments made by Mr and Mrs B were less than 
the interest being applied. The statements sent to Mr and Mrs B made this clear and 
Together had tried to contact Mr and Mrs B about their account. Unfortunately, its attempts 
at contact had mostly been unsuccessful. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this and so the complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs loan allow the lender to apply charges in certain 
circumstances. Together sent copies of its tariff of charges when it sent letters and account 
statements to Mr and Mrs B. I think Together made them aware of the charges that could be 
applied to their account. 
The loan terms say that Mr and Mrs B must keep the property insured. If Together doesnt 
receive evidence of this, it puts the property on its own insurance policy and applies the 
costs to Mr Mrs Bs account. The loan terms allow Together to do this.
Together provided copies of letters sent to Mr and Mrs B about this. These letters said their 
property was insured on its own policy, that the charge for this was added to their account, 
and asked them to provide a copy of their own insurance policy before the renewal date if 
they didnt want this to continue. It sent these letters before each renewal in early 2015, 
2016, 2017 and 2018.
Mr and Mrs B provided a copy of their own policy for 2018 and Together made a pro rata 
refund of the insurance charge. Mrs B said shed sent a copy of their policy for the previous 
year. Together asked for evidence of this. As it didnt receive this evidence, it didnt refund 
the charge for 2017.
Together says it didnt receive a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs own insurance policy until March 
2018. I havent seen any evidence that it did. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair or 
reasonable to require Together to refund more of the insurance charges. 
Arrears charges
Some of Mr and Mrs Bs contractual monthly payments were missed or late. I can see that 
Together applied arrears charges (of £50) on three occasions since April 2014. This was in 
accordance with its tariff of charges and the loan terms allow it to do this. I dont think, in the 
circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require Together to refund these charges.
Increase in the loan balance
When the loan was taken out the contractual monthly payment of £320 was calculated to 
ensure the loan was repaid by the end of its term. However, the loan balance had increased 
by April 2014. Mr and Mrs B have missed payments and charges have been applied to their 
account. However, the main reason for the increase in the loan balance since April 2014 is 
unpaid interest. 
Because of the increase in the loan balance, the amount of interest applied each month 
increased (to about £430 in 2014 and to about £500 in 2020). The amount being paid by Mr 
and Mrs B each month didnt increase until recently. The amount they paid each month was 
less than the interest being applied, and the unpaid interest was added to the loan balance. 
This further increased the loan balance  and, therefore, the amount of monthly interest 
applied to the account.
Together provided copies of letters from 2014 onwards asking Mr and Mrs B to contact it 
about their arrears. It provided copies of letters it sent to Mr and Mrs B when they missed 
payments, asking them to get in touch. In 2018 it told them their loan wouldnt be repaid 
within the term. Togethers records show it tried to contact Mr and Mrs B by phone. These 
attempts at contact were mostly unsuccessful. 
Together wrote to Mr and Mrs B suggesting they might increase their monthly direct debit 
payment. Paying more each month might have reduced their debt or at least meant it didnt 
increase as quickly. However, I dont think it would have been fair for Together to increase 
Mr and Mrs Bs monthly payment without discussing this with them first to assess whether 
this was affordable. For this, it needed Mr and Mrs B to be in contact and provide information 
about their circumstances.
I can understand that Mr and Mrs B are upset about the size of the debt they have to repay  
more than they first borrowed. I dont think though that Together made an error or treated 
them unfairly. It applied interest and charges in accordance with the terms of the loan  
which Mr and Mrs B agreed to when they took out the loan. It sent them information about 
their loan, the loan balance and the charges. And it made reasonable efforts to contact them. 
In the circumstances, I cant reasonably and fairly require Together to reduce the loan 
balance. 
Mr and Mrs B are in a difficult position with a large debt to pay. Id urge Mr and Mrs B to get 
in contact with Together with the aim of agreeing an affordable arrangement to repay the arrears, or discuss what other options they might have. Id remind Together of its duty to 
treat Mr and Mrs B fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman