DRN-2164382
The complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) misled her about how her use of 
overpayments and payment breaks would affect her mortgage account.
What happened
Mrs B has a mortgage with Halifax. She made overpayments and says she was told by 
Halifax these were enough to repay the mortgage and have a lump sum left. Because of this, 
she stopped making payments. The term expired in April 2020 with an unpaid balance of 
about £7,000. Mrs B says she wouldnt have stopped making payments if she hadnt been 
mis-informed by Halifax. 
The term of Mrs Bs mortgage has been extended so that she can repay the balance in 
affordable monthly payments. Mrs B says this means she will pay more interest. 
Our investigator said Mrs B hadnt made enough payments to clear the balance. She said 
there was no evidence Halifax had misled Mrs B. 
Mrs B said she was certain Halifax had given her misleading information about her account 
on more than one occasion over several years. She said if Halifax had sent written 
information about the effect of using the overpayments to cover missed monthly payments 
shed have been better informed, would have continued with payments and would have 
repaid the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened?
Originally, Mrs Bs mortgage was on an interest only basis. By early 2016 Mrs B had made 
overpayments of about £26,500, which reduced her mortgage balance to about £13,500. 
She agreed a term extension to April 2020 and switched to a repayment basis. Contractual 
monthly payments were recalculated so that the mortgage would be repaid in April 2020. 
If Mrs B had maintained contractual monthly payments from 2016 her mortgage would have 
been repaid in April 2020, with a small sum to be returned.
However, Miss B made reduced payments or took payment breaks in 2016, 2018 and 2019. 
At times she told Halifax she was struggling to make the contractual monthly payments. 
Because Mrs B had made overpayments to her mortgage account, her mortgage didnt fall 
into arrears when she didnt make contractual monthly payments in full. The overpayments 
were used to cover the missed payments. But it did mean she didnt make enough payments 
into the mortgage account to repay the balance by April 2020. 
When Mrs B called Halifax in December 2019, she told Halifax shed had a statement in 
August 2019 which showed an outstanding balance of about £7,500. And she acknowledged 
that she hadnt made payments for some months, although she didnt say why this was. 
Payments missed between March and December 2019 totalled about £4,600. 
Mrs B said shed be unable to repay the £7,500 balance by April 2020. Halifax agreed a term 
extension with Mrs B so that she could repay the outstanding balance in affordable monthly 
payments.
Did Halifax mislead Mrs B, or treat her unfairly?
Ive listened to the recording of the call in December 2019 and I think the Halifax call handler 
gave a reasonable explanation of why using overpayments to cover monthly payments 
meant Mrs Bs balance didnt reduce. Mrs B said on the call that she didnt understand how 
this worked. This call happened after the missed payments.
Mrs B says she discussed her account with different Halifax staff members over several 
years and Halifaxs notes support this. I think its unlikely Mrs B would have been given 
consistently incorrect information by different members of staff. 
Mrs B said she didnt have a letter explaining that if she used overpayments to cover her 
monthly payments, shed still have to make payments for the mortgage to be repaid on time. 
I can see that this might have helped Mrs B. However, I dont think this is enough to make it 
fair and reasonable to require Halifax to pay compensation. Ive explained why below.
Mrs B didnt make enough payments into her mortgage account to repay the balance by 
April 2020. 
Mrs B made overpayments which reduced the outstanding balance of her account. The 
overpayments were later applied so that her account didnt fall into arrears when she 
missed payments. But as no new payment was made into the account, I dont think its 
reasonable to say that this should have further reduced her balance.
Theres no evidence Halifax gave Mrs B incorrect information, or that it was aware before 
December 2019 that shed misunderstood the position with the overpayments. 
Mrs B told Halifax she was struggling to maintain payments at times. This suggests 
some of the payments were missed because she was unable to maintain them, not 
because shed been misled about the need to do so. 
I can understand how disappointed Mrs B must have been to find out in late 2019 she had a 
balance to repay. But I dont think, based on the evidence Ive seen, she was misled by 
Halifax. Mrs B told Halifax shed be unable to repay the £7,500 balance by April 2020. It 
agreed a term extension with Mrs B so that she could repay the outstanding balance in 
affordable monthly payments. I think this was fair, in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Ruth StevensonOmbudsman