DRN-3274456
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the way DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
(DAS) has dealt with a legal expenses policy claim.
What happened
The legal expenses policy is attached to the home insurance on Mr and Mrs Ds current 
home. Mr and Mrs D had sold their former property. The buyers of that property had brought 
a claim against them regarding rot at that property. The buyers were claiming £15,000. 
Mr and Mrs D were first notified of the dispute in January 2020.
On 7 July 2020, Mr and Mrs D got in touch with DAS about the dispute. They said they had 
appointed a solicitor in Scotland and explained the dispute had been going on for 
approximately three months. Mr D indicated, he wanted to keep the solicitor he and Mrs D 
had appointed if DAS agreed to this. Mr D confirmed theyd already incurred some legal 
costs. DAS said these costs wouldnt be covered under the policy. However, it could look 
into covering costs going forward. DAS advised Mr D not to incur any further costs without 
speaking to the claim department first.
On 8 July 2020, DAS sent Mr D a letter which explained the next steps.
On 15 July 2020, Mr D called DAS and asked for an update. The agent he spoke with 
explained the claim was still going through policy checks, however he promised to get an 
update for him. A few hours later, DAS called Mr D and asked for further information about 
the dispute. Based on the information he provided, DAS advised it could cover the claim. 
Mr D then explained hed like to use his current solicitor instead of using one of DASs 
preferred solicitors. The solicitors fees were discussed, and the call notes recorded Mr D 
knew there was a limit on the hourly rate DAS would pay. The agent confirmed the hourly 
rate was £100 and Mr D explained his solicitors hourly rate was £200, but he was happy to 
pay the balance.
Shortly after this, DAS contacted Mr Ds nominated solicitor and asked him to complete the 
Claims Management Report, so it could confirm the claim had prospects and all the policy 
criteria had been met.
Mr Ds solicitor responded with the information DAS had requested on 17 July 2020. On 
27 July 2020, Mr D called DAS for an update. The agent he spoke with advised DAS had 
received the Claims Management Report, and this was due to be looked at shortly. The 
agent advised DAS would be in touch once terms had been agreed with his solicitor. DAS 
reviewed the Claims Management Report sent by Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor. It had some 
concerns about the report around the rationale provided for prospects. It was also concerned 
the estimated costs provided to resolve the dispute were high, given the value of the buyers 
claim. Mr Ds solicitor had indicated on the Claims Management Report, that it would take 
nine months to resolve the case. The solicitor had also provided an estimate of 100 hours of 
work to conclude the case.
On 4 August 2020, DAS wrote to Mr Ds nominated solicitor and asked for further 
information.
On 17 August 2020, Mr Ds nominated solicitor asked DAS for an update. He referred to the 
report hed sent to DAS on 17 July 2020 and explained his clients were: understandably 
anxious to know whether theyre going to receive cover under their legal expenses insurance 
policy
DAS responded to this email on 25 August 2020. It referred to the email it had sent on 
4 August 2020 and confirmed it was waiting on further information. Mr Ds solicitor 
responded the same day.
On 9 September 2020, DAS reviewed the information it had received. It wrote to Mr D and 
his nominated solicitor on the same day. DAS confirmed it had now completed its review of 
the claim and was happy to appoint Mr Ds solicitor to deal with the claim. DAS confirmed its 
hourly rate was £100 and provided their Working Together Document for Mr Ds solicitor to 
consider. DAS asked Mr Ds solicitor to sign date and return the slip below to show you 
have read, understood and agree to the provisions set out in the Working Together 
Document. DAS explained cover under the policy wouldnt start until it had received the 
form. So, it asked for the form to be returned within seven days from the date of its letter. Mr 
and Mrs D responded to DASs email on the same day. Their solicitor also responded on the 
same day. He advised that we are not prepared to agree to your proposed rate of £100 
per hour. That is not commercially realistic. We would be prepared to take the appointment 
at a rate of £150 ex vat and outlays, or alternatively at a rate of £100 as proposed by you if 
the clients/ your insured are prepared to supplement our fees at our proposed rate. DAS 
was also asked to send a copy of their Working Together Document again, in a format that 
was accessible to the solicitor.
Mr and Mrs D also emailed DAS on 9 September to request that the Working Together 
Document be sent to them.
DAS didnt respond and Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor asked DAS for an update on 16 September 
2020. He asked DAS to confirm if it was happy to accept the rate hed proposed. He also 
raised some concerns with some contradictory information hed found in the Working 
Together Document (which he had by then managed to access). Their solicitor asked DAS 
to confirm where Mr and Mrs D would stand in the event of a shortfall.
Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor sent DAS another email requesting a response on 23 September 
2020. Mr and Mrs D have also said they tried to contact DAS on 16, 17, 18, 23 and 25 
September 2020. Theyve advised that each time they phoned; they were able to speak to 
an agent who said theyd receive a call back within 24 to 48 hours. Mr and Mrs D have 
explained this didnt happen. Mr and Mrs D also sent DAS an email chasing for a response 
on 23 September. In this email they, amongst other things, said that they were sending the 
email having been in a queue for over an hour and that given the time (nearly 6pm) they 
didnt expect to be put through. They explained that they had made multiple calls in the 
previous week and that they were extremely anxious. They also said that they were innocent 
of the charges and they found the process extremely distressing and frustrating and it was 
having a detrimental effect on their health. They said that knowing that they had insurance in 
place would greatly alleviate their distress.
On 28 September 2020, DAS responded to the emails it had received from Mr and Mrs Ds 
solicitor. It confirmed the solicitor was now appointed. It said it was unable to increase the 
hourly rate of £100. However, it had no objection to the policy holder entering into a top up 
agreement. DAS also answered the questions the solicitor had raised about the Working 
Together Document. It also confirmed it would backdate cover to 15 July 2020.The solicitor confirmed on the same day he was happy to proceed on the basis set out. Mr 
and Mrs D were copied in on the email response sent by their solicitor.
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy about the delays they experienced and the lack of contact from 
DAS. Theyre also unhappy with DASs decision not to vary the hourly rate paid under the 
policy. Theyve said they had to agree to terms which they dont think are fair. Mr and Mrs D 
have said they were left with few options as to how to proceed and theyve had to accept 
terms which they still find unacceptable. To resolve things, Mr and Mrs D want DAS to agree 
to pay their solicitor an hourly rate of £150. They also want the investigator to consider that 
the delays they experienced meant that they have been refused some additional support 
from the government for their business.
The investigator didnt agree that DAS should pay the solicitors hourly rate of £150. She 
thought the policy was clear that a rate of £100 per hour would be paid and that if a policy 
holder chose not to use a preferred solicitor then they would be responsible for paying any 
additional costs that resulted from the solicitor charging a higher rate. She also thought that 
applying a rate of £100 per hour was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
But she did think that the delays Mr D experienced  from 9 to 28 September 2020  caused 
some inconvenience. She said she could only consider distress and inconvenience to Mr D 
as he was the policyholder. To resolve things, she thought DAS should pay Mr D £100. 
Finally, she didnt think that she could safely say that DAS is responsible for Mr and Mrs D 
not receiving the support from the government that they had mentioned.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They explained that because of the way DAS handled their claim 
for a period of about 11 weeks, they understood that they had no insurance cover. They 
believed that all the rapidly mounting costs during this period would have to be met entirely 
by them despite their claim being approved in principle. They say they could not have 
afforded this as they have limited savings and a very low income. 
The investigator issued a second view. In it she said she didnt think DAS materially delayed 
the claim until 16 September and by 28 September 2020, it had put things right. She 
acknowledged that this had been a very distressing time for Mr and Mrs D. But she didnt 
think all the distress was caused by the delay, there were other things such as the litigation 
itself and the effects of the pandemic which contributed to their distress. So overall, she felt 
compensation of £100 was fair. She didnt think she could ask DAS to do more about the 
hourly rate given it had acted in line with the policy terms and she has not seen any 
evidence that Mr and Mrs Ds case couldnt have been dealt with by a panel solicitor.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They recognised DAS backdated their claim but felt this in no way 
compensated them for the extreme stress, panic, and depression they felt during what was 
an extremely busy time in the build up to the October pre court hearing. They were left for 
months not knowing if they would have any support whatsoever while their legal costs were 
spiralling.
My provisional decision
I set out my thinking in a provisional decision on 17 January 2021. In it I said:
Consumers must be able to exercise choice with regard to their legal representatives. I 
asked DAS about the choice within its panel available to Mr and Mrs D. It confirmed it had 
only one panel firm in Scotland that would have been able to act in this type of case. It did, 
however, say that there have been many occasions when a non-panel firm has agreed to its 
terms of £100 per hour.I thought about whether the absence of a choice within its panel should impact my thoughts 
on whether it was reasonable for DAS to only pay Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors £100 per hour. I 
have decided that in this case it doesnt. Mr and Mrs D didnt contact DAS when they first 
became aware of the claim in January 2020. By the time they contacted DAS their solicitor 
was already instructed and had carried out some work  indeed on 18 July he confirmed to 
DAS that he had drafted his clients Defences and they had approved them although they 
hadnt been lodged yet. In these circumstances I am not surprised that Mr and Mrs D didnt 
wish to change solicitors at this stage.
I think had Mr and Mrs D contacted DAS when they first became aware of the claim it is 
most likely they would have been able to shop around and find a solicitor who would act for 
them at the rate DAS said it would pay. The rate of £100 per hour is set out in the policy on 
the second page of the legal expenses section. It is also made clear- on the first page of the 
legal expenses section - that if the policy holder decides not to use a preferred law firm that 
the policy holder will be responsible for any costs which fall outside the DAS standard terms 
of appointment. Mr and Mrs D chose not to use its preferred law firm or to try to get another 
firm to agree to DASs rate of £100 per hour. DAS told them very early on that this would 
mean they would be responsible for any additional costs. Nothing I have seen suggests the 
legal proceedings they are involved in are particularly complex and so I have no reason to 
believe that DASs preferred law firm or another firm wouldnt have been able to act for them 
at the rate of £100 per hour. In these circumstances it does not seem fair to expect DAS to 
meet the extra costs which result from Mr and Mrs Ds preference to remain with the lawyers 
they had instructed before they notified DAS of the claim.
I was very sorry to hear about the distress Mr and Mrs D have experienced since they first 
heard about their buyers claim. I can understand why they feel that their distress has been 
greatly increased by DAS. I think again it is worth noting that DAS was notified about the 
claim in July and it seems Mr and Mrs D first became aware of it in January 2020; so it does 
appear the biggest delay in getting confirmation of cover came from Mr and Mrs Ds failure to 
notify DAS at the earliest opportunity.
I dont think DAS did anything to deliberately hold up the claim to reduce its liability. The 
investigator has set out in a lot of detail how she thinks DAS responded at crucial points 
generally in a timely manner. I agree with her analysis. I also agree with her that DAS did 
cause unnecessary delays in September. And I agree with her that when assessing the 
impact of the delays it is necessary to consider that not all the stress Mr and Mrs D were 
experiencing was a result of the delays caused by DAS. To put it simply, the litigation itself 
was stressful as were the other challenges that Mr and Mrs D were facing. 
Where I do disagree with the investigator is what is fair compensation for the stress Mr and 
Mrs D were facing that was caused by the delays. It is clear to me from reading Mr and 
Mrs Ds contemporaneous account  the email sent whilst they were on another long hold 
waiting to speak to DAS  and from what they have subsequently told us that DASs delays 
made a stressful situation much worse for Mr and Mrs D. As it turned out DAS agreed to pay 
a contribution towards the solicitors fees from 15 July. I think this was a fair and reasonable 
thing for it to do. But until that was confirmed to Mr and Mrs D I think they were getting 
increasingly anxious and desperate. Given:
the length of time they spent on hold over a number of calls;
the fact they didnt receive promised call-backs despite them arranging their lives to 
be around to receive these calls; and
the sense of intense frustration and distress caused by the delays
I think it would be reasonable for DAS legal to pay Mr and Mrs D £300.
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs D have said about failing to receive a government grant 
because they had previously failed to register with the local council due to the stress caused by DASs failure to deal with their claim in a timely manner. I dont think I can fairly blame 
DAS for this. Mr and Mrs D have told us the litigation itself was stressful as were the other 
things happening at the time. So, I cant be certain that but for the delays that Mr and Mrs D 
would have registered with the council.
Responses to my provisional decision
DAS has accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs D responded to my provisional decision to say that the letter from their buyers 
solicitor (which they saw on 20 January 2020) was the first intimation of possible legal action 
to be taken against them. They say: The feeling was that we should wait and see if the 
[buyers] were indeed serious about launching such a petty litigation case. We saw no need 
therefore to get in touch with our insurance at this stage. The first confirmation of Legal 
Proceedings was the arrival of the court papers. They were shocked by the court papers 
arrival and the tightness of the schedule demanded of them, giving them only two weeks in 
which to procure a new solicitor and respond to their demands, or to pay the large sum of 
money. They say they couldnt find anyone with space to take their case on and everyone 
had fees of far greater than £100 per hour. Their priority was to establish contact with a 
solicitor to act for them very quickly, and only after they had done this were, they able to 
consider if they had insurance which might assist them. 
They say the period of 10 weeks whilst they waited to learn if they had cover was an 
intensely stressful period and this stress was due almost entirely to being unable to contact 
DAS or confirm insurance cover. They remind me that the cover was only backdated after 
they requested this.
They say once cover was confirmed it was far too late for DAS to advise them of their 
options and its preferences in how they should act or discuss with them how they should 
proceed. They say that  given their experience with DAS - they had no confidence that a 
solicitor supplied by DAS would act in their best interests, rather than finding the cheapest 
option for DAS. They think there is an inherent conflict of interest if DAS employs a solicitor 
to act both on their behalf and by default also on its behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds insurance policy gives them access to a helpline. The policy makes clear 
that as soon as they have a legal problem that may require help, they should phone the 
helpline. It also says that they should report details of any claim as soon as possible. Whilst I 
understand why Mr and Mrs D delayed contacting DAS I do think that had they contacted 
DAS in January 2020 - when they were aware that their buyers were seeking payment from 
them for the cost of works  they could have avoided some of the stress they suffered later.
If they had contacted DAS earlier, they would have also avoided the frantic scramble to get a 
solicitor once they received court papers. DAS has told us that there have been many 
occasions when a non-panel firm has agreed to its terms of £100 per hour. I appreciate that 
this isnt Mr and Mrs Ds experience but they were seeking a firm to act for them with an 
impending deadline and so I dont think their experience persuades me that if they had 
contacted DAS earlier that a firm satisfactory to them couldnt have been found to work at 
DASs rate. I therefore dont think I can fairly say that DAS should pay an increased hourly 
rate for the legal work.I note Mr and Mrs Ds comments about a panel firm having a conflict of interest. Solicitors 
have strict professional duties and I have seen nothing to suggest that DASs panel firm 
would not have met those high standards.
Mr and Mrs D have said in response to my provisional decision that for the period of ten 
weeks whilst they were waiting for confirmation of cover the stress they experienced was 
almost entirely to being unable to contact DAS or confirm insurance cover. When they first 
came to this service, they described the court case itself as very stressful and DASs 
actions as making it doubly stressful. They have also described the stress they experienced 
caused by the pandemic in particular having to home school and manage their business. So, 
Im not persuaded that their stress was wholly attributable to DASs failures. And as I said 
above it remains my view that if they had contacted DAS when they first became aware of 
the potential for legal action then much of the stress could have been avoided.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I remain satisfied that the compensation I set out in the 
provisional decision  of £300 - is fair.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited pay 
Mr and Mrs D £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman