DRN-4009349
The complaint
Mr J complains Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) mis-led him to believe he could buy the car he 
acquired under a hire agreement. He also complains he was mis-sold a maintenance 
package.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr J entered into a 48 month hire agreement for a new car. He later 
extended it to 60 months, meaning it would end in March 2023.
Around May 2022, Mr J contacted Lex to ask whether he was able to pay off the remaining 
instalments to settle the agreement. He told our service this was because he intended to 
apply for a loan and he preferred not to have these payments considered as outgoing 
expenses in the application. Lex said that wouldnt be possible and the only option would be 
to end the agreement and he would be required to pay 50% of the remaining instalments, 
then the car would be collected. Mr J applied for a loan thereafter.
In July 2022, Mr J asked Lex whether he could buy the car. He was told he could do so 
directly without the need for it to be sold to a third party. He later found out that was 
incorrect. He complained. He also said the maintenance package was mis-sold as the car 
came with a three year warranty but he wasnt made aware of this. 
 
Lex said they provided correct information about the end of contract option in May 2022. 
However they accepted Mr J was given incorrect information during the call in July 2022 
about him being able to buy the car directly. They said it must be sold to a third party who 
has no financial connection to him. They denied the maintenance package had been mis-
sold. They apologised and offered £25 compensation. This was later increased to £125.
Unhappy with their response, Mr J referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He concluded Lex provided correct information 
about the end of contract option. He said Lex had provided fair compensation to reflect the 
mis-information he was given about the purchase of the car. Lastly, he said he didnt believe 
the maintenance package had been mis-sold. 
Mr J disagreed and maintained his position. He said had he been given the right information 
about buying the car, he wouldve made arrangements to do so before applying for the loan 
meaning he wouldve been able to borrow more money.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe Lex has done enough to put things right. Ill explain why. 
Mr J acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated credit agreement and as a 
result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
End of contract option
In May 2022, Mr J spoke to Lex about whether it would be possible to pay the outstanding 
rentals upfront to settle the agreement. Ive listened to that call and I find the agent gave 
clear and fair information. He said Mr J wouldnt be able to do this. He was told the only 
option would be to end the agreement and he would be required to pay 50% of the 
outstanding rental payments. He confirmed arrangements would then be made for the car to 
be collected. At no point can I hear the advisor say Mr J could buy or sell the car.
Im satisfied the information given to Mr J by Lex was fair and correct about what would 
happen should Mr J decide to settle the hire agreement early so I cant say they did anything 
wrong in that respect. 
Buying the car
Mr J says he wanted to keep the car. He complains he received conflicting information from 
Lex as to whether he could buy it directly. He said had he been given correct information, he 
wouldve arranged for a third party to buy the car prior to him applying for the loan. 
As a starting point, Ive referred to the agreement. The terms say:
 You will not own the vehicle during or after this agreement. You must not claim you own it, 
attempt to sell it, create charges over it, sub-hire or permit others to obtain rights over it
I must stress under car hire agreements such as this, the individual doesnt own the car. This 
is a common term in such agreements and I dont find Lexs above term to be unusual. This 
meant Mr J didnt own the car and he had no right to own or sell it. At the end of the hire 
period, he would be required to return the car to Lex. Equally, having carefully read the 
terms, theres nothing to indicate he has the right or option to buy the car. Mr J signed the 
agreement at inception so Im satisfied he was aware of the same. 
Lex said during the call in July 2022, Mr J was told he could buy the car directly from a third 
party (who I will refer to as B). They accept this was incorrect information. As its not in 
dispute this was a failing by Lex, I dont find its necessary to listen to that call. What is left 
for me to decide is whether Lexs offer of £125 compensation is a fair resolution of the 
complaint. Having carefully thought about it, I believe it is. 
Mr J maintains he couldve bought the car from B or made arrangements for a third party to 
do so prior to applying for the loan. Hes provided evidence of B asking for information to 
provide quotes to buy the car. He says this demonstrates he can buy the car however I can 
see it says Please note the vehicle cannot be purchased by the current lessee, a director, or 
any company or individual with a financial link to the lessee. This would suggest Mr J 
couldnt buy the car directly from B. 
From my limited research, it would appear B buys cars that have come to an end of a hire 
agreement with Lex. B then sells the car, potentially at auction, to businesses or directly with 
the public. I must stress B is a separate entity to Lex so its up to them who they decide to 
sell the cars to. I cant reasonably hold Lex responsible for the actions of B, nor can I fairly 
say Lex are obliged to provide this as an end of contract option. I remain of the opinion Mr J 
doesnt have the right to buy the car. But I can understand why the wrong information given 
in Julys call confused matters and caused frustration as Mr J was likely led to believe buying 
the car was an end of contract option. I note the information Mr J has provided by B says the following:
Contract charges - The purchase price is exclusive of the lease agreement and does not 
include any monies due or termination charges applicable under the agreement, this 
includes extended rentals, early termination charges and excess mileage charges if 
applicable.
In my opinion, this indicates the purchase of the car would be separate to the hire 
agreement. It would appear if Mr J wanted to purchase the car via B, it would be necessary 
to end the hire agreement and pay 50% of the outstanding rentals plus any other charges. 
This is the same information he was told in Mays call so I cant reasonably say it led to 
detriment or the financial losses as reported by Mr J. So it follows I wont be asking Lex to 
compensate him for this. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Lex acted fairly and in line with the terms by 
confirming Mr J couldnt buy the car under the hire agreement. They accept he was given 
wrong information about this and offered £125 compensation. Given the circumstances and 
the likely impact on Mr J, I believe this is a fair resolution.
Maintenance package
Mr J complains he was mis-sold the maintenance package as he wasnt told the car came 
with a three year warranty. He said he wouldve paid for anything not covered by the 
warranty. 
Based on the agreement, the maintenance package includes servicing, the replacement of 
tyres, rescue and recovery (including roadside assistance), etc. It covers the general 
maintenance of the car to ensure its kept in good working order. Such services are unlikely 
to be included in a cars warranty which normally covers the sudden and unexpected failure 
of mechanical or electrical components. Its clear the maintenance package provides 
additional benefits over and above the warranty and for a longer period, that is the entire 
duration of the hire agreement. 
Mr J has told our service he chose to purchase the maintenance package, which would 
suggest he knew it was an optional feature with an additional fee but not a requirement of 
the agreement. Overall, there is insufficient evidence for me to reasonably conclude the 
maintenance package was mis-sold to Mr J so I wont be asking Lex to refund these 
charges. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, my decision is Lex Autolease Ltd should pay a total of £125 
compensation to Mr J for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman