DRN-4271171
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited declined a claim he made on 
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr P went to see his GP before he went on holiday with symptoms of 
breathlessness on exertion. The GP did some initial checks and arranged blood tests. 
The GP spoke to Mr P to say some of the blood tests were back and he needed a 
prescription for low iron. Some further results came in but Mr P had already started his trip. 
Due to the outcome of the blood tests the GP referred Mr P to a cardiologist. 
Whilst on holiday Mr P had a stroke and was repatriated to the UK by air ambulance. Hes 
claimed for those costs on his travel insurance policy. AXA declined the claim because they 
said there was no cover for the costs of any ongoing medication, consultation or treatment 
(including any associated, connected, travel, accommodation or expense incurred). Mr P 
complained to AXA, but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
the claim had been fairly declined in line with the policy terms. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. In summary, he says 
he knew nothing about any pre-existing condition, no condition was diagnosed, and a 
layperson couldnt have reasonable foreseen a stroke. So, I need to make a decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
We will not cover:
3. The cost of any ongoing medication, consultation, or treatment (including any 
associated, connected, travel, accommodation or other expense incurred), for which 
the need arises out of or relates to pre-existing conditions, which you knew about, or 
which could have been reasonably foreseen by you, at the time of purchase of this 
insurance or at the time the trip commenced.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on the exclusion Ive outlined above 
Mr P had a consultation with his GP and had undergone tests before he went on 
holiday. He was still waiting for the results of some of those tests when he left the 
UK. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that there was ongoing consultations and 
treatment, even if it was for an unknown issue. 
I think Mr P was aware of the ongoing consultation and treatment because he 
attended the appointment before the trip commenced. Im not suggesting he was 
aware of the diagnosis or that he could have foreseen a stroke. But, Mr P had 
experienced symptoms, sought treatment and had tests before he went on holiday. 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to conclude the stroke was linked to a 
pre-existing condition. Mr P had symptoms of breathlessness on exertion and one of 
the tests included a common cardiology test. The results of that test ultimately led the 
GP to refer Mr P to a cardiologist shortly after hed departed on his holiday. 
Ive taken into account what Mr P has said about not finding out important information 
until hed left on his trip. I also accept there was no diagnosis when he left and that a 
stroke may not have been foreseen. But I still think it was reasonable for AXA to 
conclude that the exclusion applied because there was an ongoing consultation 
and/or treatment for existing symptoms which were, I think, reasonably linked to the 
stroke. I think thats sufficient to meet the relevant exclusion that AXA has relied on in 
the circumstances of this case.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman