DRN-3299692
The complaint
Mr M complains that a conditional sale agreement, provided by Moneybarn No.1 Limited in 
order for him to acquire a used car, was unaffordable. He also says the interest rate charged 
on the credit amount was increased after hed entered into the agreement.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr M found a used car at a dealership that he wanted to acquire. A five-year 
conditional sale agreement was arranged with Moneybarn which had monthly payments set 
at around £357. Mr M says he was told the APR being applied on the agreement was around 
30%, and that he hadnt seen the paperwork for the credit agreement until hed signed it at 
the dealership.
Mr M sent Moneybarn an email in July 2018 querying the APR that had been applied. He 
says he was told by Moneybarn that hed agreed to the interest rate when hed signed the 
agreement.
Mr M started to struggle to make the repayments under the conditional sale agreement, 
missing a payment in December 2018. Mr M continued to make some payments but missed 
others and the arrears on the account grew. Moneybarn issued a default notice to Mr M in 
January 2020 and, due to a lack of payments, the agreement was then terminated in March 
2020 when the arrears were £3,130. However, Mr M has retained possession of the car.
Mr M complained to Moneybarn that the conditional sale agreement had been unaffordable 
for him at the point of supply. He said hed been financially unstable when hed taken out the 
credit agreement. Mr M also said that he thought the APR rate had been altered on his 
agreement after hed taken it out.
Moneybarn didnt uphold his complaint. In regard to the interest rate, it said that the APR 
was clearly set out in the paperwork, as was the actual amount of interest that had been 
added. Moneybarn said nothing had been altered after Mr M had signed the agreement.
In regard to whether the conditional sale agreement had been affordable, Moneybarn said it 
had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks that the conditional sale agreement 
had been affordable for Mr M. It said it had verified Mr Ms income from the two-months 
worth of bank statements hed provided, and that a credit search had been carried out. It 
said, from the bank statements, an average net monthly income for Mr M had been 
calculated as £5,133.70. And, that as the monthly repayments under the agreement were 
under 7% of that income, they were considered affordable for him. Moneybarn also said that 
Mr M had signed the agreement confirming the repayments had been within his means.
Although there had been adverse information on Mr Ms credit file, Moneybarn said he had 
been making payments to all his other credit commitments and there had been no defaulted 
payments for 17 months.
Moneybarn said, although it accepted that Mr Ms income had fluctuated over time, it 
considered that an unexpected change in his financial circumstances, that had arisen after 
hed taken out the agreement, had been the reason for his difficulty meeting the payments.
Mr M was unhappy about Moneybarns view and so complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said he thought 
Moneybarn had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks by obtaining the bank 
statements and undertaking the credit check. Our investigator said, looking at Mr Ms 
monthly income and his committed expenses, the monthly payments set under the 
conditional sale agreement were sustainably affordable for Mr M.
When looking at the APR set on the agreement, our investigator said he was satisfied that 
the rate was clearly shown and that it was reasonable to have expected Mr M to have read 
the terms and conditions. He also said he thought Moneybarn had treated Mr M with 
forbearance when he had experienced difficulties paying. He noted that Moneybarn had set 
up payment plans, breathing space when appropriate and set out Mr Ms options. Our 
investigator thought it wasnt unfair for Moneybarn to have terminated the agreement in 
March 2020, as Mr M had only made two payments in a nine-month period.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said when he had signed the agreement, 
hed been a temporary worker and was self-employed, so all income received was gross and 
not net. He said hed been paying off two CCJs at £350pm, as well as child support which 
hadnt been included in his committed expenditure. Mr M said he had also been paying 
money back to people hed borrowed from.
Mr M also said that he hadnt been told the amount he was paying back as he hadnt been 
provided with time to look at the agreement. Mr M said hed only found out the APR when he 
was sent a copy of the agreement after hed signed it. He said the rate wasnt what hed 
originally been told.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
When looking at whether a credit agreement was fair and affordable, I needed to take into 
account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. There were two 
overarching questions I needed to think about in order to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These were:
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to sustainably 
repay the agreement
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Moneybarn said that the necessary checks were carried out to ensure this loan had been 
affordable for Mr M by looking at his income via bank statements, and also his credit history. 
I hadnt seen any evidence that it had reviewed his committed outgoings as it appeared to 
have relied upon the agreements payments being just under 7% of what had been 
calculated as Mr Ms net monthly income.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), contains rules for responsible lending by consumer credit companies and to assist in assessing a consumers ability to repay credit. 
Checks carried out by lenders should be conducted to ensure any lending is affordable and 
sustainable for the borrower, and so should be borrower focused and proportionate to the 
circumstances of the credit. That means things like the amount being borrowed, the length of 
the loan, the size of the repayments as well as credit history should be considered.
The conditional sale agreement for the car was for 60 months. The cars price was
£9,995 and Mr M had made an advance payment of £400, leaving a balance of £9,595 to be 
paid via the credit agreement. Interest charges on the agreement amounted to £11,509.89 
making a total to pay of £21,104.89. Payments were £357.71pm.
Here, Mr M had provided two months of bank statements. I hadnt seen that any questions 
were asked as to whether he - was employed or self/employed; was working full or part time; 
was contracted for weeks/months; was single or with a partner or had dependents. I also 
hadnt seen whether Mr M had been asked to set out his committed monthly expenses such 
as rent, utilities and council tax.
The results of the credit check carried out by Moneybarn on Mr M werent available, but I 
had seen a credit report provided by Mr M which showed that he had recently had three 
loans, two of which had been satisfied and one which, although showing late payments, had 
been satisfied the month this agreement was taken out. However, this report was newer than 
the one which would have been seen by Moneybarn, and so it was possible there was other 
information present which had since dropped off due to time.
I had also seen that there were two County Court Judgements (CCJ) registered against Mr 
M in 2014 - one for £926 in respect of council tax which was satisfied in 2019, and another 
for £11,529 which was in respect of a bank loan. Mr M said that he was paying around 
£350pm in total towards these judgements.
Looking at the amount of credit, the length of the agreement, the size of the monthly 
repayments and that there were two CCJs to settle, I didnt think Moneybarn had carried out 
proportionate and reasonable checks. I hadnt seen any evidence that it had asked any 
questions as to Mr Ms work, level of income, or outgoings. The statements provided by Mr 
M didnt appear to have shown a regular amount of money coming in as the amounts 
fluctuated and I thought this should have prompted more enquiries from Moneybarn as to his 
earnings. These statements only provided a small snapshot of his income and outgoings and 
I thought it was unfair for Moneybarn to assume his monthly income would be at that level 
throughout the year. It would have been reasonable and proportionate for Moneybarn to 
have asked more questions about Mr Ms income and committed expenditure to obtain a 
fuller picture of his financial situation.
Moneybarn appeared to have based its decision that the credit agreement was affordable 
because it had amounted to less than 7% of what had been calculated as Mr Ms net 
monthly income. I thought it would have therefore been reasonable and proportionate for 
Moneybarn to have checked that it was satisfied that the income shown in the statements 
represented his monthly income position.
I appreciated Mr M signed the conditional sale agreement confirming it was affordable for 
him. But I didnt think that just because Mr M had agreed it was affordable, Moneybarn didnt 
have to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks that this was the case for the 
agreement. It was aware that Mr M had struggled to manage credit and other payments in 
the past, and Moneybarn acknowledged that it was due to Mr Ms poor credit history that he 
was seeking a credit agreement with itself. I thought it was reasonable to say that 
Moneybarn should have been aware that this agreement would be a substantial commitment 
for Mr M to meet and therefore checks as to his income and outgoings would have been required.
As Moneybarn hadnt asked about Mr Ms income and outgoings then I couldnt reasonably 
say it had made a fair lending decision based on reasonable and proportionate checks.
The next issue I therefore needed to consider was, if reasonable and proportionate checks 
had been carried out, what would they have revealed? Here, Id seen that Mr M was, at the 
time he entered into the credit agreement, working on a temporary contract and was self- 
employed. This meant that all payments he was receiving were gross and not net as had 
been assumed by Moneybarn.
Moneybarn calculated that Mr M had a net monthly income of £5,133.70, based on the 
payments hed received from a company over the two months covered by the bank 
statements. This equated to an annual income of around £90,000. However, Mr M had 
provided me with his tax returns for the years 2017/18 and 2018/19, which showed Mr M 
earnt £34,000 and £29,500 respectively. I thought it was fair to say that Mr Ms annual 
income wasnt close to £90,000 and the calculation by Moneybarn of Mr Ms net monthly 
income had been inaccurate and inflated.
As Mr M was self-employed, I thought it was more likely than not that his income would 
fluctuate, and Id seen Moneybarn would also have accepted that. However, if he had been 
asked about his income by Moneybarn at the point he entered into the credit agreement, 
then I thought it was more likely than not that he would have declared it as £34,000. This 
figure would have been corroborated by the amounts he was shown as being paid in his 
bank statements. This would mean the monthly payments for the conditional sale agreement 
were around 16% of his income.
An income of £34,000 equates to a monthly income of £2,230. Id seen that during the life of 
this credit agreement Mr M s partner had a baby, but I didnt know whether his partner had 
contributed to the expenses of the household. But this credit agreement was Mr Ms 
responsibility and so its affordability shouldnt rely on the potential income of his partner.
Id seen that Mr M was covering the following expenses each month: 
Rent £1250
£60 gas and electricity
£30 water rates
£350 towards his CCJs
£100 food
£20 gym
£40 TV/internet
£53 insurance
£30 mobile
£28 bank account fees
£63 health insurance
This amounted to a total of £2,024. There was also a regular payment of £350pm to his 
accountants, though I was unclear whether this payment included a payment towards his tax 
and national insurance since Mr M received his income as a gross payment. But, looking at 
the total amount paid to the accountant, I thought that would be likely.
Mr Ms expenses were complicated by various payments leaving his account, which he said 
were payments to others from whom hed borrowed. As the picture of these expenses was 
unclear, I didnt take them into account since looking at the above figures I could see that he 
would have been left with insufficient disposable income to sustainably meet the conditional 
sale agreements monthly cost. Mr M would have had a disposable figure of around £206pm.I thought, looking at the evidence that had been provided, that had Moneybarn undertaken 
reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ms income at the time he took out the 
conditional sale agreement, it wouldnt have found he could sustainably afford it.
The final question I needed to consider was whether Moneybarn had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way. Although Id seen it had terminated the agreement due to 
Mr Ms defaulting on his payments, I didnt think Moneybarn had acted unfairly other than not 
proportionately checking the credit agreements affordability. Id seen that Moneybarn had 
treated Mr M with forbearance when hed struggled to make payments, it had agreed 
payment holidays and set payment plans that Mr M agreed to meet. The credit agreement 
was terminated after Mr M had made only two payments in a nine-month period. I 
understood that Mr M still had possession of the car.
Mr M had also complained about the interest rate charged on the conditional sale 
agreement, as he said he was misled on the rate. But, looking at an email he sent 
Moneybarn in July 2018, he said he took out a loan with an APR of 46% and was querying 
how the charges had been worked out. I thought this showed Mr M was aware of the APR 
rate but had misunderstood how it was to be applied. However, since I thought Moneybarn 
would have considered the conditional sale unaffordable for him had it done reasonable and 
proportionate checks, then I didnt have to look at the interest rate issue further.
So, for the reasons given above I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint that the conditional 
sale agreement was unaffordable for him.
Although the credit agreement shouldnt have been offered to Mr M, when looking at a fair 
resolution for his complaint I thought it was fair I took into account that Mr M had been able 
to use the car and that he still has it in his possession. In the circumstances I thought it 
would be fair for the car to now be returned to Moneybarn, as had the agreement not been 
terminated, I would have asked Moneybarn to end it with nothing further to pay.
I also thought it was fair and reasonable that Mr M paid for the usage he has had from the 
car. There wasnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage should be. However, in
deciding whats fair and reasonable, Id thought about the amount of interest that was 
charged under the agreement, the usage Mr M likely had of the car and what his costs to 
stay mobile might have been had he not entered into this agreement. In doing so, I thought a 
fair amount he should pay was £200pm for each month he had use of the car. It seems Mr M 
had use of the car for around 44 months, which amounted to £8,800. I therefore thought it 
would be fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to retain any payments made by Mr M up to this 
amount
I asked Moneybarn to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M.
Calculate the total amount paid by Mr M to date including the initial payment.
If this amount is more than £8,800 then it should reimburse him the 
amount paid above this figure.
If the amount is less than £8,800, agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr 
M for the balance.
Remove any adverse information regarding this account from his credit file.
However, if Mr M subsequently defaults on payments due under any agreed payment plan 
for this account whether he retains the car or returns it, then Moneybarn may report that 
information to the credit reference agencies.Moneybarn hasnt asked me to look at any parts of my provisional decision again. Mr M has 
asked that I reconsider the monthly amount I think would be reasonable for him to pay for 
the use he has had of the car while in his possession. He says as he has had to pay 
insurance and maintenance costs it will actually cost him more than £200pm to use the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view that the credit agreement was unaffordable for Mr M and that 
Moneybarn failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks as to Mr Ms income and 
expenses. Im therefore upholding his complaint.
While I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr M, I also havent changed my view as 
to what would be a fair amount for him to pay regarding the usage he has had from the car 
while it was in his possession. As I explained above, there isnt a set formula to use but I 
have taken into account what his costs to stay mobile might have been had he not had this 
particular agreement. I think its unlikely Mr M would have chosen not to have a car at all, 
and any car ownership means additional expenses are incurred such as insurance and 
maintenance costs. I think its reasonable to say even if Mr M hadnt entered into this 
agreement, he would have faced those costs in any event for another car. So, I think its fair 
that I dont take them into account when looking at the monthly amount Mr M should pay for 
the actual usage he has had from this car. I still think its fair he pays £200pm for the 44 
months hes had the car in his possession which amounts to £8,800. 
Putting things right
Im asking Moneybarn to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M.
Calculate the total amount paid by Mr M to date including the initial payment.
If this amount is more than £8,800 then it should reimburse him the 
amount paid above this figure.
If the amount is less than £8,800, agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr 
M for the balance.
Remove any adverse information regarding this account from his credit file.
However, if Mr M subsequently defaults on payments due under any agreed payment plan 
for this account whether he retains the car or returns it, then Moneybarn may report that 
information to the credit reference agencies.
My final decision
As set out above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint that the conditional sale agreement was 
not sustainably affordable for him. As the agreement has already been terminated, Im 
asking Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M.
Calculate the total amount paid by Mr M to date including the initial payment.
If this amount is more than £8,800 then it should reimburse him the 
amount paid above this figure.
If the amount is less than £8,800, agree a suitable repayment plan with 
Mr M for the balance.Remove any adverse information regarding this account from his credit file.
If Mr M does not make payments as required by any agreed payment plan after the 
settlement of his complaint, then Moneybarn may record this adverse information on his 
credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman