DRN-4332234
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd. He isnt happy about the way 
it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr F made a claim under his motor insurance policy after he was involved in an accident. 
Accredited looked into the damage caused and decided his car was repairable. 
Unfortunately the repair was delayed for quite a period of time, so Mr F complained to 
Accredited and then this Service. Mr F thought he should be compensated and that he 
should get some of his insurance premium and car tax back. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F and he thought the complaint should be upheld. 
So, he thought Accredited should pay Mr F £200 by way of compensation. Although he didnt 
think Accredited should pay Mr Fs car tax or his insurance premium as Mr F wouldve 
always had to pay these. 
Mr F accepted the compensation offered but thought he should still get some of his premium 
returned while Accredited maintained that it wasnt responsible for any delay. So the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Fs frustration here as hes been left without his car for a considerable 
amount of time. And as his car was new Mr F felt he missed some of the fun of having his 
new car and I agree that he should be compensated for this as well as for any avoidable 
delay. I know Accredited feels that all of the delays were outside of its control. But even if 
that was the case then I would still feel that Mr F should be compensated as he was without 
his new car for a long period of time which wasnt his fault. Indeed, when Mr F submitted his 
complaint to this Service he was still without his car.
However, I agree with the investigator that although some of the delays were unavoidable 
(as the repair was complicated) that there were some avoidable delays as well. And Mr F 
had to chase for updates when he should have been kept up to date, especially given the 
long delay in repairing his car. So, I agree that Mr F should be compensated for this and 
£200 compensation feels fair. 
Fortunately, Mr F had the use of a courtesy car which limited the impact on him as he was 
able to stay mobile and drive, although I accept that this may have been inconvenient and 
the car may not have been as good as his own. And his car tax and insurance premium 
would always have been due (especially as Mr F had made a claim under the policy) so I 
dont think Accredited should contribute here. I know Mr F feels his cars value had fallen 
because it was older, but this would always have happened and the fact that he has used 
the courtesy car as opposed to his own means that his car should have a lot less mileage on 
now which would mean the cars value was higher. 
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Accredited to pay Mr F £200 compensation for the clear stress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd should 
pay Mr F £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman