DRN-1429265
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim made on his private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W had the benefit of a Healthier Solutions medical insurance policy with Aviva. He had 
option C2 that included reduced out-patient cover. 
In early 2019, Mr W underwent an operation to remove a kidney stone. As it transpired the 
kidney stone was too large and he ended up having a stent fitted. The stent was removed 
around five days later at an out-patients appointment.
Aviva declined to cover the hospital and consultants costs incurred in connection with the 
removal of the stent because the policy didnt cover out-patient appointments. Mr W accepts 
that. However, in this particular case, he thinks common sense should prevail and the out-
patient costs should be covered by Aviva. He says Aviva covered the costs of the stent 
being inserted and Aviva should cover its removal. He also says the removal of stent wasnt 
a self-contained event; it only exists because of the earlier operation he had. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint; he didnt think Aviva had unfairly declined 
the claim. Mr W disagrees. His complaint has been passed to me to look at everything 
afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
The policy Mr W had the benefit of doesnt cover treatment as an out-patient - although it 
can cover up to two consultation with a specialist each policy year, and limited diagnostic 
tests.
An out-patient is defined by the policy as a patient who attends a hospital, consulting room 
or out-patient clinic and is not admitted as a day-patient or in-patient. Mr W accepts that the 
appointment he attended to remove the stent constituted an out-patient appointment.
 
So, the crux of the issue for me to determine is whether its fair and reasonable for Aviva to 
rely on the terms of the policy to decline the costs charged for the out-patient appointment, in 
the circumstances of this case. Im satisfied that it is. 
I know Mr W will be disappointed, and whilst I understand the points hes made, his 
particular policy option is priced so that out-patient appointments arent covered. This option 
is less comprehensive than other options available, but thats the policy Mr W selected, and 
the premium reflected his choice of cover. This being so, Im satisfied Aviva hasnt treated 
him unfairly by relying on the policy term when assessing his claim, even though the out-
patient appointment in this case was connected to the surgery he had less than a week 
before. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman