DRN-3410242
The complaint
Mr W complains Nationwide Building Society acted unfairly when it defaulted his
accounts.
What happened
Mr W had two current accounts with Nationwide  a Flex account and a FlexDirect 
account. He says hed been the victim of various phishing scams and there were 
transactions using his card which he didnt recognise. He says he walked away from the 
accounts in January 2015 because of what had happened.
In June 2016, Mr W says Nationwide applied a default to his account. He says the balance 
in the account was made up solely of charges and he says the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) has told him that Nationwide cant apply a default in these circumstances.
Mr W says he applied for a Debt Relief Order in February 2019. So, he says Nationwide 
shouldnt have sold his account to a third party. He says hes been caused considerable 
inconvenience because of what happened. He cant get a contract phone or any form of 
credit. Mr W also says that Nationwide shouldve taken certain conditions, including 
conditions affecting his mental health, into account under the Equality Act. He complained 
to Nationwide.
Nationwide investigated his complaint. It didnt uphold his complaint. It said he hadnt told it 
hed applied for a Debt Relief Order until after it had sold the accounts. But it said it would 
pull his Flex account back from its external agents so that it could now be closed in line 
with the Debt Relief Order. It had only received notification of the Debt Relief Order on 9 
December 2020.
Nationwide said that it had sold the FlexDirect account in October 2018, which was before 
Mr W had applied for the Debt Relief Order. It said it had defaulted this account in 
September 2016 because he hadnt made any payments to it after February 2016.
Mr W wasnt satisfied. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into
his complaint. She thought Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong when it had defaulted his 
accounts. She said Mr W hadnt paid any money into his FlexDirect account for five months 
prior to it being defaulted and he hadnt paid any money into his Flex account for three 
months before it was defaulted.
Our investigator said the ICO guidance indicated that accounts could be defaulted within a 
period of three to six months after payments into the account were stopped. She said shed 
checked the balances in the accounts, and she was satisfied these were not made up only 
of fees and charges. She noted that Nationwide had now received a copy of the Debt Relief 
Order and arranged for the Flex Account to be closed in line with that Order. 
The FlexDirect account was sold prior to the date when Mr W said hed applied for the Debt 
Relief Order. So, Nationwide didnt have to take any action regarding that.
Our investigator said Nationwide hadnt been made aware of the issues with Mr Ws 
health. Nationwide said that even if it had been aware of these issues its response to his 
complaint wouldnt have been different. It said, if hed made it aware of his issues, it may 
have been able to refer him to its Specialist Support Team. But it couldnt say what 
wouldve happened if he had been referred. So, there was no change to what our 
investigator had said.
Mr W didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see there were two accounts here. Ill comment on the operation 
of each of these accounts separately, in the first instance and then Ill 
comment on why Ive provisionally decided that this complaint should 
be upheld:
The Flex Account
The account was opened in or around April 2015. Mr W arranged for his 
social security benefits to be paid directly into the account. The account 
appears to have been operated mainly in credit until around August 
2015. There is evidence of significant numbers of gambling transactions 
on the account from shortly after the date when it was opened.
Mr W appears to have disputed a large number of transactions on his 
account. The transactions disputed all appear to relate to gambling sites. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide details about this. But, I can see 
credits to the account with the narrative transfer from sundries. 
Nationwide says this means there was a credit to the account which was 
either a goodwill gesture or a refund for disputed transactions. There are 
credits of this nature in October, November and December 2015.
The last transactions Mr W carried out on this account were in January and 
February of 2016. There were numerous payments made from the account 
on 27 January 2016 and 16 February 2016. The narrative on the statement 
is Visa Purchases. I asked Nationwide to clarify what this meant. It told 
me that these were purchases made using Mr Ws card. It wasnt able to 
provide any further details, due to the time that had elapsed.
Ive noted that before these transactions were debited to the account 
the account had a small debit balance of just over £70.
Nationwide issued a notice of default on 22 January 2016. It says it spoke 
to Mr W by telephone around this time. He told it he didnt intend to repay 
the balance outstanding and that was why it proceeded to default the 
account. It was after this that the card was used to carry out the Visa 
purchases Ive referred to. The transactions that were carried out using the 
card, after the notice of default was issued, brought the balance to over 
£800. Its not clear why Nationwide permitted the purchases to be made 
after a notice of default had been issued. It hasnt been able to provide any 
details about that.Nationwide defaulted the account in March 2016 and sold it in September 
2019. At the date when it sold the account, the Debt Relief Order, which 
was dated February 2019 had been made. Nationwide has now been made 
aware of the Debt Relief Order and has agreed to bring this account back 
under its management so that it can comply with its obligations under the 
Order.
The FlexDirect Account
This account was opened in or about December 2015. Nationwide hasnt 
been able to provide any information about the circumstances surrounding 
the opening of this account or why Mr W requested it.
Mr W appears to have redirected his benefit payments so that they started to 
be paid into the FlexDirect Account from shortly after the date when it was 
opened. By February 2016 the account started to have an overdrawn 
balance from time to time and theres evidence of returned direct debit 
payments.
There is also evidence of significant numbers of gambling transactions on 
this account. And, it appears Mr W raised disputes about these transactions. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide details about this. But, I can see 
credits to the account with the narrative transfer from sundries. Nationwide 
says this means there was a credit to the account which was either a 
goodwill gesture or a refund for disputed transactions. There are credits of 
this nature in February and March 2016.
I can see that the last credit to this account, made by Mr W, was in 
February 2016. June 2016 appears to have been the last time Mr W 
used his card to make payments. By that stage the account had been 
overdrawn for around three months.
Nationwides records show that Mr W reported his card as lost in 
February 2016 and a replacement card was issued to him at that time.
Nationwide says it defaulted the account in September 2016. It says it sent 
Mr W a notice of default before doing this. Debt collection agents were 
appointed and the account was sold in October 2018. At that date the Debt 
Relief Order had not been made. Mr W has provided a copy of the Debt 
Relief Order. It is dated February 2019  which was after the account had 
already been sold.
The Equality Act
Mr W says that Nationwide hasnt treated him in line with its obligations 
under the Equality Act. Hes told us about various conditions which affect 
his day to day activities. Hes mentioned learning difficulties, anxiety, 
autism and an eating disorder. Mr W says he didnt tell Nationwide about 
these conditions. He thought it shouldve known about these matters since 
he believed all companies worked together.
Im very sorry to learn about Mr Ws circumstances and the various 
conditions hes told us about.
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or breached 
its obligations under the Equality Act 2010  thats a matter for the courts. 
Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable taking into account all the circumstances. In order to decide that, we have to consider a number of 
things - including relevant law and what we consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
Ive thought about what Mr W has told us in terms of how the conditions hes 
told us about affected the operation of his accounts with Nationwide.
Mr W told us he has learning difficulties. He says that because of this he 
didnt know he needed to inform Nationwide when he changed his address. 
He says he moved home after hed opened his accounts with Nationwide 
and so he hasnt received correspondence from it informing him about the 
state of his accounts. He also says he didnt know he needed to tell 
Nationwide about any of the conditions which affected his day to day 
activities. He thought that it shouldve known about these matters since he 
believed all companies worked together.
In these circumstances, when thinking about how this complaint should be 
resolved, one of the things Ive thought about is whether Nationwide ought 
reasonably to have been aware of Mr Ws conditions and whether it would be 
fair and reasonable to have required it to have treated him differently as a 
result.
Why I think Nationwide hasnt acted fairly and reasonably
Having looked at the history of both accounts, Ive provisionally decided 
that Nationwide hasnt done everything it couldve done here to treat Mr 
W fairly and reasonably. I say this for mainly the following reasons:
- The volume of disputed transactions on the Flex Account
Nationwide appears to have initially refunded these disputed transactions in 
October 2015. There were further refunds applied to the account in 
November and December 2015. The disputed transactions all appear to 
have related to gambling payments.
I think that the fact Mr W raised a dispute about so many payments wouldve 
provided Nationwide with an opportunity to look in more detail at the 
operation of the account and the gambling transactions in particular. If it had 
done that I think it would have been on enquiry about whether this type of 
account, which permitted Mr W to go into unarranged overdraft, was suitable 
for him.
It doesnt appear to have done that or to have engaged with Mr W to talk to 
him about his circumstances or whether he needed any support. If it had 
done that I think it wouldve become aware of some of the issues that Mr W 
has told us about.
Instead, I can see that the account continued to be overdrawn and a notice 
of default was issued in January 2016. That appears to have been shortly 
after Nationwide says its Collections team had a conversation with Mr W in 
which he told them that he had no intention of repaying the debt that he 
owed.
So, whilst I am satisfied, on balance that Mr W was aware he owed 
Nationwide money, theres no evidence Nationwide talked to him about his 
personal circumstances or the various conditions hes told us about. I 
wouldve expected it to have done that given the history of the account.
- The notice of default on the Flex AccountAs mentioned above a notice of default was issued in January 2016. Mr W 
had already told Nationwide he had no intention of repaying that debt. So, I 
wouldnt have expected Nationwide to have continued to allow Mr W to be 
able to use the account or to increase his unarranged overdraft. But, that 
didnt happen.
Even after the conversation with the Collections department, Nationwide 
permitted Mr W to use the card on his account to carry out further 
transactions in January and February. This increased the overdrawn 
balance from just over £70 to over £800.
Im satisfied, on balance, that it wasnt fair or reasonable for Nationwide to 
have permitted this increase in the overdrawn position, given the 
information it had obtained from Mr W.
- The opening and operation of the FlexDirect Account
Nationwide opened a new FlexDirect account for Mr W in December 2015. 
Theres no information about the circumstances that led to this new account 
being opened or what enquiries Nationwide carried out at the time. But, 
having thought about it, I think Nationwide wouldve had enough information 
in December 2015 to have been put on enquiry about whether the 
FlexDirect account was suitable for Mr W.
From around 2014, Nationwide, along with several other banks, 
entered into a voluntary agreement to offer basic bank accounts to its 
customers.
Nationwide had information about how Mr W had operated his Flex 
account. He was in receipt of benefits and as mentioned above there was 
evidence of significant numbers of gambling transactions on the account 
and returned direct debit payments. So, in these circumstances, I think it 
wouldve been fair and reasonable for Nationwide to have considered 
whether a basic bank account, which wouldnt have permitted Mr W to go 
into unarranged overdraft, wouldve been more suitable for him. It didnt do 
that. Instead it appears to have opened the new FlexDirect account without 
raising any issues.
Even after it issued the notice of default on the Flex Account, Nationwide 
didnt appear to consider whether it also needed to take action on the 
FlexDirect account. Mr W was able to continue using the FlexDirect account 
until at least June 2016. And Nationwide didnt intervene when Mr W started 
to dispute transactions on the FlexDirect Account. This was the same 
pattern of activity as had been present on the Flex Account. Nationwide 
didnt appear to question that. Instead it simply processed several refunds 
for the disputed transactions.
Mr W reported his card lost at the end of February 2016. Nationwide issued 
him with a replacement card and he was able to go on using his account 
and to go further into overdraft. Again, Nationwide didnt appear to look at 
the overall position regarding either the Flex account (which was in default) 
or the pattern of activity on the FlexDirect account.
Having looked at the sequence of events on both of the accounts, Im 
satisfied, on balance, Nationwide missed several opportunities to 
intervene. If it had intervened I dont think Mr W wouldve found himself in 
the position that he did.
What Ive provisionally decided needs to be done to put things rightIn order to put things right, I currently think Nationwide needs to put Mr W 
back in the position he wouldve been in if thered been appropriate 
engagement with him when it should first reasonably have become aware of 
the issues he was experiencing.
The Flex Account
Nationwide started to refund the disputed gambling transactions in October 
2015. So, I think that was the first point when it could reasonably have been 
expected to have intervened here.
Nationwide has brought this account back under its own management 
after it received the Debt Relief Order.
Ive provisionally decided that Nationwide should refund any overdraft 
charges or interest applied to the Flex Account after 1 October 2015. If 
there is an amount outstanding after those amounts are refunded, 
Nationwide should write that amount off. If there is a credit balance after 
those refunds are applied to the account Nationwide should pay that 
amount to Mr W together with 8% simple interest from the 1 October 
2015 until the date of settlement.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair or reasonable to require 
Nationwide to remove the default which it filed about this account.
Mr W says the balance in this account was made up solely of charges and 
hes told us the ICO has told him that Nationwide shouldnt have filed a 
default in these circumstances. But, having looked at the history of this 
account, Im satisfied that the balance was not just made up of fees. I can 
see that part of the overdrawn balance was made up of payments made 
using Mr Ws card. For example, there were undisputed card transactions in 
January and February 2016 from this account.
Having considered everything, Ive provisionally decided I wont require 
Nationwide to remove the default recorded at credit reference agencies for 
this account. It is the case that Mr W knew that he owed Nationwide money 
and he was told during the conversation in January 2016 that a default 
would be filed if he didnt repay that debt. Im also mindful that the default 
was recorded in March 2016  so it will remain on Mr Ws credit file until 
March 2022. In these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to require Nationwide to remove the default.
The FlexDirect Account
In my findings, Ive said that the first point I think Nationwide couldve taken 
different action here was towards the end of 2015 when it started to refund 
the disputed gambling transactions to the Flex Account. If it had done that I 
dont think it wouldve opened the FlexDirect Account in January 2016. It 
may have opened a basic bank account for Mr W at that time  but he 
wouldnt have been able to overdraw that account and there wouldnt have 
been any fees or interest charged.
When the Debt Relief Order was made, the FlexDirect account had already 
been sold. Nationwide says that means its not responsible for having to 
comply with the Order. But, I dont think that leads to a fair outcome here. 
So, I think it needs to bring the FlexDirect Account back under its management. It then needs to refund all fees and interest applied to the 
account from the date when it was opened.
If, after the refunds are applied, there is still a balance outstanding 
Nationwide should write off that amount.
If there is a credit balance Nationwide should refund that amount to Mr W 
together with 8% interest from the date the account was opened until the 
date of settlement. And, in this circumstance, it should also remove any 
adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies about this 
account.
Distress and Inconvenience
Mr W has been inconvenienced as a result of what happened here. 
Hes been able to increase his overall indebtedness and that has 
contributed to the circumstances which meant he had to apply for a 
Debt Relief Order.
Mr Ws also had to progress his complaint to our service. In these 
circumstances, I think Nationwide should pay Mr W £150 by way of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
I intend to require Nationwide Building Society to take the following action:
The Flex Account
Refund any interest or charges applied to the Flex Account 
after 1 October 2015;
If there is a debit balance after the interest or charges have 
been refunded, Nationwide Building Society should write off 
that debit balance;
If there is a credit balance after the interest and charges have 
been refunded, Nationwide Building Society should refund this 
amount to Mr W together with 8%* simple interest from 1 
October 2015 to the date of settlement.
The Flex Direct Account
Refund any interest or charges applied to this account from 
the date it was opened;
If there is a debit balance after the interest or charges have 
been refunded, Nationwide Building Society should write off 
this amount;
If there is a credit balance after the interest and charges have 
been refunded, Nationwide Building Society should refund this 
amount to Mr W together with 8%* simple interest from the date 
the FlexDirect account was opened to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information it has recorded with 
credit reference agencies about this accountNationwide Building Society should pay Mr W £150 by way of 
compensation for the inconvenience hes experienced as a result of 
what happened here.
* If Nationwide Building Society considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mr W it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision.
Nationwide said it was prepared to take the actions set out in my provisional decision.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, Ive no reason to change my 
view about how this complaint should be resolved.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
I now require Nationwide Building Society to take the following actions:
1. The Flex Account
 Refund any interest or charges applied to the Flex Account 
after 1 October 2015;
 If there is a debit balance after the interest or charges have 
been refunded, Nationwide Building Society should write off 
that debit balance;
 If there is a credit balance after the interest and charges have 
been refunded, Nationwide Building Society should refund this 
amount to Mr W together with 8%* simple interest from 1 
October 2015 to the date of settlement.
2. The Flex Direct Account
 Refund any interest or charges applied to this account from 
the date it was opened;
 If there is a debit balance after the interest or charges have 
been refunded, Nationwide Building Society should write off 
this amount;
 If there is a credit balance after the interest and charges have 
been refunded, Nationwide Building Society should refund this 
amount to Mr W together with 8%* simple interest from the date 
the FlexDirect account was opened to the date of settlement; 
 Remove any adverse information it has recorded with 
credit reference agencies about this account.
3. Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr W £150 by way of compensation 
for the inconvenience hes experienced as a result of what happened here.* If Nationwide Building Society considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mr W it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman