DRN-2110357
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about National Westminster Bank Plc allowing his sister to see details of 
his accounts (both his sole account and joint account with his wife, Ms R). He says this was 
a data breach and has caused him ongoing stress and upset. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It is not the role of this service to decide whether theres been a data breach  this is 
the role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Our role is to consider the 
impact that NatWests actions had on Mr N and Ms R.
In this case a mistake was made. Mr N has accounts held jointly with his sister but 
also other accounts in his name and jointly with his wife. When his sister visited a 
NatWest branch she was shown information not only about the accounts she was a 
party to but also Mr Ns other accounts. This shouldnt have happened. 
It isnt our role to punish a business but where a mistake has been we will require the 
business to take the required action to put the customer back in the position they 
would have been had the mistake not happened and, where appropriate, to pay 
compensation.
Mr N raised his complaint on 20 September 2019, and NatWest responded on 
1 October. It accepted that a mistake had been made and explained how this had 
happened. It took steps to address the issue, by re-issuing Mr Ns sister with a new 
debit card and confirming that the previously incorrectly issued card would be 
cancelled. Therefore, I can see that actions were taken to correct the mistake and to 
ensure Mr Ns sister no longer had access to information about Mr Ns accounts to 
which she wasnt a party.
The outstanding issue relates to compensation. This situation has clearly caused 
Mr N upset and he has explained the ongoing impact this is having as well as the 
time he has spent trying to resolve the issue. Given this I agree that compensation 
should be paid.
NatWest initially offered to pay £60 and then £100. Following further discussions and 
consideration it increased its offer to £450 to reflect both time Mr N had spent dealing 
with the issue as well as the distress he had been caused. I appreciate that Mr N 
doesnt think this is enough. However, I find that this is a reasonable offer. I say this 
because NatWest acted in a timely way after Mr N raised his complaint. It took 
actions to correct the mistake that had been made and explained this to Mr N. Mr N 
has said that his sister could have withdrawn money from his accounts without his 
permission but as this didnt happen, I cannot see that this issue has caused Mr N 
any financial loss. 
Mr N had to spend time dealing with this complaint and this has been included in the 
compensation offer. He was initially told the compensation would be paid to an 
account he held with his sister which I agree shouldnt have happened and Mr N 
should confirm with NatWest the account the compensation is to be paid to. I 
appreciate the comments Mr N has made about how upsetting this issue has been 
and the ongoing implications regarding his relationship with this sister, but on 
balance, I find that the offer made by NatWest of a total of £450 is enough 
compensation in this case.
Given the reasons set out above, I find the offer made by NatWest of £450 compensation is 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr N and Ms R should be paid a total of £450 compensation as 
offered by National Westminster Bank Plc (to an account agreed with Mr N) as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this issue has caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman