DRN-3147863
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Usay Business Limited mis-sold them a personal private
medical insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs C are represented by a solicitor Ill call E.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs C took out a policy through Usay, which was underwritten by an
insurer Ill call A. The policy was recommended to Mr C by Usays adviser. The policy began
on 24 June 2019 and cost Mr and Mrs C £116.04 per month.
Unfortunately, in August 2019, Mr C underwent testing and was ultimately diagnosed with
lymphoma. He made a claim to A for the costs of outpatient testing, including a clinical
biopsy which appears to have determined his diagnosis. A accepted the claim and settled it
in line with the outpatient cover limit of £500.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy because they felt Usay had led them to believe that any
diagnostic tests related to cancer would be covered in full. As settlement hadnt met the full
costs of Mr Cs biopsy, so Mr C had been left out of pocket. They also felt that that Usay had
failed to explain a six-week rule which applied to some sections of the policy. And that
Usays adviser hadnt highlighted the £500 limit on outpatient cover. If the adviser had done
so, Mr and Mrs C said they wouldnt have taken out the policy. They believed it had been
mis-sold to them. So E asked us to look into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
The policy was lapsed in September 2019.
Our investigator didnt think Usay had mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs C. Shed listened to
the sales call between Mr C and Usays adviser and she thought hed made it sufficiently
clear that the six-week rule wouldnt apply to outpatient treatment. However, she thought the
adviser couldve done more to highlight the outpatient limit to Mr C. So she recommended
that Usay should pay Mr and Mrs C £150 compensation.
Neither party accepted the investigators view.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think Usay had mis-sold Mr and Mrs Cs private medical insurance 
policy. I said:
The relevant regulators rules set out how brokers are obliged to carry out the sale of
insurance. As Usay recommended that Mr and Mrs C take out the policy, it needed to make
sure it was suitable for them. And it also needed to provide them with clear, fair and not
misleading information about the policy.
Like the investigator, Ive listened carefully to the sales call between Mr C and Usays
adviser and Ive also looked closely at the post-sale paperwork Usay sent on As behalf. Its
clear that Mr C had two real aims  one was to keep the policy price down and the second
was to protect against cancer. Im satisfied that the adviser clearly explained that the policy
he was recommending was the cheapest available, which provided the best-fit for the type of
cover Mr and Mrs C were looking for. He discussed additional cover options and how these
would impact on the price. And the policy the adviser proposed also included two months of
free cover due to promotions. So Im satisfied the adviser appropriately considered Mr and
Mrs Cs cost needs.
Ive borne in mind that Mr C told the adviser about several medical conditions hed suffered
from. So I think it was reasonable for the adviser to recommend a moratorium-based policy,
rather than a fully-underwritten contract, which would potentially fully exclude pre-existing
conditions with no time limits.
As Ive set out above, it seems a key reason for Mr and Mrs C deciding to take the policy
was to ensure they were covered if they developed cancer. Ive thought about this. During
the call, the adviser explained the six-week rule. This broadly says that A wont pay for 
inpatient or day-patient private treatment if its available on the NHS within six weeks from 
the date its recommended by a specialist.
The adviser specifically discussed the six-week rule with Mr C in relation to cancer
treatment. He stated, in summary, that following a cancer diagnosis, the NHS was the best
place to be  given how quickly it could provide treatment. He mentioned that the treating
specialists were likely to be the same within both the NHS and private hospitals. And in my
view, Mr C understood what the adviser had told him. The adviser went on to explain that if
Mr or Mrs C required specialist treatment or medications which wouldnt be available on the
NHS, the policy would provide cover at that point. He also made clear that ongoing
monitoring and tests for cancer would be covered. This is in line with the terms of the
insurance contract. So Im satisfied that the policy the adviser recommended to Mr C did
include cancer cover and that Mr C had understood and was happy with the fact that often,
cancer treatment would be carried out by the NHS.
On this basis then, Im satisfied the policy Usay recommended to Mr C was suitable to meet
the needs hed outlined to the adviser.
Ive turned to consider whether Usay gave Mr C clear, fair and not misleading information
about the policy. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C feel that the £500 outpatient limit wasnt
highlighted to them during the sale and our investigator agreed this was the case. I dont
agree with this finding though. During the call, the adviser explained that the policy he was
recommending included broadly two consultations per year. He stated that this was where
the policy fell down. And he mentioned that there were policies available which would offer
more consultations. He later clarified that:
The policy provides each of you with up to £500 per year that you can spend on
consultations and minor diagnostics, which is your two to three specialist consultations per
year. Any big scans like MRI scans, CT scans, or PET scans, they are fully funded for you.
The minor diagnostics like a blood test, or something like that, would also come out of the
£500.
I think then that the adviser did make clear that outpatient consultations and minor diagnostic
testing would be subject to a policy limit of £500. 
Having looked at the Illustration of Benefits document, I can see theres a section called 
Out-Patient benefits. Next to the title, the document says: combined £500 limit for 
specialists, therapies, psychiatric and diagnostic tests. The policy schedule which was sent 
to Mr and Mrs C after the policy was taken out also clearly states: Reduced Out-Patient 
Limit - £500.Taken together with the policy wording, I think both the sales call and the post-sale
paperwork made the outpatient limit sufficiently clear. So Im satisfied on this basis that Usay
met its obligations.
I understand that A treated Mr Cs biopsy as a diagnostic test and therefore applied the
policy outpatient limit. I appreciate Mr C feels this should have fallen under the cancer
benefits cover, which says that after a policyholder has been diagnosed with cancer, A will
pay for consultations or diagnostic tests they need as part of their treatment. However, how
A considered and categorised Mr Cs biopsy and how it reached its settlement decision
wasnt Usays responsibility. And on the evidence before me, Im persuaded Usay gave Mr C
(and Mrs C) enough clear, fair and not misleading information to allow them to make an
informed decision about whether or not to take out the policy.
Overall then, I dont currently think Usay mis-sold Mr and Mrs Cs policy. Im satisfied the
recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs C and that Usay gave them clear, fair and not
misleading information about the policy. It follows then that I dont plan to direct Usay to pay
any award. I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs Cs position and Im sorry to hear about Mr Cs
diagnosis. And I understand that Mr C is likely to find sourcing alternative cover for his
condition difficult. But I simply dont think Usay has done anything wrong which it needs to
put right.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Usay accepted my provisional findings.
E didnt respond to my provisional decision, despite our investigator checking whether it 
wished to do so.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional evidence or comments for me to consider, I see 
no reason for me to change my provisional decision.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons  my 
decision is that Usay hasnt done anything wrong which it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman