DRN-2565052
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) 
handled her chargeback dispute and its poor communication with her. 
What happened
In 2019 Mrs W made two transactions totalling £2,000 to a travel agent that I will refer to as 
D, to pay for a holiday deposit. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions, Mrs W was 
unable to travel. D refused to refund Mrs W, saying it was against company policy.
Given this Mrs W raised a dispute with Barclays in May 2020. In June 2020 a temporary 
credit of £2,000 was applied to her account. Mrs W contacted Barclays to enquire how long it 
would be before this was made permanent, as she wanted to transfer the balance to her 
bank account. 
Mrs W and Barclays remained in contact regarding the dispute and then on 7 July 2020, 
Barclays advised Mrs W via a text message that her account was in credit and this could be 
transferred to a UK bank account. The same day Mrs W requested the transfer of the funds 
and asked it to be actioned as soon as possible. 
There was further communication following this as Barclays said this wasnt possible due to 
the credit only being a temporary one. Mrs W asked for an update given the time that 
elapsed and said if a credit to her bank account wasnt an option, then Barclays shouldnt 
have text and advised her this was an option. Barclays then requested further information on 
10 July 2020, to assist with the dispute. 
Mrs W was unhappy with this and replied that the requested information had already been 
provided. She asked for someone to call her with an update given the significant amount of 
time that had already passed. No reply was forthcoming, so Mrs W contacted Barclays again 
on 14 July 2020 to raise a formal complaint. 
Barclays raised the chargeback and wrote to Mrs W to advise her account had been credited 
while it carried out further enquiries. Mrs W however received a statement showing the 
credits being removed and payment being due. On 18 July 2020, Barclays confirmed the 
refunds had been applied.
In the days that followed, Mrs W again requested the funds be transferred over to her bank 
account and asked for her complaint to be escalated. Mrs W was given a complaint 
reference number on 19 July 2020. Mrs W spoke to the complaints team on 21 July 2020 
where Barclays offered £100 in compensation. Mrs W declined this and asked for the matter 
to be escalated further. She says she was told someone would call her back within 24 hours 
to discuss the matter further. 
This didnt happen and then Barclays issued a final response on 30 July 2020, where it 
confirmed it had paid Mrs W £100 in recognition of its errors. It also advised that the 
merchant had until 14 August 2020 to reply to the chargeback. 
On 3 August 2020, Mrs W contacted Barclays to say she had agreed a settlement with D 
directly and that Barclays should now remove the temporary credit that was showing on her 
account. Barclays confirmed this had been actioned. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to this service as she remained unhappy with Barclays offer of 
£100. She was satisfied with the agreed settlement from D but didnt feel that Barclays had 
set expectations of the dispute process and its communication had been poor and 
unacceptable. Additionally, Mrs W was unhappy that she was not able to use her account as 
she wanted to as Barclays hadnt made her aware of what was happening with it. As a 
result, she had to apply for a second credit card with another provider to make some 
purchases she needed to make. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded that the £100 Barclays had already 
paid was fair and reasonable. Mrs W still didnt agree and said, amongst other things, that 
despite the pandemic Barclays should have been able to adjust its processes and 
communication. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs W has confirmed she came to an acceptable settlement with D, Ive only looked at 
the issues I consider outstanding. In this case, that is Barclays handling of the dispute and 
not the dispute itself. 
Barclays has said that given the large volume of disputes that were being received, it took 
the decision to apply temporary credits to its customers that usually pay their balance in full 
each month when it was informed of a disputed transaction. As such, it said Mrs Ws account 
was credited on 10 June 2020. 
The actual chargeback wasnt raised until July 2020. As part of its chargeback process, 
Barclays has said it applies a temporary credit while it waits for a merchant to respond. As a 
credit had already been applied here, Barclays removed the initial credit on 15 July 2020. 
Then a few days later reapplied credits of £1,900 and £100 in accordance with the 
chargeback that had been started. 
I can see why this would be confusing and Barclays didnt clearly explain what was 
happening on Mrs Ws account to her. The confusion was compounded by the fact a 
statement was issued in between the first credit being removed and the chargeback 
temporary credits being applied after. This meant Mrs W received a statement asking for 
repayment that wasnt due and I understand why she found this concerning. As a result, Mrs 
W had to contact Barclays to find out what was happening on multiple occasions. This is the 
same for the complaint she was trying to escalate. 
Barclays also gave confusing information when it sent Mrs W a text message advising the 
credit balance could be transferred to a bank account. This wasnt an option as her account 
was only in credit due to the temporary refund of 10 June 2020. It also requested additional 
information that it seems it already had. 
I do feel that Barclays was trying to assist Mrs W, but I consider that it couldve 
communicated better with her. It provided incorrect information that caused confusion and 
didnt explain what action it was taking with Mrs Ws dispute, leaving her unsure what was 
happening. Its clear Mrs W found this very frustrating. Mrs W has said that as a result of not knowing what was happening, she had to take out a 
second credit card with another provider. While I acknowledge Barclays shouldve handled 
things better in this case, I can see that Mrs W still had available credit on her Barclays 
credit card to make additional purchases. This was regardless of the issue with the £2,000 
payment to D. So I consider that Mrs W couldve still spent on her credit card, and it was 
ultimately Mrs Ws decision to take out another card. As such Im not holding it responsible 
for Mrs Ws decision to apply for another credit card elsewhere. 
When thinking about if Barclays needs to do anything more here to put things right, Ive had 
to take into account how the period in question was an unprecedented and an unusual time 
for the banks, dealing with significant numbers of enquiries, claims and complaints from 
consumers as the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up 
issues which were relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, 
rules and guidance at a very unusual time. I also need to consider the operational 
challenges it faced during this period. And ultimately it was D that caused the issues in the 
first place, by not refunding Mrs W in a timely manner. 
I accept Barclays has provided confusing information and it didnt communicate what was 
happening on Mrs Ws account as I wouldve expected. I fully appreciate how frustrating this 
mustve been for Mrs W. However, taking everything into consideration I believe the £100 its 
already paid is sufficient and fairly resolves this complaint. I therefore wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman