DRN-4311577
The complaint
Ms L complains Metro Bank PLC (Metro) closed her credit card account despite her request 
for a new credit card to be sent.
What happened
Ms L says she received a letter in November 2022 advising her it was Metros intention to 
close her credit card account due to inactivity. Ms L says in line with the instructions in that 
letter she telephoned Metro on 22 December 2022 for a  replacement credit card, but it 
never arrived. Ms L says she telephoned Metro on 14 January 2023 to query this but was 
told her credit card account had already been closed the day before. Ms L says Metros 
failure to send her a new credit card has resulted in it unfairly closing her credit card account 
and preventing her from carrying out a transaction for a flight booking and she has lost the 
beneficial rate on her credit card account. 
Ms L doesnt feel Metros offer of £25 goes far enough to cover the inconvenience and 
distress this matter has caused her. 
Metro apologised for the fact the agent she spoke to in late December 2022, should have 
informed her at the time he wasnt able to reorder a new credit card given the inactivity of the 
account for a long period of time. Metro have paid Ms L £25 for this error. Metro says it 
informed Ms L if she wanted to continue to have a credit card she would need to visit a local 
store for further assistance.
Ms L wasnt happy with Metros response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Ms L was aware she needed to make a transaction before the 13 January 
2023 to stop the account closing, so she could have contacted Metro sooner than she did to 
ask about the whereabouts of the credit card. The investigator says theres no evidence to 
suggest the credit card had ever been used since its opening in 2012, or certainly in the last 
six months, so it was likely Ms L had other means to carry out the transaction to book her 
flight.  
While the investigator agreed Metro had made an error when it said the credit card would be 
reissued, it had adequately compensated Ms L for that when it paid her £25. 
Ms L didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be partially upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come 
to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms L to learn her credit card account had 
been closed by Metro even though she had requested a new card on the account. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Metro should have done more here than offer 
Ms L £25 for the error it made regarding the re-issue of her credit card.  
Ms Ls complaint centres around the fact Metro closed her credit card account when it had 
earlier indicated to her in writing that if she requested a new credit card it would allow the 
account to continue. Ms L has made the point by closing the account Metro prevented her 
making a flight booking and she has lost out on the preferential rates the card offered her. 
The first thing to say here is Metro have acknowledged it made a mistake here when its 
agent agreed to reissue a credit card but that didnt materialise and paid her £25 by way of 
apology. 
I can see Metro wrote to Ms L initially in November 2022 to say two steps needed to be 
taken to prevent the credit card account being closed, firstly to request a new credit card and 
then to make a transaction on the account before 13 January 2023. 
Here, Ms L did telephone Metro on 22 December 2022 to say she had mislaid her credit card 
although she didnt refer to the letter shed received before saying her account would be 
closed, which may have changed the way in which the call was handled. That said the agent 
did agree to issue a replacement card and failed to do so, even if he wasnt in a position to 
do so as Metro have indicated to this service. I take the view here that if Metro werent in a 
position to re-order the card because of its lengthy period of dormancy, it should have made 
that clear to Ms L at that point. 
Its worth mentioning however that Ms L had been made aware she needed to activate the 
card before 13 January 2023 to prevent the account closure, but she only chased the fact 
her replacement card hadnt arrived the day after that deadline. Unfortunately, by this time 
Metro had already decided to close the account. 
While I cant tell Metro it must reinstate Ms Ls credit card account, as this would be subject 
to a fresh review of her financial circumstances and is a business decision for it to take, it 
has created unnecessary confusion and inconvenience for Ms L here, so Im satisfied an 
additional payment of £100 is more appropriate. 
While neither Ms L nor Metro will be happy with my decision, Im satisfied this is a fair 
outcome here.
Both Ms L and Metro responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Ms L and Metro until 11 September 2023 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Both Ms L and Metro have accepted my provisional decision, so I see no reason to 
add or change my provisional decision and so my final decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct Metro Bank PLC to pay Ms L a further £100 for the trouble and upset caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Metro Bank PLC to pay Ms L a further £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman