DRN-2379059
The complaint
Mr W complains that 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited (2 Plan) recommended he invest 
in the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) and, furthermore, didnt advise him to withdraw 
from it when there were signs of it failing.
What happened
Mr W first met with the adviser from 2 Plan in late 2016. This led to a recommendation in 
April 2017 that he switch funds within one of his existing pensions (valued then at just under 
£220,000) to a balanced-risk model portfolio. This was made up of 15 funds, of which the 
WEIF, the subject of this complaint, was one. 
The WEIF was suspended in June 2019 and Mr W complained to 2 Plan shortly after. He felt 
it had been apparent that the fund had been in difficulties for some time and, as such, he 
shouldnt have advised to invest in it, nor remain invested. 
2 Plan didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in brief, that investment in the fund had been 
consistent with Mr Ws attitude to risk and suitable for him as part of the overall pension 
portfolio. At the time of the advice in 2017 the fund had been used by all platforms and 
providers and thered been nothing to indicate there were any problems with it. Further, the 
possibility of it being suspended in 2019 couldnt have been foreseen. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as 2 Plan. He said, in brief:
Investment in the WEIF appeared to have been suitable for Mr W and in line with his 
attitude to risk. 
He had previous investment experience and was in a financial position with capacity 
for risk. He had also opted to increase the level of risk for the portfolio from that 
initially suggested.
The recommended balanced portfolio featured a diverse selection of asset types, and 
the WEIF represented only 5% of the portfolio.
Two annual reviews of the portfolio took place in April 2018 and 2019. Both 
considered the general ongoing suitability of the investment and no changes were 
recommended. No reference was made to the WEIF, or any other particular fund, on 
either occasion. 
There was no clear indication that there was a problem with the WEIF such that a 
recommendation shouldve been made to switch out of it.   
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view. He felt the WEIF investment should certainly have 
been specifically addressed by the point of the 2019 review. He said that by March of that 
year there were known issues with the fund regarding the Guernsey Stock Exchange, 
holdings in unquoted corporates and liquidity. Mr W felt all this shouldve been disclosed by 
the adviser as part of the review and if it had been, hed have switched out of the fund.
 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator. I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
There are essentially two issues for me to consider. Firstly, whether Mr W shouldve been 
advised to invest in the WEIF in the first place. And, secondly, whether 2 Plan shouldve 
recommended he later switch from it, or at least have provided him with more information 
about the fund at the subsequent reviews, so he could make his own informed decision.
In respect of the former issue, I think the initial recommendation appears to have been 
suitable and consistent with Mr Ws circumstances and investment experience. The fund 
formed a small part of a portfolio that generally reflected his attitude to risk, particularly as 
hed sought to slightly increase the risk level overall to sit at a point just above balanced.
In respect of the latter issue, which I think its fair to say is Mr Ws primary concern, Im also 
not persuaded that 2 Plan acted incorrectly. I accept that some issues developed with the 
fund after he invested, as Mr W has pointed out. At the point of the first review in April 2018, 
its performance had fallen and during that year it was recategorised as an all companies 
fund to reflect the decrease in the income it was producing. The WEIF was also investing 
increasingly in unlisted securities during this period. There was then the issue with the 
Guernsey Stock Exchange that Mr W has highlighted. 
But I dont think at the point of either review the situation with the WEIF was such that 2 Plan 
failed Mr W in not recommending a switch. As the reviews didnt document what specific 
consideration was given to the WEIF, or any of the other 14 funds in which Mr W pension 
was invested, its difficult to know what the advisers thinking was. But at the time, without 
the benefit of hindsight, I dont think it was unreasonable to maintain that investment in the 
fund was suitable.     
As noted, the WEIFs performance had been poor, but Woodford was widely recognised for 
previous good performance, with funds demonstrating some volatility, but then recovering. 
While its always stressed in the context of investment that past performance is not a guide 
to future performance, its likely 2 Plan gave some consideration to Woodfords record when 
reviewing the fund and I think it was reasonable for it to do so.
And it must be remembered that any consideration was being made in the context of Mr Ws 
attitude to risk for the portfolio being slightly higher than balanced, which was accepting of 
some additional volatility. And the investment in the fund represented only around 5% of its 
value as a whole. 
I accept that the adviser could have provided more information to Mr W at the point of each 
review, going beyond a general appraisal of ongoing suitability to look at the situation with 
each of the funds. But Im not persuaded that if he had done, its more likely than not, on 
balance, that Mr W wouldve asked to switch out of the WEIF. I say this because I think its 
likely that any consideration of information that might have been provided would, as above, 
have been in the context of the portfolio as a whole. And as such, Mr W, as a reasonably 
experienced balanced investor, wouldnt have felt it necessary to switch out of the fund so 
soon after investing in it.      My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman