DRN-3807201
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Hiscox Underwriting Limited (Hiscox) unfairly increased
premiums over successive years. As well as recording an open claim with inaccurate
costings under their home building insurance policy.
I will refer to Mrs M in my decision as the lead complainant for ease of reading.
What happened
Mrs M phoned Hiscox after receiving her renewal notice prior to the anniversary date of her
policy in September 2021. She noticed an error in the statement of fact document. It said the
property wasnt a listed building, when in fact it was. She queried this point and why a claim
settled in 2018, following an escape of water, still showed as being open. Mrs M also queried
the value of the claim.
In addition, Mrs M raised concerns that there had been successive large premium increases
each year since 2018.
Hiscox subsequently withdrew the cover detailed in its renewal documents. It said as the
building was listed its underwriters werent able to offer this type of cover. Instead it offered a
higher level of cover at a higher cost. Mrs M says this insurance provides for high net worth
individuals. She says it includes kidnap and ransom insurance, which exceeds her
requirements.
Mrs M says that despite paying for a higher level of insurance because of the listed status,
the buildings and contents sum insured remain the same. She also says she has never told
Hiscox that the property wasnt listed. Mrs M says a surveyor visited the property when the
policy was first taken out in 2006, because of its proximity to a river. She says the surveyor
shouldve been aware of the listed status.
Mrs M says the claim value for the 2018 escape of water is shown at around £160,000. She
says this is far higher than the repairs cost. She says the work had to be re-done due to poor
workmanship. She doesnt think its fair that the remedial costs are included in the claim
value. Mrs M says Hiscox is taking action to recover costs from its contractors due to the
poor workmanship. But she doesnt think its fair to keep the claim showing as open.
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. During the investigation Hiscox revised the
claim cost down to £72,481.98 and said the claim was now showing as closed. But it says it
wasnt able to offer cover based on the original insurance quote because the building is
listed.
Our investigator thought this was fair but felt Hiscox should pay Mrs M £100 compensation
as she was unable to seek alternative insurance whilst the claim was open. Mrs M disagreed
with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part. Let me explain.
Listed building status
Mrs Ms policy was taken out in September 2006. She says that when applying for insurance
she didnt say the building wasnt listed. But when she read the renewal documents from
July 2021, which included a statement of fact, she noticed her property was confirmed not to
be a listed building. Mrs M contacted Hiscox to let it know the building was listed. It then
withdrew its renewal offer and offered a new quote for high net worth customers.
Hiscox has supplied its underwriting information that shows for Mrs Ms property this was the
only cover it could offer. I cant share this information as its considered commercially
sensitive. But Im satisfied that Hiscox acted according to its underwriting criteria when
withdrawing its original offer of insurance. As it became aware the property was listed it
replaced its offer with its high net worth customer option.
Mrs M asks for an assurance that all of Hiscoxs customers known to be living in listed
buildings are covered by its high net worth policy.
The underwriting information provided by Hiscox is clear that none of its other policies will be
offered to customers living in listed buildings. Again, I cant share any more detail from this
information. But Im satisfied that Hiscox hasnt treated Mrs M unfairly or that other
customers benefit from cheaper cover.
I have thought about Mrs Ms comments that Hiscox knew she lived in a listed building when
the policy was set up. Specifically, that the surveyor who visited in 2006 knew this was the
case. She says the surveyor was aware that the building was listed, and that she didnt tell
Hiscox it wasnt.
Hiscox has supplied the statement of fact it sent to Mrs M with its 2021 renewal documents. I
can see there is a question that says, Is your property listed? with the answer, No. I
asked Hiscox if it could provide the original statement of fact completed in 2006. It
responded to say it couldnt. It says this information was on a legacy system that was
replaced some years ago. However, it says the information on this system was used to
populate subsequent renewal packs. Hiscox says it has reviewed the statement of fact
documents from 2018 onwards  and that all of these show the property as unlisted.
In the absence of the original statement of fact document its not possible to confirm what
this said about the listed status of Mrs Ms home. Where the evidence isnt clear, I must
consider what I think is most probable in the circumstances - given the testimony and
evidence that is available to me.
I cant be sure if the policy was originally set up to cover a listed building. I dont doubt Mrs
Ms recollection that she never declared the building as unlisted. Its unfortunate the earlier
statement of fact documents cant be provided. However, these were issued some time ago
and have been superseded with the documents supplied in the subsequent years renewals.Mrs M says the surveyor from 2006 knew the property was listed. But I havent seen
evidence to support this. Hiscox says its records show the building wasnt recorded as being
listed for the past three years, from the statement of fact documents it has available. It
explains the policy details were taken from the information Mrs M provided when the policy
was first agreed. This was then used as the basis for her insurance policy each year.
Having considered this Im more persuaded by Hiscoxs view that its likely the building was
never recorded as being listed. Mrs M will have received the statement of fact documents at
each renewal. I note she didnt report an issue until 2021. It may be that this went unnoticed
in earlier years as well. However, I dont think this issue had a negative impact on Mrs M.
The cost of insurance cover where a building isnt listed is less expensive. Mrs M has
benefitted from a cheaper premium for a number of years. Hiscox also paid to cover a claim
from 2018 where significant damage was caused by an escape of water, although the policy
wasnt intended to cover a listed building. I dont think Mrs M has been disadvantaged by
this, but its appropriate that Hiscox provides the appropriate cover going forward that
reflects the listed status of Mrs Ms property. I think its shown that the cover offered to Mrs M
is appropriate based on its underwriting criteria.
Open claim
Mrs M is concerned that the claim for an escape of water that was settled in 2018 remains
open. She says this has made it difficult to source alternative cover. I understand Mrs M has
looked for alternative insurance as a result of Hiscox withdrawing its original renewal offer.
In its final complaint response in September 2021, Hiscox told Mrs M that the claim file
remains open because the matter is still being investigated by its recovery team. It says this
is standard practice when an insurer is trying to recover expenses from a third party.
I understand that the repairs following the escape of water claim werent completed to a
good standard. This resulted in remedial works and ultimately Hiscox paying Mrs M a
settlement figure to arrange for the remaining repairs to be completed. The contractor
appointed by Hiscox was considered at fault for these issues. I understand Hiscox was
attempting to recover its costs from this contractor, which is the reason it gave for the claim
status remaining open.
I dont think it was fair for the status of the claim to remain open after the settlement payment
was agreed with Mrs M. I can understand why Hiscox wanted to recover costs resulting from
sub-standard work its contractor completed. But this was an issue between Hiscox and the
contractor it employed.
I understand the claim has since been updated to show as, closed  pending recovery. But
I think this should reasonably have been updated back in September 2020. This has created
difficulties for Mrs M when seeking alternative cover, which was frustrating for her and
caused inconvenience. Mrs M also says the open claim meant she had to stay with Hiscox to
ensure insurance cover was in place.
In the circumstances I think its reasonable that Mrs M should be able to cancel her current
policy with Hiscox without incurring cancellation charges. The open claim shouldve been
closed by Hiscox in 2020. Not doing so had an impact on Mrs M seeking an alternative
insurer. If she is able to demonstrate that cheaper insurance couldve been obtained on a
similar basis, I think its reasonable that Hiscox refunds the difference in premiums. I also
think Hiscox should provide compensation for the frustration and upset this caused. I will
confirm this below.Annual premium increases
In her complaint to Hiscox Mrs M raised concerns with successive increases in her annual
premium that she thought were excessive. I cant see that it responded to this specific issue
in its complaint response. I asked the business to provide its underwriting information to
demonstrate how the premiums were calculated and to show that Mrs M was treated the
same any other customer would be.
Hiscox responded with details of its underwriting process and how this was applied to Mrs
Ms premium from 2018 onwards. Again, Hiscox underwriting criteria is commercially
sensitive, so I cant share this information. But I have read through this carefully and Im
satisfied the premiums were calculated in-line with the businesses established underwriting
rules. I think this reasonably shows that Mrs M wasnt treated differently to any other Hiscox
customer. And I havent seen anything that demonstrates she was treated unfairly here.
Claim cost
Mrs M says that because the repair works Hiscox arranged following the escape of water in
2018 were of a poor standard, this inflated the claim cost unfairly. She says much of the cost
Hiscox has attributed to this claim relates to re-work that shouldnt have been necessary and
shouldnt be included in the claim record.
I can see that the total value of the claim was recorded at around £160,000 originally. Hiscox
re-evaluated the claim following Mrs Ms concerns. It reduced the total cost to just over
£110,000 as a result. Mrs M still didnt think this accurately reflected the costs involved. We
asked Hiscox to provide information to support these costs. It sent information to support the
first phase of works totalling £72,481.98. However, it couldnt supply invoices to support the
second phase of works that cost £34,692.06. As a result, Hiscox removed the phase two
costs including surveyors fees, which left a total claim cost of £72,481.98.
Mrs M still doesnt think this figure accurately reflects the true cost of the claim. She says
Hiscox claims £37,551.80 is attributed to additional strip and trace works as well as other
work costs that arent clearly specified. The settlement figure Mrs M was offered was for
£41,541.67. She says the loss adjustor advised this was based on the estimated strip out
and reinstatement of the areas involved. Mrs M believes the work Hiscox has included in the
claim cost includes duplicated work and other work that isnt supported.
Ive seen the invoices that make up the first phase of the works, which is now recorded as
the final claim value. I asked Hiscox for further information in response to Mrs Ms comments
that duplicate trace and access and strip out costs are included in this figure. It says the
original strip out costs legitimately form part of the claim, as it was an essential part of the
work. It says these costs havent been recorded twice. Hiscox says the settlement figure has
already been removed from the claim cost, and the remaining amount is far less than the
actual cost of works for the repairs it carried out.
Hiscox says it agreed on a goodwill basis to remove the cost of the second phase of works,
in an attempt to expedite the resolution of Mrs Ms complaint.
Ive carefully considered all the available information supplied by Hiscox and Mrs M. I can
understand her concerns as to the accuracy of the claim costs, given the settlement
payment was originally included in the final amount. However, this has since been removed,
along with the cost of the second phase of work which cost £34,692.06. More detailed
invoice information hasnt been provided with respect to the first phase of the work.
However, costing information and invoices have been provided to demonstrate that this
formed the first phase of the repairs paid for by Hiscox. It was reasonable for the secondphase costs to be removed from the claim value, as Hiscox couldnt obtain invoices relating
to this work. But I acknowledge its point that it still thinks these costs legitimately formed part
of the overall claim.
On balance I think the claim value Hiscox has now recorded is fair in these circumstances. I
acknowledge Mrs M holds strong views about this and will disagree with me. But large
reductions have already been made to the overall claim value as a result of her concerns.
Im satisfied from the costings and invoices that the claim value recorded has reasonably
been demonstrated to be accurate. I dont think Mrs M has clearly shown there is duplication
in the final figure.
Having considered all of this I dont think Hiscox treated Mrs M fairly when not closing the
claim earlier, and for inaccuracies in the overall claim value it recorded. This has caused
frustration and impacted her ability to obtain alternative insurance. It has also caused
inconvenience in the additional contact required when disputing the claim value. I think its
fair for Hiscox to acknowledge this with a total compensation payment for £250.
I said I was intending to partially uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Hiscox should:
allow Mrs M to cancel her policy without cancellation charges if she chooses;
refund any difference in premium paid, if Mrs M is able to evidence the open claim
prevented her from taking comparable insurance at a lower cost; and
pay Mrs M £250 compensation for the frustration and inconvenience it caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Hiscox responded to say it had no further information or comments for me to consider. 
Mrs M sent a detailed response. In brief she says Hiscoxs high net worth policy contained a 
vast number of provisions that exceeded her requirements. She says a scanned copy of a 
2017 statement of fact from Hiscox doesnt include a declaration relating to a listed building. 
Also, that the loss adjustor that visited her home in 2018 was fully aware of the listed status 
of her property. 
Mrs M highlights a point she made in her earlier submission to our service. She says the 
buildings sum insured in her original and current policy isnt indicative of the rebuild cost of a 
standard two bedroom flat. She says this indicates Hiscox was aware her flat was a non-
standard property. She says she doesnt think she has been benefitting from cheaper 
premiums as a result of her property not being recorded as listed. 
Mrs M says shes still not confident the claim costs are recorded accurately. She says she is 
at a significant disadvantage as she hasnt had sight of the alleged repair costs to submit 
evidence in support of her argument.   
Mrs M says she when looked for alternative insurers she had to either leave the claim cost 
section blank or enter £160,000. In either scenario she says she wasnt able to obtain a 
quotation and so cannot provide the evidence needed to show what the cost would be. 
However, she has provided a quote she obtained online in November 2022 using a value of 
£72,000 for her previous claim.
Mrs M says she has spent a significant amount of time and energy and has suffered extreme 
stress and frustration over a prolonged period. She asks that the £250 compensation set out 
in my provisional decision be reconsidered. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mrs Ms further comments regarding the cover included in Hiscoxs high 
net worth policy. I accept what she says about the cover exceeding her requirements. And 
that there was no reference to listed building declaration in the statement of fact document 
from 2017.
I dont dispute her comments. But having seen Hiscoxs underwriting criteria and the 
insurance products it provides, its clear this is the only cover offered by the business for Mrs 
M as the owner of a listed property.
I understand Mrs Ms point about the sum insured for her property  and her view that this 
isnt reflective of what a standard build would cost. But I dont think this necessarily indicates 
that she lived in a listed building. Id expect the listed status to be established during the 
application process or potentially at renewal. I discussed this point in depth in my provisional 
decision. I thought that on the balance of probability its likely that Mrs Ms property was 
never recorded as listed with Hiscox. I acknowledge Mrs Ms comments, but Im not 
persuaded to change my decision. 
I understand Mrs M has strong views that she hasnt benefitted from cheaper insurance with 
Hiscox as a result of her property not being recorded as listed within her policy. But based 
on the evidence Ive seen, the high net worth policy costs more than her original policy. The 
reason Hiscox cancelled the original renewal in 2021 is when it became aware her property 
was listed. Its underwriting criteria meant the only product it could offer was the more 
expensive high net worth policy. Based on this I think Mrs M did benefit from a cheaper 
policy for a number of years. She also had a claim accepted to repair her property, although 
her policy wasnt intended to cover listed buildings. 
Ive thought about Mrs Ms comments that she still disagrees with the claim value Hiscox has 
recorded. Im sorry she feels the value recorded is higher than was actually the case. I 
acknowledge her comments that she has not had sight of the detail and nature of the alleged 
costs, and so she is unable to demonstrate this part of her complaint further. Ive reviewed 
the information relating to the claim costs again, as part of my considerations here. But Im 
not persuaded to change my decision. Based on the evidence Ive seen I think the claim 
value now recorded is fair. 
Ive read the recent quotes Mrs M obtained for insurance dated in November 2022. And I 
note her comments that she doesnt have the evidence to show she was prevented from 
taking comparable insurance at a lower cost. I have considered her further comments and 
information, but I dont think this clearly shows that cheaper comparable cover was available. 
I note Mrs Ms view that £250 compensation is insufficient. I dont doubt the stress and 
frustration she has experienced as a result of the issues described here. I agree that 
compensation is appropriate, but I think £250 is fair. Im also aware that Mrs M has 
previously been paid £250 compensation from Hiscox in relation to some of the issues she 
experienced during her claim. 
Having considered all of this, for the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional 
decision, I uphold in part Mrs Ms complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. Hiscox Underwriting Limited should:
allow Mrs M to cancel her policy without cancellation charges if she chooses;
refund any difference in premium paid, if Mrs M is able to evidence the open claim
prevented her from taking comparable insurance at a lower cost; and
pay Mrs M £250 compensation for the frustration and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman