DRN-3633974
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Mr Gs wife is also involved with his complaint.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr G under a conditional sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer Finance that he electronically signed in December 2019. He says that he started 
to have issues with the car in April 2021, including problems with starting it, the gearstick 
vibrating, power issues, the stop-start function not working properly and engine noise so he 
took the car to a manufacturers dealer. He paid it £387.60 for the fly wheel to be replaced in 
May 2021 but he says that the issues with the car continued. The manufacturers dealer 
replaced three injectors and an exhaust gas recirculation filter in November 2021  for which 
Mr G paid £2,122.16  but the issues continued and it then said that the car required a new 
engine.
Mr G took the car to a specialist garage in December 2021 which said that it felt that the 
engine had an ongoing issue which has slowly developed over time. Mr G complained to 
Santander Consumer Finance about the issues with the car in January 2022 but it said that 
he couldnt provide any evidence to indicate that the faults were present at the point of sale. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He wasnt persuaded 
that the car demonstrated reasonable durability so he thought that it wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was acquired by Mr G. He thought that it was fair that Mr G could reject the 
car and unwind the agreement. He recommended that Santander Consumer Finance 
should: end the agreement and collect the car; refund Mr Gs advance payment of £808.41 
and his rentals from November 2021 and a further six weeks of payments for the period 
when Mr G was without a car in summer 2021; refund £2,509.76 for additional expenses; 
and pay interest on all of the refunded amounts.
Santander Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It has responded to our investigators recommendations in detail and says, in 
summary, that:
the first fault was 18 months and 6,094 miles after sale and a reasonable person 
would expect that parts of the car might have already suffered wear and tear and that 
theres a greater risk that the car might need repairs sooner than a car which wasnt 
as road-worn when it was supplied;
the faults werent reported to it when they happened and it has never taken the 
opportunity to repair the repair;
under the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr G was to raise any complaints to 
it first and if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality he should have told it of any defect 
promptly;
the dealers that repaired the car have no responsibility for it under the Consumer 
Rights Act as it supplied the car to Mr G;
the repairs werent authorised by it and it seems ludicrous to hold it liable for repairs 
that it didnt authorise;
Mr G has responsibility for showing that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality but he 
hasnt done and it strongly disagrees that a fault 18 months after sale indicates an 
inherent fault or that the car isnt durable;
theres no evidence to show the fault wasnt caused by the way that the car was used 
or maintained by Mr G; and
Mr G paid £16,442 for the car which is the manufacturers lowest specification from 
its line and the price was roughly half the price of a new model.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Santander Consumer Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G - whether or 
not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr G was less than three years old, had been driven for 
35,801 miles and had a price of £16,442;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Mr G in December 2019 and he says that he complained to 
the dealer about engine noise in January 2020 but was told that it was normal for this 
type of car  but Mr G hasnt been able to provide any evidence about this;
Mr G says that he started to have more issues with the car in April 2021, including 
problems with starting it, the gearstick vibrating, power issues, the stop-start function 
not working properly and engine noise, so he took the car to a manufacturers dealer;
the job card shows that the cars mileage was 41,842 and Mr G paid £387.60 to the 
manufacturers dealer for the fly wheel to be replaced in May 2021 - but Mr G says 
that the issues with the car continued;
he took the car back to the manufacturers dealer and it replaced three injectors and 
an exhaust gas recirculation filter in November 2021  for which Mr G paid £2,122.16 
 but the issues continued and the manufacturers dealer then said that the car 
required a new engine;
Mr G took the car to a specialist garage in December 2021 which said: On 
investigation for the vehicle we believe that the engine will need replacing  We feel 
that after listening to the customers issues and experience the engine has an 
ongoing issue which has slowly developed and got worse over time  We suspect 
that the [cylinder] bores are scored which is causing the problem;
Mr G then complained to Santander Consumer Finance in January 2022 but it said 
that he couldnt provide any evidence to indicate that the faults were present at the point of sale  I consider that Mr G should have contacted Santander Consumer 
Finance about his issues with the car in April or May 2021  but I dont consider that 
its response to his complaint was likely to have been any different if hed contacted it 
at that time  and I dont consider that it has been adversely impacted by Mr Gs 
failure to contact it when I consider that he should have done;
this is a finely balanced complaint because Mr G had the car for nearly 18 months 
and was able to drive it for about 6,000 miles before the flywheel was replaced in 
May 2021  but hes had significant issues with the car;
I dont consider that its reasonable to expect that a car of this age and mileage  and 
with a price of £16,442 - should need the flywheel, three injectors and an exhaust 
gas recirculation coolant filter to be replaced  and for it to also be recommended 
that a new engine is required;
Mr G says that there have been issues since the car was supplied to him, the 
manufacturers dealer has unsuccessfully tried to deal with the issues with the car 
since May 2021 and says that a replacement engine is required and the specialist 
garage says this the issues are likely to be an ongoing issue which has slowly got 
worse over time and that the cylinder bores are scored;
taking account of all of the evidence thats been provided, I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the car wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for Mr G to expect 
it to be and that, for that reason, it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to him;
Im not persuaded that it would now be appropriate for the car to be repaired and I 
find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Santander 
Consumer Finance to allow Mr G to reject the car and to take the other actions 
described below.
Putting things right
I find that Santander Consumer Finance should end the conditional sale agreement and 
arrange for the car to be collected from Mr G  both at no cost to him. The conditional sale 
agreement shows that Mr G made an advance payment of £808.41 for the car to be supplied 
to him. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to 
refund the advance payment made by Mr G to him, with interest.
Mr G hasnt been able to use the car since November 2021 and I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to refund to Mr G the monthly payments 
that hes made under the agreement since then, with interest. There was also a period of 
about six weeks from May 2021 when Mr G was unable to use the car because of the issues 
with it and wasnt provided with an alternative car. I find that Santander Consumer Finance 
should also refund to Mr G the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement for 
that six week period, with interest. I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep the 
other monthly payments that he made under the agreement as payment for the use that hes 
had from the car. 
Mr G paid £387.60 for the car to be repaired in May 2021 and £2,122.16 for it to be repaired 
in November 2021. Those repairs were required because the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and they didnt remedy the issues with the car. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to reimburse Mr G for those payments, with 
interest.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and I order Santander Consumer (UK) plc, 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance, to:
1. End the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr G  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr G the advance payment that he made for the car.
3. Refund to Mr G the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement for 
the period since November 2021 and for the six weeks from May 2021.
4. Reimburse Mr G for the repair costs of £387.60 and £2,122.16 that hes incurred.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 5 above. Santander Consumer Finance must give Mr G a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman