DRN-3639952
The complaint
Mr M says NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr Ms complaint is about a credit card account provided by NewDay. The account was 
opened in September 2015. Mr M was given an initial credit limit of £900. This was 
increased to £1900 in January 2016 and to £3100 in July 2016. The account was closed in 
April 2018.
Mr M complains that NewDay irresponsibly lent to him.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didnt think that NewDay had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks in relation to the second credit limit increase and said 
NewDay shouldve carried out an income and expenditure check to confirm that the second 
credit limit increase was affordable.
NewDay disagreed with the adjudicator so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, are set out on this services 
website.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner.
There isnt a set list of checks that a business needs to carry out. NewDay needed to make 
sure that the checks were reasonable and proportionate when considering things like how 
much was being lent, the repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure.
I can see that when Mr M applied for the account, he stated that he had annual income of 
£19,331. NewDay carried out a credit check which showed that Mr M had £2200 consumer 
credit commitments across nine different accounts. The credit check showed no defaults or 
county court judgments.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by NewDay at the time when Mr M applied 
for the account were reasonable and proportionate. At this time, Mr Ms level of debt was 
relatively low and there was no adverse information on his credit file. I dont think there was 
any information at this time to suggest that Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the 
lending. Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate.
The credit limit was increased from £900 to £1900 in January 2016. This was around 4 
months after Mr M opened the account. During this time, Mr M hadnt exceeded the credit 
limit or missed any payments. NewDay carried out a credit check before increasing the credit 
limit. This showed that Mr Ms consumer credit commitments had increased to £2823. 
Although the increased credit limit was quite high in relation to Mr Ms income, he had 
maintained his account well. Taking this into account, I think the checks were reasonable 
and proportionate and that the decision to increase the credit limit was fair.
The credit limit was increased from £1900 to £3100 in July 2016. This was around 6 months 
after the first credit limit increase. During this time, Mr M hadnt exceeded the credit limit or 
missed any payments. NewDay carried out a credit check the month before increasing the 
credit limit. This shows that Mr Ms consumer credit commitments had increased to £4873. 
By the following month it had increased to £16,058. However, I dont think the business 
would have seen this latter figure because it appeared in the same month as the credit limit 
increase.
Even if NewDay didnt see the increase in consumer credit commitments, I think that the 
level of active debt the month before the increase (£4873) shouldve alerted NewDay to the 
fact that Mr M wasnt able to sustainably repay any further lending. This is because Mr Ms 
active debt had doubled since January 2016 and his income was, by comparison, low. In 
these circumstances, NewDay should have carried out further checks on Mr Ms income and 
expenditure to check that the credit limit increase was affordable.
For these reasons, I dont think the checks carried out by NewDay for the second credit limit 
increase were reasonable and proportionate.
Putting things right
Because I think NewDay lent to Mr M irresponsibly, Im asking it to refund all interest and 
charges which have been applied to balances over £1900.
I dont think its fair for NewDay to report adverse information about a debt which was lent 
irresponsibly, so Im also asking it to remove any adverse information relating to the account 
from Mr Ms credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Limited trading as Aqua must;
Rework the account and remove all interest and charges which have been applied to 
balances above £1900. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr M along with 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.* 
NewDay should also remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file after 26 
July 2016 in relation to the agreement.
If after the rework the balance exceeds £1900, NewDay should agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Mr M. Once Mr M has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse 
information relating to the agreement after 26 July 2016 should be removed from his credit 
file.
*HMRC require NewDay to deduct tax from this refund of interest. It must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman