DRN-4309785
The complaint
Mr A complains that Eaton Financial Services Ltd (Eaton) have not been providing him with 
the service that he has been paying for via an ongoing advice charge deducted from his 
pension.
What happened
In November 2016, Eaton provided advice to Mr A in respect of his pensions, and as a 
result, his personal pension arrangements were transferred to a pension with Royal London. 
He agreed to the ongoing charge of 0.5% per annum being taken from his pension monthly.
In 2022, Mr A complained to Eaton that he did not believe that the fee he had been receiving 
warranted the charge being taken as he had not received any reviews. Eaton responded 
saying that they had carried out reviews each year, with the exception of 2020 and 2021, 
which were missed due to Covid. They agreed to refund the advice charge taken for those 
years, which amounted to £1,406.
Mr A disagreed that reviews had taken place, and stated that he had not received any 
reviews between 2016 and 2022. He requested a refund of all the ongoing advice fees 
charged, amounting to £6,199. Eaton did not agree to this, and Mr A forwarded his complaint 
to this service. Our investigator reviewed the information provided by both Mr A and Eaton. 
She concluded that there was insufficient evidence to show that meaningful reviews had 
taken place to justify the advice charges taken from Mr As pension, which should be 
refunded along with £100 additional compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Eaton did not agree. They stated that they had provided Mr A with regular review 
documentation, and had discussions with him over the years. They increased their offer to a 
refund of half the ongoing advice fees charged. Having considered this, Mr A did not accept 
the offer and as a result the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators review that Mr As complaint should be upheld.
Mr A has not stated that he was unaware of the advice charge being deducted from his 
pension, nor that he is unhappy with the advice charge per se. He has stated that he 
believed that the ongoing advice charge being deducted was a standard commission charge, 
and it was only when he spoke to another adviser, he was made aware that he should be 
receiving a service in respect of the charge. Mr As complaint is therefore that the service he 
has received has not warranted the level of charges, which totals just over £6,000 since 
2016.
The issue to be determined therefore is whether reviews were carried out in line with the 
level of service that Eatons Service Level Agreement offers for the charge applied to Mr As 
pension.
COBS 6.1A.22 sets out the rules relating to adviser charges. It requires that, unless the 
ongoing charge comes from regular premiums, any new agreement to collect ongoing 
charges must be for the provision of personal recommendations or related services on an 
ongoing basis, the consumer must have been told what those services are going to be and 
given the option to stop paying for them. 
Eaton offered two levels of service which attracted different levels of charges  Level 1 
(0.75%) and Level 2 (0.5%). These were set out in their Service Level Agreement, a copy of 
which has been provided. There is no evidence that Mr A was provided with a copy of this, 
nor have either party indicated that he was. Each service level offered differing services. 
Eaton have stated that Mr A was on service Level 2. This is consistent with the 0.5% 
ongoing advice charge that was stated on his Royal London application form, and the fee 
that was deducted from his pension.
Eaton have stated they believe that Mr A understood all the charges made on his pension as 
they were in the initial disclosure documents, although they have not provided evidence that 
Mr A was provided with copies of these. The signed copy of the service level agreement 
Eaten have provided was an agreement between Mr As employer and Eaton, although it 
states this agreement is to provide annual reviews to all members of [name of company]. In 
their complaint correspondence, Eaton have stated that Level 2 included;
Annual statements of holding
Access to support team
Ongoing access to your adviser.
The Service Level Agreement document expands this further and states the services that a 
client could expect if they were on Service Level 2;
Annual statement of holdings
Access to our support team
On-going access to your adviser
The offer of an annual Review Meeting by email, telephone, by post, or face to face
Example Agenda of a Review
oDiscussion of your financial objectives and priorities
oDiscussion and review of your risk profile, and any new factors which may 
influence your current attitude to risk capacity for loss and timescales
oPresentation of your portfolios performance
oDiscussion of the current asset allocation
oRecommendation and implementation of any re-alignment required to 
rebalance your portfolio
oDiscussion of any legislative changes affecting your investments
oDiscussion of family succession planning, if appropriate
oDiscussion of fees for the upcoming year.
I note that the service level agreement states that customers would be offered an annual 
review meeting, it does not state that one would automatically take place every year. 
Notwithstanding this, by outlining what would be covered in a review meeting, the 
Agreement does set a level of expectation that a review meeting would take place at least 
periodically.The Service Level Agreement therefore includes two key elements  the review 
documentation and the offer of the review meeting. I can find no evidence to indicate that 
review meetings meeting the criteria indicated in the Service Level Agreement were either 
offered or took place at any time.
I have then considered the review documentation that Eaton say was provided to Mr A, in 
particular to ascertain whether they evidence adherence with the level of service set out in 
the service level agreement, and with what would reasonably be expected by a customer 
paying for that level of service. I am not persuaded that the service met the required 
standards.
Eaton state that they provided review letters annually. There is a slight discrepancy in 
Eatons recollection of how these were delivered, as they stated in their initial emails with Mr 
A that they were provided to the directors of the company to be distributed to each individual 
employee  in their later correspondence to this service they state the early reviews were 
delivered to Mr As desk. I note that following Mr As complaint, a further review letter was 
issued in 2023, which was sent by email.
Mr A states in his complaint (December 2022) that he had not received any review letters 
and believes that the letters provided as part of the complaint submission from Eaton were 
created retrospectively. As Eaton have provided the letters they say were created at the time 
that each review was due, there is no evidence to indicate that these were created 
retrospectively, I have to conclude that the review letters were created on the date indicated 
on the letters.
Eaton have indicated that at least some of the review letters were left at Mr As place of 
work, along with other employees reviews, to be distributed to the relevant individuals. The 
later review letters are stated to have been sent to Mr A. I have considered whether Eaton 
went far enough in the steps taken to ensure that Mr A received the review letters created. I 
am not satisfied that they did. I do not believe that relying on a third party to pass the review 
letters to Mr A could be considered to be as reliable as sending them to his home address or 
to him via email and consider there is a high likelihood of him not receiving them.
Although Eaton believed that they had issued review letters, I note that the letter itself closes 
with a request for Mr A to check the information held was up to date, and sign and return the 
form along with the enclosed risk analysis questionnaire. I understand that Mr A didnt sign 
and return any of the review letters that Eaton say that they sent to him. If this form had not 
been received following each years letter being sent, I would have expected Eaton to have 
made contact with Mr A by alternate means, for example by phone call or email. There is no 
evidence or suggestion that Eaton did this at any point between 2016 and 2023.
Eaton state that they had telephone conversations periodically with Mr A, which covered his 
pensions and his employment status. The review letters have been provided as part of 
Eatons submissions however they have confirmed they do not have telephone notes or 
recordings and the review letters make no reference to any of the discussions that had taken 
place.
As detailed above, I have no way of knowing whether or not Mr A did or did not receive the 
review letters produced by Eaton, however, I think it more likely than not that he didnt 
because there seems to be ambiguity about how those letters were provided to him and 
importantly, Eaton havent been able to provide any signed confirmation/receipt letters from 
Mr A stating that hed read and understood them. However, as these letters have been 
provided by Eaton as part of their response to the complaint, I am able to consider the 
content of the reviews, and whether they met with the provisions of Eatons service level 
offerings. Eaton state that they believe that they have fulfilled their obligations, both by issuing regular review letters, and by having discussions with Mr A. They state that they 
have had discussions relating to Mr As pension and employment, which they consider forms 
part of their service.
Having reviewed the letter created by Eaton by way of regular review, I am not satisfied that 
they meet either the COBS 6.1A.22 requirements or Eatons own service offering. The letters 
provided are brief, provide an outline of performance of the fund over the preceding period, 
and request Mr A completes and checks a personal information form. Each letter also states 
due to government legislation changes I also enclose a risk analysis report and request its 
completion and return as soon as you can. The review letters provided did not take into 
account Mr As personal circumstances, particularly any likely changes, any possible 
changes to his attitude to risk or objectives, nor did they invite him to a review meeting. They 
are therefore insufficient to be able to be considered as a review meeting the service level 
agreement Mr A was paying for. 
Eaton states that they have had telephone conversations with Mr A which they believe 
constitute part of the review offering. However, they have been unable to provide any call 
recordings, phone call notes, or meeting notes to evidence this. Mr A does not dispute that 
telephone conversations have taken place, but does maintain that they were not reviews of 
his pension. Having taken into account the lack of evidence or detail pertaining to these 
calls, and the fact that no changes were made to Mr As pension as a result, I am unable to 
conclude that these calls represented regular reviews or offered any value to Mr A.
COBS 6.1A.22 also states that the consumer must have been told what those services are 
going to be and given the option to stop paying for them. It has been detailed above that 
there is no evidence of Mr A having been provided with documentation confirming what the 
services he was being charged for would be. Alongside this, there is also no evidence of Mr 
A being made aware that he could stop paying the ongoing advice charge.
Putting things right
For the reasons stated above, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct that Eaton refund all 
ongoing charges paid by Mr A since the transfer in November 2016 to the date of my final 
decision. Each of the charges taken should be backdated to the point at which they were 
debited and re-applied to Mr As pension, so they benefit from any investment growth. Eaton 
will need to contact Royal London to assist them with this.
Eaton shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection or allowance.
If it is unable to pay the compensation into Mr A's pension plan, Eaton should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer and hasnt 
indicated otherwise, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, if Mr A would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 
15%.Additionally, I direct that Eaton pay a further £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Eaton Financial Services 
Ltd to refund the ongoing service charges deducted from Mr As pension, plus £100 to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman