DRN-3153730
The complaint
Miss J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt provide statements or 
any other communications about her loan account.
What happened
Miss J has a loan account with Halifax which was opened in 2017. She says she hasnt ever 
received an annual statement from Halifax or any other communication about the loan. She 
says this means that Halifax cant enforce the agreement and she shouldnt have to pay 
interest on the loan.
Miss J complained to Halifax and asked it to refund the interest she had paid. Halifax said 
that Miss J had opted out of paper statements when she entered into the loan agreement. It 
said it had issued annual statements through her online banking and that they were available 
to view through its app or desktop online banking facility. It didnt agree to refund the interest 
which had been applied to the loan.
But Halifax acknowledged that Miss J couldnt see the statements through its mobile site and 
paid her compensation of £100 for the inconvenience of this.
Miss J wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator didnt think Halifax needed to do anything. But Miss J didnt agree and asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of Miss Js loan agreement. It says that, by entering into the agreement, 
Miss J was choosing for the servicing of her loan to be online. Further details about this were 
provided in the terms and conditions, which Miss J agreed to when she took out the loan.
The terms and conditions confirm that annual statements will be provided in paperless 
format. So I dont think Halifax did anything wrong by not sending paper statements.
Im satisfied that annual statements were produced by Halifax and were available to Miss J 
in electronic format. But Miss J said she couldnt view them from the web browser on her 
phone and she didnt want to download the app. While the complaint was being looked at by 
our Investigator, Miss J tried selecting the desktop website while using the web browser on 
her phone. She confirmed that she was able to view the statements when she did this. So 
Im satisfied that the statements were accessible to Miss J, albeit she had to take this further 
step of requesting the desktop website when using the browser on her phone.
Miss J says that Halifax must have fixed the issue since she raised her complaint, as she 
wasnt able to access the desktop site from her mobile phone before. I havent seen any 
evidence of this. So Im not able to conclude that Halifax has changed something which 
means its now possible for Miss J to view her statements in this way and it wasnt possible 
before. 
In any event, I find that there were other options available to Miss J for her to view the 
statements. She could have used a desktop computer or downloaded the mobile app. Miss J 
says she doesnt want to use the app and thats her choice to make. But I dont think its 
unreasonable for this to be one of the ways in which Halifax made the statements available 
to her, particularly as its an online account. 
I also note that the terms and conditions of the account say that its Miss Js responsibility to 
ensure her computer or mobile device meets any reasonable requirements Halifax may set. I 
understand that using the web browser on her phone is Miss Js preferred method of viewing 
the statements. But I dont find it to be Halifaxs fault that she wasnt able to do this until 
recently when she selected the desktop version of the site. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Halifax to suggest she used a desktop computer or the mobile app as 
alternatives. 
Miss J says that Halifax only told her to download the app when she made it aware of the 
problems she was having. I dont think its unreasonable that Halifax didnt suggest using the 
app before as it didnt know that Miss J couldnt view the statements by her preferred 
method.
Miss J says she didnt receive any other communications from Halifax about the loan until 
September 2021, when she received an email to her personal email address telling her that 
her annual statement was ready to view. Under the terms and conditions of the account, the 
default position was that all correspondence other than annual statements would be sent 
through the post. Miss Js correspondence preference was changed to online in February 
2020. 
The annual statements were produced in September each year. So any letters about the 
statements for 2018 and 2019 should have been sent to Miss J through the post. Any letter 
about the statement for 2020 should have been sent electronically. Miss J says she didnt 
receive anything before September 2021. I dont doubt what she says. But Im satisfied from 
the evidence Ive seen that a letter was generated in September each year, on the statement 
date. I havent seen anything which explains why Miss J didnt receive these letters, but I 
cant safely conclude that they werent sent by Halifax. And, I note that Miss J didnt bring 
her complaint until 2021, so Halifax didnt have the opportunity to re-send the letters or do 
anything else earlier. 
In conclusion, I find that Halifax provided statements in line with Miss Js loan agreement 
and I think it responded to her complaint fairly. I know Miss J feels strongly about this 
complaint and Im sorry to disappoint her. But I dont think Halifax needs to do any more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman