DRN-2443798
The complaint
Mr P complains that despite agreeing a payment arrangement with Moorcroft Debt Recovery
Limited (Moorcroft) his credit card was still closed, defaulted and sold to a third party.
What happened
My initial conclusions regarding Mr Ps complaint are set out in my provisional decision. In 
my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. I 
said: 
What happened
Mr P had a credit card with a lender (N) that fell into arrears. In June 2017 N appointed
Moorcroft to contact Mr P and try to arrange repayment of the outstanding balance.
Moorcroft contacted Mr P and sent him letters that said agreeing a payment arrangement
would mean his account wouldnt be defaulted. On 25 September 2018 Mr P agreed a
payment arrangement. On 27 September 2018 Moorcroft wrote to confirm it had agreed a
payment arrangement of £3.27 a month. The first payment was due on 25 October 2018.
On 23 October 2018 N closed Mr Ps account and sold it to a third party. The third party
reported a default date of 24 October 2018 on Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P complained and Moorcroft responded on 24 September 2019 but didnt agree it had
made an error. Moorcroft said it was Ns decision to close and default Mr Ps account and
referred him back to it to raise his concerns.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought
Moorcroft had dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly. Mr P asked to appeal, so his complaint has
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Mr Ps complaint, Moorcroft says the decision to default and close the credit
card was down to N, the lender. Moorcroft has also said that it was acting on Ns behalf
when it contacted Mr P to discuss a payment arrangement.
I note Mr Ps concerns that Moorcroft said he could avoid a default by agreeing a payment
arrangement. Industry guidance says that a default shouldnt be applied if a payment
arrangement is agreed and maintained. So I agree with Mr P that he had a reasonable
expectation that the account would remain open whilst a payment arrangement was being
maintained.
The issue here is that Moorcroft was acting on behalf of N, the lender. Whilst Moorcroft was
acting to try and agree repayment of the debt, it was ultimately up to N to decide whether to
close the account and sell it to a third party. I understand Mr P feels Moorcroft
misrepresented its ability to agree a payment arrangement, but Im satisfied it acted in good
faith and that, in September 2018, it was unaware that his account would be closed and
sold. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I havent found that Moorcroft misled him.
I also think its reasonable to note that the first instalment under the payment arrangement
was due on 25 October 2018 but it wasnt received by Moorcroft until 26 October 2018, a
day late. The industry guidance doesnt say that the lender has to give additional time if a
payment due under a payment arrangement isnt received by the agreed date. So whilst I
agree that Mr P did have a payment arrangement in place, Im satisfied the evidence Ive
seen indicates he didnt make the first payment on time. As a result, I think its reasonable to
say the payment arrangement would have failed.
I agree that the timing of the decisions to close and default the account were unclear. But
those decisions were made by N and are the subject of another complaint. In this case, Im
only looking at Moorcrofts actions.
I havent found that Moorcroft treated Mr P unfairly or made an error. When it discussed the
payment arrangement with Mr P in September 2018 it was acting on the instructions it had
from N. Moorcroft wasnt involved in the subsequent decision to close and sell Mr Ps
account to a third party. Im satisfied that the offer to enter a payment arrangement was
made in good faith and in line with the instructions Moorcroft had. As I havent found that
Moorcroft made a mistake or misled Mr P, I dont intend to tell it to take any further action.
As Ive reached my decision on different grounds to the investigator, both Mr P and
Moorcroft have the opportunity to respond with any additional comments or information they
want me to take into account before I make my final decision.
I asked Mr P and Moorcroft to respond with any additional comments or information they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Moorcroft responded and said that any decision to default Mr Ps account was taken by the 
lender (N). Mr P responded and said the issues raised were linked with his complaint about 
N and he feels they should have been looked at as one case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P responded to say both his cases were linked and that dividing his complaints didnt 
make sense. I take Mr Ps point, but Moorcroft and N are different businesses. As a service, 
we cant look at a complaint about two businesses actions under one case. We have to split 
the complaint. But Id like to assure Mr P that I am fully aware of the circumstances of both 
his cases and understand that the issues raised are closely linked. 
Mr P didnt provide any other new points or comments for me to consider and Moorcroft 
didnt send any new information. Ive reconsidered all the available evidence but I havent 
been persuaded to change my decision.
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman